ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 31st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: France [[Ferry]] Horvat, Rudolf Petan, Miran Ptrč, Jakob Presječnik by 2 p.m., Anton Rop and Mrs Majda Shirca. We move on to the 16th A-point of the agenda - this is to the defence of the proposal for a decision on the breakdown of the legal referendum on the law on amendments and additions to the law on the property reshaping of insurance companies. The draft decree was submitted to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee to Mr Bojan Starman for further explanation of the motion for a decree. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'd like to say hello. At its 31st urgent meeting, on 21.9.2007, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the request of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia to call for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Change of Insurance and on the basis of 169a. Article 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the law amending and supplementing the law on the property conversion of insurance undertakings and proposing it to the National Assembly for admission. Since the decree is short, I would read it again if we knew what it looked like. On the basis of the request of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia received by the National Assembly on 18 September 2007, a legislative referendum on the validation of the law on amendments and additions to the law on the property transformation of insurance undertakings adopted by the National Assembly on 11 September 2007 shall be held. Article 2(2) The question raised at the referendum is: Are you in favour of implementing the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Property Change of Insurance, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at its meeting on 11 September 2007? Article 3, for the day of the referendum invitation to tender, the deadlines for the tasks necessary for the referendum shall be 28 September 2007. Article 4. The referendum shall be held on Sunday, 11 November 2007. Point five. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee proposes that the National Assembly adopt this decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u3	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to explain the additional opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As you are aware, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia adopted on 18.9.2007 a request for a call for a subsequent legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Change of Insurance - ZLPZ1A. Let me first speak a few sentences about the purposes that led the government in the drafting of the law. With a view to achieving the objective of economic and social reforms and with a view to increasing prosperity in Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision at its 84th meeting in order to take measures to privatise and develop the financial system, confirming a proposal for a way of withdrawing the country from companies where the state is the indirect owner of the capital company or the compensation company. In order to achieve the objective of successful privatisation of the Triglav Insurance Company and to implement that Decision, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed to the National Assembly the adoption of the amendment to the Law on the Property Transformation of Insurance Companies, which was also adopted by the National Assembly. The legal regulation of the issue of the Triglav Insurance Company has already tried to find two finance ministers, my predecessors, but they have not submitted the final solutions to the legislative procedure. Why? This was also verified by this Commission, which, on behalf of the Government for the Government, worked on the implementation of this project. The source of the law proposed by the Government and adopted by this National Assembly were, in the conclusions of this advisory group to complete the ownership of the Insurance Company Triglav, that the identification of natural persons eligible for the work of the unspecified capital of the insurance undertaking was not possible. The Advisory Group has substantiated this finding and thus confirmed the opinion of my predecessors in the following way: the inability and duration of the execution of more than 750 thousand individual eligibility procedures by the fact that, due to time distance, proof of eligibility has been made difficult, with the desire to avoid long-term judicial proceedings, which would probably follow decisions on the disqualification of an individual to a share, and finally by the fact that the extent of entitlement of the individual beneficiary would not justify the costs of the procedure, since the costs of the procedure would exceed the expected value of the share obtained by the individual beneficiary - a natural person in this way. The law adopted by the National Assembly therefore follows the objectives of privatisation as set out in the report of the Advisory Group. These objectives are to identify known owners, which will enable the efficient management of the insurance undertaking and the establishment of such a ownership structure that will work towards the long-term development of the insurance undertaking. The Advisory Group recommended that Insurance Company Triglav maintain the influence of the State and legal persons of public law on the management of the insurance undertaking and ensure that the benefits of the capital of the insurance undertaking corresponding to the shares of those insured and natural persons will be enjoyed in the undeclared capital of the insurance undertaking by such a circle of beneficiaries, which will correspond as much as possible to the large proportion of insured persons held by the insurance undertaking or its legal predecessors in 1990. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Property Conversion of Insurance Companies fully follows these objectives as it allows capital company to carry out this role. Thus, as already mentioned in the introduction, the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, on 18.9.2007, adopted an application for the invitation to tender for the subsequent legislative referendum on the newly submitted law on changes and additions to the law on the property transformation of insurance undertakings. The proposal for a decree on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum was decided by the home working body on 21.9. This is the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The Committee, as we have already heard, suggests that the date of the referendum should be 28.9.2007. The voting day shall be 11 November 2007. Allow me to explain the Government's opinion on the proposal for a legislative referendum. We agree with the above-mentioned proposals on the dates, since the integration of the decision on the referendum issue of the Council of State with a possible - I stress - in the second round of presidential elections makes sense and is in line with the principle of economics. In line with this, we support the proposal for a resolution on the call for a follow-up legislative referendum, as proposed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u5	Thank you, Minister. Before we go to the debate, I would like to remind you that the subject of the debate, or the item on the agenda, is not law, is not the content of the law. That it is not the content of the referendum question. Because the referendum question was set by the Council of State. There is also no debate on the motives behind the decision taken by the Council of State for the referendum. In fact, it is only possible to discuss the dates for the referendum and the implementation of the referendum. And if anyone thinks that the postponement of the law or the rejection of the law could have counter-constitutional consequences and would have given such a proposal to the National Assembly, he could have discussed it. Otherwise, I would ask you to stick to the usual practice, to talk about the agenda. As long as there are derogations, I'll alert the speaker and ask him to stick to the agenda. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Squeakle, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go. Just please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u6	President, I fully agree with your procedural statement. The only thing I don't understand is why you introduced her after she was Minister. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u7	Procedural proposal. Please, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u8	My procedural proposal that, according to what you have said, the Minister should be warned that he did not follow the content of the agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u9	That's not a suggestion. I'm not putting him to the vote. I'm giving the word to Jacob the Presbyterian. [[He's not here.]] He's quitting. Mr Matej Lahovnik will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u10	Thank you very much. According to the College's address, it is right to say that in our Group, we really believe that the most important thing is that this referendum should be announced on the day when we will also have presidential elections in Slovenia. Because we estimate that in this way we will save about two and a half million euros. We believe that it is most rational that in such cases the referendum call be combined with the elections that have already been announced or with the elections that are expected to take place as soon as possible sometime on 11 November or when the second round of presidential elections will take place. While it is estimated that it would be possible to do something different. Therefore, I myself, as Head of the Zares Group last week, took the initiative to decide at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly that a referendum would be held on the day of the first round of presidential elections. But since they're assessing that we're not missing out on the second round and it's definitely gonna be on the table, that's also a rational option. By reducing the costs of the administration of the state administration. We therefore support such a decision in principle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u12	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, we looked at the archives of the National Assembly and the records of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the search for the debt of creditors when we addressed this referendum issue. We are convinced, or we know, and from our review follows that whenever a country appears as a creditor and as a debtor of a citizen or citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, this relationship is extremely clear. It says, "The citizen has to pay." Stop. It doesn't matter how this comes about. But the fact is, every time in these relations, the citizen will have to pay. This time the situation is different. The Ministry tells us, the Ministry tells us [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u13	Mr Pece, I think I've been understanding enough about the introductory request to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u14	Mr President, you've made yourself clear, but I personally assessed that the right you granted to the Minister as a guest [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u15	Your assessment, Mr. Pache, is not decisive here. Please stick to the agenda. Second warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u16	I do not think it is appropriate that you allow the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to discuss the content, but not the Members and Members. But let's leave it to others to judge. From this title, I can only say that, within the framework of the National Party, we agree that the days for holding the referendum are doubling or that they are held at the same time as other electoral acts - in our case, presidential elections. However, I would like to point out that in all of this we also feel that the costs involved are exaggerated in a number of cases. In fact, it is a macro-economic transfer or transfer selection. From this title - as we say - we will support the act ourselves. Once again, with regret, I can only say that there are different rules in force in this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Žnidaršič will present the position or Mr Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'll stick to the warning from the introduction, not to talk about the law, because it's not the subject of today's debate either. But the subject of the debate is only a decree that discusses the question of what it will be and when it will be called for and when it will be voted on. In the DeSUS Group, we will support this legitimate right to vote. We expect that the result of the referendum call will be the same as the candidate of the State Council, that people will respond with a "no" for a simple reason, because it creates an impression that then 750,000 people will receive a given 1,000 and a few euros. The result is more or less expected. But what and how we will act in convincing people will only be the subject of debate after this decision is adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! Today we are talking about the Decree calling for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Transformation of Insurance. We are talking about the call for a confirmation referendum, which means that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Change Act of 11 September 2007 would not apply in the event of confirmation. We are pleased in the Slovenian Democratic Party somewhere that the date for November 11, 2007 has been announced, because there is somehow some possibility of a second round of presidential elections, so that we can avoid unnecessary additional costs for the referendum. We'll support the decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In order not to violate the rules laid down by Mr President, the following would be brief. All the conditions required by the Law on Referendum and the Human Initiative for the Adoption of Decisions are fulfilled. This was also found by the Legal and Legal Service. The proposer or entitled to request a referendum shall be the State Council. This is a decision he made. He adopted it within the necessary time frame and prepared a referendum question which, following amendments and additions to the referendum law, which had abolished the previous legislative referendum, is only possible. We also support the proposal to hold a referendum on 11 November in the Social Democrats Group. It is said, together with a possible second round of presidential elections, that elections will be held in this way one day, if there is a second round, and a referendum on this issue, providing third-party costs, not entirely for the implementation of the referendum. With regard to the procedure that has been followed in the State Council, of course, let me just say that the proposal that has been put forward follows the definitions that have been given in the course of the debate and which were not adopted by the State Assembly in the final decision. This will be decided by citizens and citizens. Whatever their will is, the outcome will be that of the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Milan Petek will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u24	Nice greetings to the president, colleagues, colleagues! May I, as the one representing the position of the LDS Club of Members, also express my disagreement that the President of the National Assembly has limited us the possibility of discussion. But he didn't do it with Vlad or Minister Bajuk. I think the relationship to both sides should be the same. But that's the way it is. I therefore express only publicly that we do not agree with this procedure. There is no reservation in our club and no dilemma to believe that we clearly and loudly say that we agree with the date of the call or referendum and that we agree, of course, with the content of the question raised by the referendum to the Slovenian public. In fact, we have also stressed this in our previous discussions. This resulted in a call for a referendum, which we support in the parliamentary club. However, the decision of the State Council at the request of the invitation to tender is understood as a logical consequence of the way in which the ruling coalition did work, which did not want to hear the opposite arguments. Once again, the House Club, so I support all procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u26	Mr President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we agree with the proposed date. This is 11.11.2007 for the referendum. By pooling the elections in the possible second round of presidential elections and holding the referendum, the high costs required to carry out the referendum will be reduced and public spending will be streamlined. At the request of the State Council, the National Assembly must call for a referendum. This is the provision of the Constitution, the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative and also the Rules of Procedure, which we respect in the New Slovenia Group. We'll support the decree. We sincerely hope that the initiative to call for a referendum is not yet one of the attempts to retain the final property transformation of the Triglav Insurance Company and that citizens and citizens will decide for the benefit of the people of Slovenia. That's, uh, supported the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u27	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Rudi Veršnik, would you like to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Bogdan Barovich, please! You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u28	Thank you. The referendum on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, yes, I will hold on very much. Unfortunately, the referendum does. The referendum is due to the will of the coalition because it has not adopted the veto of the State Council. That's why it's nice, great that it's 11/11, because there's gonna be a little less cost. But there'll be a few too many because you don't have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Willie Rezman, would you like to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Milan Squeakle. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The decree is very clear. In four elements, he tells a key story. We are calling for a referendum on the basis of the request of the Council of State. The Council of State has exercised its constitutional right after the National Assembly has not voted or reconfirmed a bad law that, of course, they also use an extreme opportunity and require a legislative referendum. A legislative referendum on a law that changes some law. However, this law, which was adopted in the previous term by the National Assembly, has properly regulated the transformation of the Triglav Insurance Company, according to the Council of State. The Council of State has warned us several times in the debate at the Committee on Finance. In the debate after we received their proposal for veto, however, the ears of the coalitions were deaf. Therefore, the extreme possibility that we have, through the request of the State Council as the National Assembly, to decide on a decision with a question which, according to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, is very clear: Is it right, then, to enforce a bad law? It's a good thing they're gonna start running for this referendum by the end of the week. This is only a week after the campaign for the first round of presidential elections began. Not because the Presidential candidates should make a lot of decisions on this issue. But because the people who will choose this or that presidential candidate and the people who will most likely decide in the second round of presidential elections at the same time to enforce a bad law will in fact decide whether it is right. I quote the minister: "This is how the state withdraws from the economy." I would like to point out, I quote the Minister: "The Council of State, in accordance with its request, considers it wrong to withdraw from the economy in this way." Why? Because a country with a way of withdrawing from the economy first supports, it nationalises the entitlements of 750 000 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u31	Mr. Squeakle [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u32	I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u33	Please stick to the agenda. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u34	I adhere to the demands of the State Council and, of course, stick to this issue and to the substantive reasons why the Council of State has defined this requirement. So, in time before [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u35	Mr. Squeakle, please. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u36	Before 11 November, we will be able to explain very carefully to the people behind this referendum issue in two, three weeks between the first and the second rounds. [[...]] But I think the answer, of course, is very simple. If, of course, people answer yes to enforce this law [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u37	Mr. Squeakl, you will have one month to discuss all these content at the pre-election time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u38	Mr President, Minister of Finance [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u39	Who are not on the agenda now, don't act like one. [[...]] Well, you're a senior. Mrs. Žginer Tavš, she's not [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u40	Mr. President, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u41	Mr. Aleš Gulič, he's not here.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u42	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u43	I took your microphone. Mr. Squeakle, have a seat.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u44	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u45	Mr. Victory Jelinčič, the government has no word [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u46	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u47	I conclude the general debate and give the floor to Mr Squill for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. President, thank you so much for taking my word. However, I must warn you that you did not act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You didn't give me the first or second warning. You didn't say you'd take my word for it, but you took my word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u49	Misuse of the Rules of Procedure. Again, which I'm already used to on your side. As no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, the assembly will decide on the proposal for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of Insurance in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the second item of the agenda or at the latest at 18.20. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the day-to-day basis - another defense proposal for a law on liability companies. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Since there is not yet a government representative, I ask - is he on his way - are we waiting or who wants us to wait for a government representative? Yeah. Then I interrupt the session in 10 minutes and we'll resume in 10 minutes. That's 9:40.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u50	We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly by hearing 4. Agenda items - Proposal for a Law on Risk Capital Companies. I give my word to the government representative, mag. Tomaž Jeršić, State Secretary for Explanation of the Bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u51	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! Let me introduce in a few words the Risk Capital Society Act. As we know, venture capital is an extremely important source of finance for small and medium-sized enterprises. Providing these relevant financial resources is one of the random obstacles to the better and faster development of these companies. Therefore, one of the forms of financing for these new companies is venture capital, which represents the equity financing of technological enterprises which, due to a rapid and new start, need these funds quickly and are generally not available on the market. As we know, classical debt financing instruments still prevail in Slovenia. The importance and scope of equity financing such as venture capital remains relatively modest. We are on the European level and on the Central European scale at the bottom of the scale, given the size of our venture capital investments. If capital is provided through specialised financial institutions, it can also mean a source of knowledge as to how it is economic and legal to realize entrepreneurial ideas. Risk capital companies may also provide assistance in carrying out or consulting undertakings with regard to the realisation of an entrepreneurial idea. Later, they must withdraw from the company by selling their equity. The basic objectives of the venture capital company law are to define risk capital and concepts related to equity financing for these companies and to define risk capital companies in a legal and legal way. The Risk Capital Companies Act follows the definition of venture capital by the European Commission and the European venture capital association. The law provides that companies of venture capital would be an economic company. As regards the management of venture capital companies, it applies the principle of the external management of venture capital companies. The company of venture capital represents, leads and carries out all its business by another economic company. This is due to the greater transparency of the venture capital company’s business, which, in the sense of both the investor and the supervision of the venture capital company. The law provides for a minimum value of equity financing with a capital risk of EUR 50 000. Furthermore, a venture capital company has to spend part of its assets, which is 50% of its assets, on minimum investment in capital risk. Further 50% of its assets must be allocated by the venture capital company to private equity investments or to loans to companies in which it is participating in venture capital. Other funds may be made available to the company in accordance with Article 6 of the new law. In its time and initial stage of business, the company must achieve a precise investment structure. In the first year, it is free of these restrictions. In the future, however, legislation must be adhered to. One more time at the end. The primary objective of venture capital companies is to ensure: faster, transparent and rapid financing of companies that start their business and continue their business with new technological developments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u52	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask Vice-President William Rezman to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Secretary of State presented the content of the law, which was discussed by the mother's working body. So it's the Committee on the Economy. It should be said that the representatives of the Ministry have also participated in this debate with the Minister himself. Representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and the Legal and Legislative Service also participated, which had some views or comments on the original text proposed by the Government. It has to be said that the concerns which have been identified in the views of the Legal and Legislative Services with the amendments proposed by SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS have been rectified and that the Legal and Legal Service with the amendments has been satisfied. The only thing that was not taken into account by the legislative and legal services proposals was language corrections or the application of foreign terms rather than domestic expressions. When Mr Minister explained why, this was also taken into account. There was also some debate as to whether it was right that limited venture capital companies were exclusively domestically owned and established in the Republic of Slovenia. But that's what the minister was defending, too, that position. So the rest is unchanged. The amendments proposed by the coalition groups were adopted. They have become an integral part of the bill that is now under consideration. The National Assembly has endorsed such a bill with amendments - pardon - the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u54	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Rezman, we could go right back. You have the floor to present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u55	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. I'm not gonna spend a lot of words. The Risk Capital Companies Act is based on the knowledge that money for investments is sufficient to be properly collected and that such centralised funds are intended to be implemented without financial support. It is therefore a matter of providing capital and resources so that such ideas can be realized. In the last period, there has also been a whole species in our country in this area - this is in the economic field - a novelty. And venture capital companies are one such novelty that citizens and citizens or citizens will become familiar with. However, it must be said that this law will not tangy citizens and citizens so directly. But those who are more educated in economics. So those we also call qualified investors or professional investors, which will also be made possible by restrictions such as €50,000, which represent a threshold for entering a venture capital company. The ambition of the proposer is to make it possible to set up, regulate, status and everything else with regard to venture capital companies by establishing or adopting this law and to collect free funds that could be earmarked for investments. In particular, these funds are intended for the investments of those who themselves cannot provide either sufficient knowledge or sufficient capital. It is mainly about supporting small and medium-sized enterprises in this way. Yesterday, a threshold is set for venture capital companies. Since the risks are high, because it is in fact an exclusive motive to take advantage of tax reliefs and maximize profits, it is therefore expected that those who specialize in this type of business will be involved. So for business in principle with financial capital. Usual citizens are likely to be less involved unless citizens are then involved in companies that will be established with this capital or recapitalised with this capital that will be raised in venture capital companies. Risk capital is essentially colourless. Or in other words. It is not about focusing on the individual sector, on the individual service, on the individual goods to be offered on the market. But it's simply about maximizing the capital invested. Therefore, in order to increase the value that is expected to be faster than usual or on average on a given market. Foreign experience in this is relatively good. We promise that these experiences of others will be repeated with us. This means that for small and medium-sized enterprises there should be more opportunities and more capital to enable new investments in order to enable new jobs and thus economic growth and growth in general prosperity. This is also the ambition of the Desus Group. That is why all four members of the DeSUS will also support this proposal for a venture capital company law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u56	Thank you. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Honorable representatives of the government! In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we are aware of the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises for the further accelerated development of Slovenia. Slovenia has limited spatial, human resources and financial resources on the one hand. On the other hand, highly trained human resources potential and tradition, both in the entrepreneurial environment and in university and scientific institutions. All of this can, together with Slovenian flexibility and flexibility, constitute an exceptional basis for competitive advantage and opportunity in the European Community's most developed countries in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises, where the most entrepreneurial ideas and innovations are emerging, whose applications can be highly value-added products. However, applications are not possible without adequate financial resources, which are generally more difficult to access for small and medium-sized enterprises compared to larger companies. In Slovenia, so far there has been no real listening. Above all, there have been no concrete actions to establish systemic legislation that would encourage the financing of certain risk but highly profitable venture capital projects. To this end, the ratio of the current venture capital investment to GDP, where Slovenia is in an enviable last-minute place between 22 European countries, is shown. For Slovenia there is only Croatia. In addition to the most developed countries, there are Romania, Hungary, Bulgaria, Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and the Baltic States. This problem was also recognized by the coalition, which, before the start of its mandate, entered into a coalition contract to promote an improvement of the legal system framework for small and medium-sized enterprises and the appropriate development of institutions to which they must support, including venture capital funds. Small and medium-sized enterprises therefore need financial resources to realize risky entrepreneurial ideas. Most often, financial resources are provided by entrepreneurs themselves from their savings, but not enough capital needs. They are therefore also looking for funding sources in the external environment on the market. In doing so, they are faced with the difficulty of not being able to provide debt sources of financing due to high risks. Providing adequate financial resources is certainly a key obstacle to the better and faster development of the small and medium-sized enterprises segment. The proposal for a venture capital company law follows a solution to this problem by legally identifying venture capital companies by offering an appropriate legal organisational framework for the accumulation and distribution of free financial assets in the form of risk capital to an economic company with which securities are not traded in an organised market. To ensure that the company's activity is consistent with the purpose of venture capital companies, which means that it will focus primarily on the transfer, management and disposal of venture capital. In order to ensure that the venture capital company invests the bulk of its assets in the form of venture capital and to ensure adequate control over the venture capital company. In order to ensure that the venture capital company complies with the provisions of the law in particular with regard to the management of activities and the imposition of funds. The supervision of the venture capital company will not be carried out in order to protect investors. It is a wish that Slovenian venture capital does not go abroad. But to create a systemic legal basis, this capital will remain in Slovenia and will be applied to Slovenian risky investments that can have major multiplier effects both on economic development and on the growth of gross social product as well as on the possibility of additional employment. We will certainly support the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u58	Thank you. Mag. Milan M. Cwickl will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u59	Good afternoon to the government's representative! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will not oppose the proposal for a law on venture capital companies. It is an attempt by the Government to raise Slovenia on this famous scale, where Slovenia is very low in the ratio of venture capital investment to GDP. The analysis shows that there are two possible ways to do this. It is one to lay down a legal organisational framework for the accumulation of free resources. Others are to provide for tax reliefs. Government, Ministry of Economy - I stress - the Ministry of Economy is proposing this law. Although this is about companies that operate substantively in funding transactions. The Ministry of Economy has decided to propose a law which legally, organisationally and formally allows the creation of such companies. Or, for economic reasons, there will be the creation of such companies and whether Slovenia will rise on this scale, depending on whether we have or do not have the necessary tax exemptions. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not increase tax reliefs during its almost three-year term. In fact, it has reduced tax relief. This is also reflected in data from public finances from various tax sources. Above all, there is a very high rise in corporate income tax. So, after the government does not regulate the corresponding tax reliefs - the only tax relief that has actually been maintained is a tax relief for investment in research and development - it tries to regulate this area by proposing a law on venture capital companies. However, when we walk over the law, we see that the law does not give any encouragement, and the law is particularly formalistic. It will refer to the creation of a new team at the Ministry, which, I do not know, will either give or not give consent to the creation of venture capital companies under a different programme. The Group of Social Democrats does not oppose this path. However, it estimates that these will not be the main reasons for a sudden increase in Slovenia's share of venture capital and GDP investments to rise. If you look at the table on page 7 of the Act, you will see that there are two groups of European Union countries at the summit. We have completely at the top of Great Britain, which does not even have such a law. He doesn't even have that kind of marriage. But of course it has international accounting standards and has financial market rules with appropriate tax incentives that encourage such investments. And another group of countries, Sweden, Finland, the Scandinavian countries, which have some kind of a nice organisational form of this. However, as key tax incentives for so-called investments in the creation of high added value. These tax investments in creating high added value encourage the Scandinavian countries with a very large share of public funds, public funds in financing the environment to create high added value. That is to say, to create in particular this in connection with the implementation of research developments in the economy. In Finland, in Sweden this share is 3.5% of the gross domestic product, in Slovenia this remains less than 0.7% or 5 times less in all three years of the government's mandate. So this law will provide a legal formal organisational framework, a necessary condition. However, there will be insufficient conditions for such increases to take place [[...]] [[Sign for the end of the debate]] We therefore estimate that the law will not fully meet the high expectations of the Government, which is now leading Slovenia, and will have to fix this in the next term. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u60	Thank you. Mr Martin Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u61	Nicely greeted! Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that the interdependence of all citizens in our country is particularly important because of the small scale of the economy. The economic policy of the country must therefore provide an opportunity to decompose, general, innovative environment, which can deliver faster development by generating new ideas and a rapid response to changes in the narrower and wider economic environment. Enterprise-friendly governance must thus enable the environment to care for it, to care for it carefully and to provide the basis for the future. The proposal for a venture capital company law will certainly help significantly in this regard. Not only that, by adopting the proposal of the law, Slovenia will be able to become tax and infrastructureally interesting for companies operated by venture capital funds. The profit from the risk investments of venture capital companies to be entered in the Register of the Ministry of the Economy will not be taxed. The same applies to legal persons who will invest money in these companies. This makes Slovenia competitive with others in developing Europe. The main solutions to the law relate to the definition of venture capital, which is important for the EU's assets that could be sought by a venture capital company. The law does not determine which sectors are suitable for investments in venture capital companies, as they will themselves seek to maximize their return. In order to ensure sufficient contractual freedom, it is envisaged that companies of venture capital of an economic company will be in the status legal form of a double company, d.o.o.-ji, d.d.-ji or a parent company of shares. In particular, the interests of investors shall be taken into account. The company of venture capital represents, leads and carries out all its operations by another economic company, thereby ensuring greater transparency of business. The seat and management must be in Slovenia. The minimum value of investor participation in a venture capital company of EUR 50 000 is proposed. However, the venture capital company must allocate 50% of its assets to investments in small and medium-sized enterprises. A further 30% of its assets must be allocated by the venture capital company to private equity investments or loans to companies in which it is participating in venture capital. The Ministry of Economy is responsible for monitoring the legality of the operation of the venture capital company. In the New Slovenia Group, we are working to integrate all segments of social development that have a significant impact on the growth of general prosperity into a single and dynamic national economy. Here we see a special advantage for small and medium-sized enterprises, which need to be able to make business easier and encourage them to perform in the enlarged economic area. In particular, we will take care of the development of craft companies and independent entrepreneurs, which should activate the business capabilities of citizens. In the proposed law, we see the possibility of financing the boldest, most risky business ideas that will in practice be possible only if we adopt a proposal for a law. We will support him in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u62	Thank you. Mr Kristijan Janc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u63	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In particular, medium and small enterprises often face difficulties in financing their activities, particularly when it comes to the development or expansion of the company's production or market. Financing this with equity or debt capital is often very difficult. In addition to financing the development or expansion of the company itself, there are also difficulties in providing start-up capital at/or after the establishment of the company. The fact is that small and medium-sized enterprises are extremely important for the development of the Slovenian economy. We have quite a few companies that have developed successfully in recent years and have a very important role in providing employment in a particular local environment in addition to contributing to the economic development of Slovenia. Despite the success of individual companies, it is clear that the central start-up and development of small and medium-sized enterprises is far from what everyone would like. The proposed law has been created and is considered to be an important source of financing for small and medium-sized enterprises in order to regulate venture capital. Risk capital is directly intended for the development of the company and plays an important role in this respect compared to private equity. Slovenia is far behind other European countries in the field of venture capital. The draft law or its introductory part also mentions a study which shows that Slovenia is, according to the size of the risk capital in the gross domestic product, on the tail of European countries. If a comparison is made with Finland, located at the 3rd place of the mentioned scale, we can find that Finland has as many as twenty times the amount of GDP allocated to venture capital. The adoption of legislation is therefore necessary for the faster development of medium- and small-sized enterprises. With the proposed solutions to the law, we expect the venture capital market to grow and, of course, encourage the establishment and activities of venture capital companies. The law lays down the legal organisational form for the collection of funds intended to take the form of venture capital into those companies whose securities are not placed on the labour market. In our view, the law regulates venture capital in an appropriate manner, ensures the operation of venture capital companies in accordance with the purpose of their establishment, while also protecting investors with the envisaged supervision. As has already been said, the development of these small and medium-sized enterprises is of paramount importance for Slovenia. Above all, in areas where large systems have collapsed and left behind many unemployed and associated social crises during the transition, it is essential to ensure the establishment of new companies that will contribute to the additional employment and development of these areas. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that this law will also help to develop small and medium-sized enterprises. Of course, this is not to be forgotten the role these companies play in the more equitable regional development of Slovenia. Above all, the establishment and development of high-level enterprises, which also require an educated workforce, greatly contributes to a more equitable and equitable development of areas. The most difficult thing to do is to keep a skilled workforce in a specific remote environment from the center in Slovenia, allowing not only economic development but also general development of the area. Of course, this problem is also faced by the whole of Slovenia, as capable young people and at increasingly open borders think a lot about working in other European countries where they have better conditions for earning and professional development. We know from experience that SMEs are primarily those that are flexible enough to adapt to the needs of the market and to introduce new technologies. So they're development-oriented. It is our job to provide them with a funding framework, with which their competitors in other European countries are not the last to have. In anticipation of the positive effects of the proposed law, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will also support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u64	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled, 24.9.2007. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. I am opening an application for discussion on Article 2 and this amendment. There's no sign-in. I therefore conclude the debate on this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 51 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. I'm opening the application. There are no applications, so I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda or at the latest at 6.20 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Elimination of Consequences of Natural Accidents. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Janez Podobnik, Minister of the Environment. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u65	Good morning, good afternoon Members and Members of Parliament, Mr President! Allow me to briefly present the reasons for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters and to present three main sets of amendments. The Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters was adopted three years ago. It shall lay down the conditions and modalities for the use of resources from the State budget in the management of the consequences of natural disasters, as well as the conditions and manner in which they are obtained or allocated with a view to ensuring that the aid to the affected by natural disasters is maintained as soon as possible and also to the restoration of activities. The law also lays down the conditions and modalities for the use of State budget funds in addressing the consequences of agricultural damage caused by natural disasters. The law also regulates the allocation of State budget funds to address the consequences of natural disasters on matters in accordance with the principles laid down in the Treaty establishing the European Community on State aid granted in the event of natural disasters. The Treaty establishing the European Community gives the European Commission the power to allocate State aid resources, including those relating to the resolution of the consequences of natural disasters, to a more detailed procedure. Thus, last December a Regulation was adopted by the European Commission on the application of the provisions of the Treaty establishing the European Community to State aid to small and medium-sized enterprises engaged in the production of agricultural products and on the conditions and manner in which they are granted to remedy the consequences of agricultural damage caused by natural disasters. However, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the current law eliminates some inconsistencies with this Regulation of the European Commission. At the same time, we have addressed some minor shortcomings in the granting of state aid to address the consequences of natural disasters. The three main solutions are in this amendment to the law. The first is compliance with the Regulation of the European Commission, the second relates to the simplification of the procedure for obtaining State aid resources to remedy the consequences of agricultural damage and the third segment is the minimum amount of damage to the apartment for which State aid can be obtained. First, in short, with regard to compliance with the Regulation of the European Commission. We have five changes here. With a minimum amount of direct damage in agriculture where State aid resources may be allocated equal to 30% of the normal annual production for all areas of agricultural production, including those with limited possibilities for agricultural activity. Another solution in this package. With a compulsory 50% insurance and its amount, which must be provided by the holder of the agricultural holding in order to become eligible for State aid. Third change. With the maximum amount of State aid that an individual beneficiary may receive, the sum of the State aid insurance paid and the value of the agricultural product shall not exceed 80 % of the value of normal agricultural production or 90 % in areas with a limited possibility of agricultural activity. And the fourth. By prohibiting the cumulative collection of damage in agriculture over the years. This has so far been possible for perennial plants due to several successive phenomena of adverse weather conditions over a period of three years. In this context, there is also a solution that tackles the issue of the allocation of state aid to large enterprises. With these amendments and additions, one of the important objectives of agriculture policy in this area is to address the consequences of agricultural damage. This is, however, that insurance undertakings are also included to the greatest extent possible in eliminating the consequences of agricultural damage due to adverse weather conditions. The proposed solutions will encourage agricultural operators more significantly to approach the already established insurance scheme implemented by the Ministry responsible for agriculture, forestry and nutrition by co-financing the insurance premium for all agricultural crops and also for all adverse weather conditions, except for drought. With regard to the simplification of the procedure for obtaining State aid resources, I can only say that this will solve the reduction of administrative barriers to the allocation of State aid resources to remedy the consequences of damage to agriculture by assessing the damage caused by adverse weather conditions for each agricultural crop once and for all, regardless of whether agricultural production affects one or more adverse agricultural conditions during the growing period. The law also amends the lower threshold under which resources of the state budget are not allocated to address the consequences of a natural disaster in damaged dwellings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u66	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. I ask Mr Daniel Krivec to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u67	Honorable President, colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Minister! The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the Environment and Space, at its 13th urgent regular meeting on 21.9.2007, considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, which was sent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with a proposal to deal with it following an urgent procedure. Representatives of the proposed law, the Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly participated in the meeting of the Committee. In addition to the basic material, the Committee received written opinions from the Legislative and Legal Service, the Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. In the introductory explanation of the articles of the bill, the representative of the proposer, Minister of Environment and Space, Janez Podobnik, said that the proposed law eliminates discrepancies with European Community legislation and certain shortcomings which have been shown in the allocation of aid to remedy the consequences of agricultural damage. The proposal for amendments and additions simplify the procedures for granting State aid to remedy the consequences of agricultural damage. By combining the injury assessment procedure and the application procedure for State aid resources, and by assessing the damage caused by the adverse weather conditions for each agricultural crop only once before harvesting. The proposed amendments also amend the lower threshold under which no State budget allocation is made to address the consequences of a natural disaster on damaged dwellings. The Government is given the opportunity to set this threshold alone as 50% of the average value of the funds calculated under the individual disaster management programme as the average of all confirmed damage in the dwellings, if this is more favourable to the beneficiary than the current calculation based on 5% of the value of the new dwelling. It is envisaged that the proposed legal solutions for the recovery of agricultural damage will significantly reduce the burden on the state budget. Most of the means to remedy the consequences of the damage will be paid from insurance companies. The beneficiary will have to show at least 50% insurance for agricultural crops or will have to be included in the existing scheme of insurance premiums for agricultural crops. After examining the draft law under consideration, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly made certain comments to the article of the bill in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. In the context of the second reading of the draft law, the Committee on Environment and Space, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. In doing so, the Committee also adopted its amendments. Amendments by the SDS, New Slovenia, SLS and DeSUS to Articles 4, 5, 11, 19, 20, 22, 24 and 28 of the draft law adopted by the Committee on Environment and Space have been tabled in the bill. Following a discussion on the individual articles of the draft law, the Committee on the Environment and Space voted together after the discussion and the vote on the amendments in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on all articles of the draft law and adopted them. Subject to the amendments adopted in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents, which forms an integral part of this report of the Committee, is prepared. The Committee proposes that the law be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u68	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues! We're considering the law, which is actually, I'll say, unfortunately, the collectorship of events. And it's only right to deal with it. It would be right - such is the opinion of the Slovenian National Party - to accept it as a matter of urgency as envisaged. The reasons - as we have heard - are more or three of the most important. The first mentioned by the distinguished Minister is compliance with the European Union. Now, all people are very fond of pragmatism. We're being practical. I am pleased that we will harmonise it - honourable Mr Minister - and I also expect the Government to make good use of the European funds to help the affected at this very moment in Slovenia. However, I am particularly pleased to see in the law that has emerged - I think - at the beginning of the month of September, the 28th article, which at this moment, practice shows us very important. It is the validity of the provisions of this Act which apply to natural disasters which occurred before the entry into force of the law. If, or if, for them, the programme of consequences is adopted after the implementation of this law, I understand that, and this is a good article. Not just for now. Above all, it is an important second element highlighted by Mr Minister. So it's a simplification to get state aid. I hope that it will not only remain in words, articles and statements, but that this simplification in order to obtain state aid will be in practice this year, this second year, whenever necessary. As regards the establishment of a border for the acquisition of State aid, it is right for experts to assess and assess. We know that in such cases there are different cases. I'd like to remind you of the finishing or the thinking. In fact, we're having natural disasters. Most natural disasters are unpredictable. But I estimate that, say, this is a possible proposal, advice, a desire to be taken into account, such as drought. The drought is a natural disaster which, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, I believe to be foreseen, which is preventative - I do not think - now to be excluded from the law, but to be prepared. So that the melioration and other systems, the editing of watercourses, and so on, should be coordinated so that the drought does not affect as much as it has affected our beautiful Slovenia in the short term. I estimate that it is right that this law has been put in place following an urgent procedure to coordinate the three important content from which I hope that Slovenia - I hope - will take advantage of all that is itss and what belongs to it, that people will receive faster and simpler assistance from the State, those who are affected to make the borders reasonable. Last but not least, it's only right that we have a marriage. It is also true that human solidarity, the human heart, and the human attitude toward help work independently of the law. Maybe with the help of the marriage, it's so much easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u71	Dear Mr President, a respected minister with a colleague, a colleague and a colleague! Although we know from experience and few of them that almost every Slovenian family has already felt on its own the skin of a natural disaster, such or any other weather problem, we are always surprised. Nature always proves to us what she can and can strike here and now there. A raging storm destroys all that is on its way. The heat wave kills all the crops. The tower destroys everything it touches. The fact is that the operation of natural forces in our country is not limited to only part of the country, but more than 40% of the surface of Slovenia is exposed to these forces. In doing so, it is also necessary to take into account the relatively severely dispersed settlement and the fact that the main part of the country is farmed. Nevertheless, we needed too much time to start adopting modern environmental regulation. It's a water law. It's a space regulation law. The next coming is the building law, which will make an important contribution to regulating this area. Time captures are constantly and intensely burdening the state budget. That is why the law before us today will try to repair this area. According to the proposaler, certain provisions of the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents relating to the granting of State aid to remedy the consequences of damage, in particular in agriculture, are even inconsistent with the relevant Regulation of the European Commission and contrary to the guidelines of the European Community. Comparably, Member States in this area have systems to compensate for damage in the form of withdrawals from specific funds and insurance. In the area of state policy on natural disaster response, according to our assessment, the government is so certain that it will be eliminated in many ways by the law before us. There is a lack of a single strategy on effective preventive action, as well as addressing and mitigating the consequences of damage, because the payment of high compensation, while at the same time the inaction of the victims themselves, cannot be considered and always justified. Assuming that the frequency of adverse weather conditions continues to increase, the current solution is a significant overburden on the state budget and public resources. We agree that the solution offered by the proposal under consideration will give a greater impetus to the more active role of agricultural operators in the area of compensation in the event of natural disasters and thus relieve public finances, which is also one of the key objectives of agricultural policy. The bill provides that any farmer wishing to receive State aid for damage will have to cover at least half his crops. Thus, most of the funds to remedy the consequences of agricultural damage will be paid in the form of insurance. Insurance and agriculture will also play a more active role in this regard. The acquisition of State aid will continue to be possible through the inclusion in the already existing scheme of co-financing of agricultural crop insurance premiums by the Ministry of Agriculture. Positive in terms of reducing red tape, including the merger of the injury assessment procedure and the procedure for the application for the acquisition of funds, which means administrative obstacles, which have often meant too long a time-limit for actual aid and compensation. This will contribute to reducing the scope of the field damage assessment, which can be so much more thorough as damage will only be assessed once and before harvesting, no matter how often the crop will be affected by one or more adverse weather events during the vegetative period. The estimated damage will also be verified in the injury reporting process itself, which is more rational. For the purpose of viewing damage in the field should be in as real a valuation as possible, which is also the basis for the final assessment confirmed by the Government and the eligibility for the costs arising from this Title. The law is urgently needed and the Group of Members will fully support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u72	Thank you. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u73	Your Honor! Natural and other disasters resulting from negative human action on the environment are substantially changing, irrespective of the economic and other developments achieved. Indeed, there is an increasing potential for national security from the innovative use of renewable energy sources and by strengthening sustainable and co-natural development, we can reduce negative impacts on the environment. Slovenia must have comprehensive and coordinated measures that will successfully address the consequences of these threats. The Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters provides for the conditions and manner in which funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia can be used to remedy the consequences of natural disasters and the conditions and manner in which they are acquired and allocated. Assistance to victims of natural disasters must ensure that they stay as safely as possible and resume their activities if natural disasters cause damage to or damage to buildings, installations or land, or because of the consequences of a natural accident, endanger or prevent the use of goods due to damage to road or other infrastructure. The law also lays down the conditions and modalities for the use of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the conditions and modalities for the allocation of damage to agriculture due to natural disasters. The main amendments introduced by the proposal are, first of all, the harmonisation of the law with the Regulation of the Commission of the European Community, which provides for State aid to remedy the consequences of agricultural damage due to the adverse weather conditions which entered into force 5.1.2007. There is a lower pressure after payments of state aid, but more frequent adverse weather conditions. The aim is to ensure that insurance undertakings are included to the greatest extent possible in eliminating the consequences of agricultural damage. The State budget shall provide funds to remedy the consequences of damage in agriculture due to those adverse weather conditions which cannot be covered and those for which co-financing of insurance premiums from the State budget is provided. State resources to remedy the consequences of the damage are not justified by the agricultural holding for those agricultural crops for which it is possible to obtain State aid in the form of co-financing of the insurance premium in order to remedy the consequences of the adverse weather conditions. The agricultural damage assessment procedure due to adverse weather conditions and the application procedure for State aid resources are being merged. In order to address the consequences of minor natural disasters, the funds will have to be provided by the owners of the damaged items themselves, notably by securing things that are sensitive to the occurrence of adverse weather conditions. The beneficiary will have to demonstrate at least 50% of agricultural crop insurance if he wants to obtain State aid or will have to be included in the existing scheme for co-financing insurance premiums for agricultural crops for which the Ministry of Agriculture provides such financing for normal agricultural damage, which on average do not exceed 60% of normal agricultural production due to adverse weather conditions. Only drought will be such an unfavourable weather phenomenon, for which State aid will be provided under the proposed law. In view of the new socio-economic relations and concrete experience, both from the Soča and from the experience that will be shown after the consequences of the last capture have been resolved, it would make sense to develop a comprehensive design of natural and other disaster management and cooperation with other resources. In our parliamentary group, we will support the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, which was submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u74	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u75	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In the amended Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, we believe that the role of municipalities should be highlighted in particular. For the congregations are those who are the first ones in the area of natural disasters and, of course, people first resort to the congregation or all those services that are responsible for protecting the environment or for the area of civil protection. In addition, we are of course very clear in the law that the Government is taking concrete measures only when the damage exceeds 0.3 per cent of the planned revenue of the state budget so that it is really first aid - if I may say so - under the highest jurisdiction of the municipalities. Therefore, it is not important that this law also complements the provisions that say that if the municipality exceeds the consumption of its budgetary reserves to remedy the recovery, these funds will also be reimbursed. I hope that in the shortest possible time and deadlines that enable the congregation to carry out all other tasks normally. Otherwise, this law opens up an important area in Article 2. For it speaks of the fact that resources under this law cannot be obtained if not all the agri-technical measures planned under the agricultural policy of adaptation to climate change have previously been implemented. It also speaks of the fact that aid cannot be obtained if other planned measures to protect against natural disasters, the consequences of which could be prevented and mitigated by these measures have not been implemented. So it's a very wide range of tasks. In the fact that we are still facing a weak agricultural policy or agricultural policy that has not processed all these measures, the implementation of this law is being questioned. We can, of course, also talk about measures to be implemented in other areas and would be necessary to mitigate natural disasters. Indeed, it is a fact that in Slovenia we have been finding for many years that we do not deal with irrigation systems, that we do not maintain existing irrigation systems and that the water economy is exceedingly reversed in the part that deals with water management, circulatory treatment, balancing water masses and consequently reducing damage in the event of captures and similar disadvantages. It is therefore truly expected, under this Article, that the Government will rapidly approach specific agricultural policies, that these agri-technical measures will be known and implemented. In particular, in the area of environmental protection and water management in the budgets ahead of us, there will be significantly more resources for this purpose, of course, than today. The Water Fund, which collects dedicated funds for this area - we can also find - has very little, far too little resources to be able to carry out its task effectively. At the same time, we can also find that a large part of these funds are used for other purposes than to protect against natural disasters or to control water. We welcome that part of the agricultural policy that is obviously already being implemented, which concerns an area that actually encourages insurance companies to be involved in the damage management process. These insurance sums and crop insurance are important. Because most of the funds to remedy the consequences of damage in agriculture will be paid from insurance companies, as the beneficiary will have to show at least 50% insurance for agricultural crops if he also wishes to obtain State aid. This is an important condition that - I think - can really ease the need for additional resources from the state budget. At the same time, we must also say that we therefore expect in the next budgets that funds will be very specifically planned, both for the removal of existing commitments in Posač and Posavje. And last but not least, the government will also set the criteria for dealing with the consequences of accidents on the premises. We expect - this is the weakness of this law - that the Government will also report on these measures to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u76	Thank you. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u77	Dear Mr President, honourable Member, distinguished Members, Mr Minister, Director of the Directorate! The urgency of amending the current law on the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters was highlighted by the current Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition in March of this year when he presented himself as a candidate. Our country must harmonise the allocation of state aid to remedy the consequences of agricultural damage with EU legislation. The substance of the changes follows the key objective of agriculture policy in this area, namely to include insurance undertakings to the maximum extent possible to address the consequences of agricultural damage due to adverse weather conditions. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we therefore support a solution whereby state resources to remedy the consequences of damage in agriculture are not the beneficiaries of the agricultural holding for those agricultural crops for which it is possible to obtain State aid in the form of co-financing of the insurance premium in order to remedy the consequences of the adverse weather conditions. We are confident that such a solution will encourage agricultural operators to move on to the already established insurance scheme introduced by the Ministry by co-financing the insurance premium for all agricultural crops and for all adverse weather conditions. Except for drought, for which the consequences of agricultural production cannot yet be secured. It is therefore envisaged that most of the funds to remedy the consequences of damage in agriculture will be paid from insurance companies, as the beneficiary will have to demonstrate at least 50% of the insurance of agricultural crops if he wants to obtain State aid or will have to be included in the existing scheme for co-financing of agricultural premiums. The result will be a significantly lower pressure on state aid payments to address the consequences of agricultural damage. This will certainly improve the dynamics of actual payments of funds to address the consequences of agricultural damage. The practice shows that, due to insufficient budgetary resources and poor planning, the beneficiaries of these funds to remedy damage in agriculture have been waiting for several years, which is also one of our perceptions to be responsible to both the Government and all those responsible for implementing the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. Climate change will increase the frequency of natural disasters associated with adverse weather conditions. In the LDS, we believe that insurance companies will need to be included to the greatest extent possible in the elimination of other damage, as in agriculture. However, the State will have to find mechanisms to promote integration into individual insurance, such as flood insurance or to find ways to co-finance the insurance premium. The fact is, for example, that flood insurance is expensive for natural persons. However, a significant increase in the number of insured persons would also reduce insurance premiums and make individual types of insurance more accessible to our citizens. This refers only to the remediation of the damage already incurred. The fact is that we will have to adapt to more frequent natural disasters due to global warming. In Slovenia we have registered more than a thousand terrestrial beaches, about 8,000 kilometres of storms, more than 26,000 streams, watercourses, a large number of flood zones and could still be listed. More than enough reasons to reconsider how we will face current and also upcoming natural disasters, especially what we will do to make the consequences as small and as manageable as possible. Surely we must first think about our spatial planning, as, for example, the statement by the Minister for the Environment and Space is still under great pressure to build flood areas. More resources will need to be devoted to maintaining existing and establishing new water protection and other infrastructure facilities, rehabilitation of beaches. More consistently protect and more properly manage protected forests. For example, agricultural policy and professions will have to seriously consider replacing dominant crops in agriculture with more drought-resistant crops. It will be necessary to update and strengthen measures to protect and rescue and to do much more. Above all, we will have to change our value system as individuals and as a community. As soon as possible, the better. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the amendment of the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u79	Good afternoon, Mr President, Mr Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! Today we are considering amendments and additions to the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Accidents just one week after one of the worst natural disasters in Slovenia. It's true, it's just a case. It is also true that the awareness of each of us as to how important a law we are considering is, even as a result of that accident, inappropriately greater than otherwise. First of all, let me say that in the New Slovenia Group we sincerely feel for all those affected by the recent trials, especially all of the tragically deceased. Members of New Slovenia will be able to help with the consequences of this natural disaster as soon as possible. On this occasion, we must thank all those who really intervened and acted in the event of the disaster itself and the first days after it. In particular, voluntary firefighting companies, civil protection, mayors and municipal equipment, members of the Slovenian Armed Forces and walking individuals should be highlighted here. In all the tragedy, however, it is gratifying that there is still a strong awareness in Slovenia of solidarity and unselfish aid, which has indeed proved to be true in these days. It seems very important to us that now all the institutions that will lead and implement the rehabilitation will be as quick and effective as all those who have dealt with it first. And if I go to the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Effects of Natural Disasters, I must say that the proposal for amendments to the law follows the key objective of agriculture policy in this area, in order to eliminate the consequences of the adverse weather in agriculture, to the greatest extent possible, to include insurance companies. State resources to remedy the consequences of agricultural damage will not be eligible for those agricultural crops for which co-financing of the insurance premium is possible. Such a solution will encourage farmers to join the insurance scheme for all agricultural crops and for all adverse weather conditions, except for drought, for which the consequences of agricultural production currently cannot be secured in Slovenia. In New Slovenia, we particularly welcome the simplification of some administrative procedures in dealing with the applications of beneficiaries for State aid to remedy the consequences of agricultural damage. This will result in a new merger of the injury assessment procedure and the application procedure for State aid. At the same time, the completed agricultural damage report form will be the application for State aid. The amendment of the law also regulates the lower threshold and the calculation of this threshold under which the State budget resources are not allocated for the relief of natural disasters in damaged dwellings. The proposed law removes some other inconsistencies with European Community legislation and some shortcomings that have been demonstrated in the allocation of aid. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that the proposed changes are good and we will unanimously support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr Kristijan Janc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! With the Slovenian People's Party, we have traditionally devoted our attention to the care of a farmer, a small man, who is in fact a great man and whose work means the pillar of sustainable rural development. Especially in recent times have we all been well aware of the significance of the natural disasters we have witnessed at this time. In everyday life, however, there can be some major consequences. The Commission Regulation is one of the first acts to regulate the handling of climate change adaptation and State aid for agricultural damage resulting from the above-mentioned factors. In doing so, State aid for agricultural damage is already used to refer to the adverse climate phenomenon, which is the most accurate definition of the state of our planet, for which we – if you like it or not – are guilty of our own conduct. However, the changes are already here and unfortunately here its catastrophic consequences, which often affect the one who deals with agriculture. The aim of this law is also to coordinate in some way with European legislation already mentioned in the Council Regulation. In addition, the proposer wishes at least to ease certain administrative procedures in the processing of applications by beneficiaries for financial assistance to remedy the consequences of agricultural damage. The Slovenian People's Party actively participated in this law. In addition, some other parties proposed amendments to the law, which were all adopted. We believe that this will make the marriage even better. Nevertheless, we believe that the procedures for the operation of the means to remedy the consequences of accidents and damage in agriculture that cannot be secured and the programmes to remedy the consequences of the damage have taken too long. The reason lies in too little regular budget resources. But we hope and firmly believe that it can be thoughtfully and well organized to correct or change this. After all, we are witnessing ever-increasing climate change, which will ultimately lead to all the worst natural disasters. Therefore, it is also useful to consider the possibility of providing additional funds for these purposes. While the bill sees possibilities for addressing the reduction of administrative barriers in a way that harm due to adverse weather conditions is assessed for each agricultural crop once and before harvesting, not always the number of adverse weather conditions. In our opinion, one of the most important ones is that it would be good to include insurance companies to the greatest extent possible to address the consequences of agricultural damage caused by adverse climatic events. The beneficiary will have to seek at least 50% of agricultural crop insurance if he wishes to receive State aid or will have to be included in the existing scheme for co-financing insurance premiums for all agricultural crops and for all adverse weather conditions, except for drought. The Slovenian People's Party is also of the opinion that it would be necessary for insurance companies to be able to provide for agricultural crops also in the case of drought. During the period 2000-2005, drought was the primary cause of adverse weather conditions, which resulted in damage of 57.17%. The next factor is hail - followed only by 21.2%, storms - almost 10% and so on. Climate change will cause more and more adverse weather events. However, the pressure after the state aid has been paid to remedy the consequences of the damage in this case will be lower than it has been so far. The proposal to amend the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters from the State Budget provides the means to remedy the consequences of agricultural damage in relation to the adverse weather conditions that cannot be covered and those for which co-financing of insurance premiums from the State budget is provided. As already mentioned, drought is just a phenomenon for which the proposed law provides state aid. It is estimated that the reduction of the budget expenditure to address the consequences of agricultural damage is around 40% of the average annual amount paid out of the budget in the period 2000-2005 to remedy the consequences of the damage. In our view, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters is appropriate, especially after the adoption of all these amendments already mentioned. That is why we also support it in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary and others, co-workers and co-workers. The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters will indeed be supported in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. We believe that the main purposes are good. We believe that they are also well versed in the law and in fact means the most important issue of harmonisation of European Union legislation, while it is important to stress that what we have never been able to achieve is achieved and that legislation has somehow forced us to give state aid only for things that are not, but cannot be protected and given state aid for things that are insecure. Such insurance may also be subsidised by the State. Any simplification of documents and procedures is also useful and welcome. From this point of view, the law really seems to be in place. To what has been said and said by some others, I would of course say that for a long time I also have to say, at a time when I myself had a certain executive influence on these things - we are aware and aware of the fact that all of this legislation is indelibly focused on the fact that somehow reluctantly favours passiveness and waiting for such or other forms of national reparation for the consequences of natural disasters, should be anywhere but, of course, in agriculture. It wasn't done enough. Sometimes it wasn't made possible by the insurance policy. Years ago, some insurance companies didn't even want to think about certain forms of insurance. They're doing it today. It was too small for active insurance, which appears to be forms of insurance insurance, as forms of change and changes - say - crops in areas where certain micro-climate changes are taking place and so on. It was also insufficient to assess the construction of infrastructure in terms of robustness to extreme weather events. We had these extreme weather events once less. We'll obviously have more now, or we'll already have more. This, of course, needs to be carefully observed and the building regulations and others can be adapted accordingly. If I had this opportunity, I would explain to you in these two minutes the dilemma that I have and that might need to be discussed sometime. I myself used to be a strong advocate of the so-called General System Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. The more it was, I would say, shaped the text of this law, the more concerns I had. In particular, because I believe that there are a number of cases for so-called normal accidents, accidents that can be predicted by some risk assessment system at an annual level if you want to be covered by mandatory reservations and other mechanisms, such as infrastructure and so on. That's what the budget does. When a major accident occurs, it seems to be a case, such as an earthquake in Bovec or in Posoč, or, say, this last impression - that this law is somehow too short and that special laws will have to be adopted for these major extreme accidents with consequences, because it is not possible to foresee all the specificities in the law. I'm not sure if the Ministry is thinking this way or not. But I think I'm also asking in a way whether they're thinking about making a special law for this case. And whether they hope and believe that the relatively complicated structure of this whole law will be good enough for the country to be able to effectively address the consequences of the latest capture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u84	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, in the framework of the half-hour vote, following the end of item 2 of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is on a defensive proposal for a law on the additions of the law on the conditions of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the underworld. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Janez Podobnik for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! At its 129th meeting, at the beginning of July this year, the Government laid down the text of a law supplementing the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava and sent it to the National Assembly. The current law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Sava below explicitly identifies the entity that can perform the concession, namely, the Sava power plant Ljubljana d.o.o. in Holding Slovenske power plant d.o.o. [[..]] However, if the concession is to be transferred to a new concessionaire, that law should be supplemented. On the basis of that Act on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower Sava and other regulations, the electricity production activity is carried out through Holding Slovenske Power Plant d.o.o. which is organised as a company or its subsidiaries. The project, which has so far been implemented through a joint venture agreement between these companies, will require additional funding due to the short-term construction of hydroelectric power plants on the bottom of the Sava. The completion of the law therefore follows these objectives. This is the possibility of establishing a new legal person, whose founders will Holding the Slovenian power plant d.o.o. and GEN Energia d.o.o. and related companies to which the entire construction project on the lower Savi will then be transferred. This law therefore allows the transfer of the concession contract to a new company, whose shareholders, as I have already stated, are holding the Slovenian power plant and GEN energy and related companies, which are solely owned by them. In this way, we believe that further development of the energy system of the Republic of Slovenia will also be coordinated. The project for the construction of the sub-save chain of hydroelectric power plants, based on joint cooperation, follows in particular the principle of multi-purposeness of this major project. Indeed, measures to prevent and limit the effects of floods, droughts and municipal waste water are being implemented in the implementation of individual infrastructure arrangements. The regulation of groundwater creates favourable conditions for agriculture. By ensuring the flow of dams and the construction of fish tracks, the negative impacts on fish in the Sava River are also reduced. In view of the proposed addition, the transfer of the concession will therefore only be possible with the prior authorisation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and the entry of third parties into the ownership of the new company as the new concessionaire will be possible only after the prior consent of the concordant, that is, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and subject to the conditions and procedures laid down in the regulation governing the public private partnership. Dear Members and Members! It is therefore a complement to the law, which complements the project for the further construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava in terms of possible additional financial partnerships, the development of the energy system of the Republic of Slovenia, and as we have already said to prevent restrictions on the effects of floods, droughts and municipal waste water. In our firm belief, therefore, the proposed amendment to the law has long-term positive national effects. In particular, in order to achieve the objectives of the European Union's energy climate strategy by 20% of the share of renewables in primary energy consumption in the Republic of Slovenia by 2020. I therefore propose and ask Members and Members to support the proposed law after the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u86	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. I ask Mr Daniel Krivec to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u87	Dear President, distinguished minister with a team, colleagues, colleagues! At its 12th emergency meeting on 13 September, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the Environment and Space of the Republic of Slovenia considered a proposal for a law supplementing the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower Sava, which was sent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with a proposal to deal with it following a reduced procedure, since it is less difficult to supplement this law. Representatives of the proposer of the bill and the Legal and Legislative Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia took part in the meeting. In the introductory explanation of the proposal, the proposer pointed out that the proposed supplements allow for the transfer of concessions which, under the current law, can be awarded without a call only to a certain entity to a new concession holder, which is a newly established company that will arise from the current joint holding of the Slovenske power plant d.o.o. and the entry of the new entrants GEN Energija d.o.o. The transfer will only be possible with the concessional prior consent. The legislative and legal service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and legal systems and the legislative technical aspect and commented on Article 1 of the bill. In the context of the second reading of the draft law, the Committee on Environment and Space, in accordance with Articles 126, 131 and 132 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and on the amendment tabled in Article 1. The amendment tabled by the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS members to Article 1 has been adopted by the Committee. He also adopted both articles of the proposed law. In the light of the amendment adopted, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a further draft law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava, which is an integral part of the report of the Committee, is prepared. The Committee proposes that the proposed law be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u88	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Well, the position I'm going to present will be relatively brief. Let me state in the forecast that we will support this proposal ahead of us. The energy situation in Slovenia is not such that we can be completely carefree. Not only because of the negative energy balance, but also because of this, probably because we have all the targets set for the environmental burden in the deadlines set, we will probably not be able to achieve them if we reach them at all. In particular, I have in mind the effects caused by emissions into the air. In this regard, the proposal for a concession is so much more important. Because it's about accelerating investment in renewables. It is a matter of finding, in time, that not only investment is necessary, but that we also need to change the strategy in such a way as to save ourselves with new technologies and with a new way of production. Therefore, it is not possible to seek solutions only in such a way as to trust in ever-increasing and new investment in new energy. But the essence of what we have in front of us today is to enable the transfer of the concession or to enable a new concessional relationship and thus enable the entry of an additional concessionaire. If this means that one part of our electricity economy will be burdened in such a way that it can invest and provide investment in Kozjak, then we support such decisions because such hydrocentrals as the Cossack Strait allow for significantly better business, especially when we have needs in the peaks as regards consumption. It is a little more questionable for us whether there will be enough consensus in Slovenia to locate part of this investment potential in Mura. It's not certain. There will be no agreement on this in Slovenia, so that no one would object. The question is what will the research show, so what environmental impacts would be and whether environmental damage be greater than energy benefits? We believe that the country should do as soon as possible and as much as possible to invest the remaining investment potentials in gas and steam power plants. We have these options in Slovenia and we need to make appropriate decisions as soon as possible, including more accelerated work on cogenerations. Especially those who use renewable resources is probably one of the priorities we should set ourselves. It is also important, when we are talking about this issue, to do more than merely declare the need for how we will energy-saving our facilities. Because there's energy blowing up our air completely for nothing. Therefore, in the hope that this transfer of concession will mean greater and better investment for the generation of electricity from renewable sources, the DeSUS Group will also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u90	Thank you. Mr Milenko Ziherl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Slovenian Democratic Party will also support the proposal for a law supplementing the terms of the concession to exploit the energy potential of the Lower Sava. Because Mr Minister has already given most of the reasons why he needs to be supported. Above all, it is the energy self-sufficiency of Slovenia. This is about renewable resources and thus Slovenia's commitment to a 20% reduction in the share of energy from fossil fuels and a 20% increase in the share of renewables, to which water energy certainly belongs. By establishing power plants on the lower Sava, we will also gain in regulating the Sava level, in regulating flood threats, in dealing with drought and a whole bunch of other acquisitions. That is why we will support this law in our group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u92	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Mr Tauzes, Members and Members of Parliament. The amendments and additions to the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava, which we are considering today, constitute a third amendment to this law, which was adopted in 2000, and has somehow opened the way for the construction of a whole chain of hydropower plants on the lower Sava. By amending the law, it will be possible to transfer the concession to a newly established company which will come from the current company Holding Slovenski power plants d.o.o. and the new company Gen energie d.o.o., which is 100% owned by the country and is the carrier of the so-called second energy pillar in Slovenia. This will transfer to the new concessionaire the entire project of the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava, with the transfer being possible only with the prior consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, the law provides for restrictions on the possible entry of third parties into the ownership of the new concessionaire, which will be possible only with the prior consent of the candidate and subject to the conditions or procedures laid down in the rules governing the public private partnership. We have already supported the construction of hydro power plants on the bottom of the Sava in the past, while stressing that the approach to construction should be made possible, in particular, by investors who will be able to provide adequate financial resources for the implementation of the investment programme of the entire chain. This is not and must not only be the interest of the local population, but also of Slovenian interest. Finally, I would like to say that the Social Democrats are paying attention to the proposaler's promises to operate transparently in a newly established company. Finally, in Radeče, where there is also a hydroelectric power plant, we have some bitter experiences from the past, when commitments or decisions were not respected, which eventually resulted in unnecessary disputes or disputes in the country. In the Group of Social Democrats we hope and believe that this time it will be different, so we will give this novel a chance and we will support the law. I hope and wish that the Government will also have a hearing for the second energy segment when we talk about the closure of the RTH Trbovlje, that it will think in the same way as it thinks when it comes to Posavje. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Mr. Minister! The project of the Lower-Sava power plant chain is one of the largest projects in Slovenia, important for both the energy system and local communities, which have been for many years due to planned power plants and related space reservations limited in their spatial and infrastructure development. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we strongly support the further construction of the lower-Savish chain not only because of its importance for the Slovenian energy system, but also because of the expectations of the local population. As an example, 18 watercourses will need to be remedied within the hydroelectric project of Blanca and Boštanj, which will improve flood safety in the area of municipal infrastructure, and the state will finance the construction of three small cleaning plants and much more. As it is said, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia supports the continuation of the project to build the lower-Savish chain. Of course, we also expect to build a chain of hydroelectric power plants on the Central Sava. However, we remain somewhat skeptical of the planned entry of the second pillar or GEN energy into the project of building the lower-level chain, mainly because of the vague links between the consequences of this entry and the future privatisation of one of the energy pillars in our country. The government imposed a resolution on development projects on the second pillar of the investment direction, which means, above all, the continuation of the construction of the lower-level chain and the possible construction of the second block of the nuclear crack. The second pillar already has reserved funds for entry into the project for the construction of the lower-Savish chain, together about EUR 9 million to be invested by the second pillar in the company and then increased its share by direct investment in the construction of the lower-Savish chain. In time, the investment share of the first pillar or Holding of the Slovenian Power Plants was to be reduced and its investment potential released, which could be used to a greater extent for other investments in other areas within Slovenia. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we want to see that the GEN energy is able to easily assume the role of the main investor in the further construction of the lower-level chain and that the change will not affect the project's time plan. Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will decide in their own opinion in support of or opposition to the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u96	Thank you. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u97	It's a good day to everyone again. In the New Slovenia Group, we do not oppose amendments to the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava. The law that we have before us is very short, since it essentially has one article or two articles, but it is about changes that would allow the concession to be transferred to the new concessionaire. The creation of a new legal entity to which the entire project of the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava will be transferred is envisaged. In the current law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava, it is explicitly stated that two concessionaires or Sava power plant and Holding the Slovenian power plant do so. It is therefore necessary to amend this law to transfer the concession to the new concessionaire. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposed additions that the transfer of the concession will be possible only with the prior permission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, the entry of a third party into the ownership of a new company as a new concessionaire will be possible only by prior agreement of the candidate and subject to the conditions and procedures laid down in the regulation governing the public-private partnership. We are confident that this change will not have bad consequences, but will allow for faster development and faster construction of power plants on the lower Sava, and thus, somewhere, provide greater energy self-sufficiency in Slovenia. I think we need to stress that when there is a lot of talk today about renewable energy sources, it is also very important that renewable energy sources are fully exploited, but if we want to ensure one satisfactory energy self-sufficiency, we are also forced to other types of energy, including fossil fuels. So I hope that there will be no opposition to the construction of the 6th block of Thermal Power Plant Šostjanj, because if we look at the size of the energy produced, of course, it is an incomparable thing. So, once again, in the parliamentary group, we will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr Kristijan Janc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr Minister, Mr Tauzes, colleagues and colleagues. The Ministry of Environment and Space has been the author of this replenishment of the Act before us today, since, under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the concessionaire holding the Slovenian power plant, which has the right to use energy in the lower Sava since the signing of the concession contract, that is, from 8 July 2002 onwards. The concessionaires are already successfully building the first hydroelectric power plant in the He Boštanj chain within the concession contract period, which is already launching the first electricity produced into the energy network. There is also a concession fee in the state and local budgets, allowing for the further construction of some necessary infrastructure. It should also be noted that the construction of an individual hydropower plant is essential for the construction and reconstruction of water, state and local infrastructure that protects the urban settlement from centuries of high water. The newly built infrastructure brings better quality of life to citizens and other users; otherwise, we must stress the experience of the previous week that the places along the Sava River in the HE Boštanj area remained uninhabited, so that this project has even greater scope, and also because of this project, Posav, as I said, was spared in the last capture, which of course was not before. In view of the positive experience, it is more than economical that the project of the construction of HE on the lower Sava takes place, even at a faster pace confirmed by the Slovenian government, and the concessionaire must also follow this, which is why it has also been an incentive to supplement the law that we are considering, as amendments to the law will allow the transfer of the concession to a new company that will emerge from the current joint venture of the Slovenian Holding and the entry of the new partner Gen Energy, which will allow for more stable financing of the HE project on the lower Sava. The newly established company must be operational by the end of this year at the latest, including through transparent operations in terms of new accounting standards. In order to implement the envisaged activities, however, it is imperative to adopt legislation, which I believe today in this broad support for the Parliamentary Groups to follow and also thank you on behalf of the Group of Members for this support, as well as as as the Mayor of the Municipality of Sevnica, and I think this is very important for further positive results, both in the environment and in the recovery of renewable energy sources in the Republic of Slovenia, which we urgently need to provide energy at home. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we will unanimously support the proposed amendment of the law, and we will also support it if the consensus is favourable to the environment for the Central Sava and also in Mura, as it was when this project started in the lower Posavje, where we received positive support in Posavje today and in partnership with the country we are also successfully implementing the HE project on the lower Sava. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, ministers with coworkers! Any law indicating the country's awareness of energy self-sufficiency is welcome, I speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party - so it is also welcome to include this law or the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the terms of the concession to exploit the energy potential of the Lower Sava. Moreover, it is good for this law to reflect ownership. In the facts which are evident from it, the concessionary acts as GEN energy d.o.o., which is, as stated, 100% state-owned. The fact that any transfer of concessions will be possible with the previous agreement of the candidate, in this case the State, is welcome. And the fact that, once again, the transfer of concessions is possible with the prior agreement of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is welcome. This way we will have transparency, energy security or an energy security attempt for energy self-sufficiency. He is, of course, a respected minister, and you probably have a lot of discussions ahead of you with all those who will be involved or involved with power plants on the water, such as, let's say, it's already set up because it's great, it's good, and sometimes ecologically even a little controversial, but sometimes another time. Thus, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I say that we will support the proposal for a law supplementing the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava with the knowledge and conviction that it is the security, energy security of this country and that it is also a parallel potential development of the environment and of the places and people living there.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u102	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of item 2 of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on investment funds and management companies. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Because the government representative at this point is not yet in the hall, or do you want me to interrupt the meeting in order to take about 10 minutes. [[...]] I see a wish, one of the Members wants us to stop. So, at the request of Members who have the right to express this, I am adjourning the meeting in 10 minutes. We'll pick her up at 11.40.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue the meeting of the National Assembly and the adjourned item 2 of the agenda. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Andre Šircl, the State Secretary for Complementary Explanation of the Proposal for a Law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! First of all, I'd like to apologize for my delay, because I just couldn't get to the National Assembly meeting fast enough. Allow me to brief you on the key news of the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the law on investment funds and management companies. Among the innovations brought by the novelty is the possibility of reshaping mutual funds and simplifying the operations of management companies through the introduction of the Institute of the Trust Fund. The Investment Funds and Management Companies Act has so far allowed only two forms of restructuring of the Investment Fund, namely the liquidation of the Fund and the transfer of management to another management company. The proposal adds the possibility of linking the entire mutual fund to another mutual fund within the same management company. This gives management companies an additional room of manoeuvre in creating as cost-effective and investment-optimal as possible. The economies of scale will thus enable larger funds to have relatively lower costs and savings will also be paid to investors in mutual funds. In the area of umbrella funds, the proposal introduces two independent innovations among themselves, which have long been established in EU countries and allow for greater flexibility of mutual fund management services. The management company will be able to issue investment vouchers of different classes of the same mutual fund by introducing umbrella funds. This means that the same mutual investment policy fund can offer coupons of different classes, while the rights of holders of investment vouchers of different classes differ from that of others according to entry and exit costs, payment and retention of profits. In this way, the same mutual fund may be intended for different target groups of investors. On the other hand, the introduction of umbrella funds will also enable the management company to connect its separate mutual funds so far within the new umbrella fund framework, which contains sub-funds that differ according to investment policy. This framework will facilitate administrative procedures in management companies, while allowing investors to move more easily between mutual funds of different investment policies and related risks. The position of investment companies does not change with the proposal of the novel. For investment companies of privatisation origin, the conversion period remains the same as that adopted in the applicable law on investment funds and management companies, and these companies must be transformed into mutual funds by 2011 at the latest. These amendments to the amendment will not impose new obligations on management companies, but will open up new opportunities for management companies to take advantage of in their performance strategies in domestic and foreign markets. Dear Members, the Government proposes that you accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u105	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask President Bojan Starman to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! At its 29th meeting, on 13.9., the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for its consideration and adoption. We obtained an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments on many articles that were later adopted as amendments to the Committee. The Committee received further letters from the Association of Investment Fund Management Companies on 13.7.2007 and 21.8.2007 with amendments to Article 5 and for the new 124th paragraph of the draft law. During the business period, the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia and Slovenian People's Party members also tabled amendments for the new 124a. Article, amendment of the amendment of 10.9.2007. First, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service took part in the debate and confirmed that her comments were fully taken into account in the Committee's proposals and amendments adopted, and then there was a debate on Article 5 on how to ensure, with what data, the possibility of managing and operating companies. It was found that it was best to ensure or re-evaluate this in any way. We have this amendment, which is supposed to solve this problem and enable investment companies to work, even in front of each other. The Committee adopted the amendment, designated itself until the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party's Party's parliamentary groups for the new 124a. Article 5.9.2007, which was amended on 10.9 and adopted. The Committee adopted the amendments and, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, prepared the text of the amended bill, which we also propose to the National Assembly for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u107	Thank you. Here comes the presentation of the position of the members of the groups. Mr Veršnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u108	Thank you. Nice greetings to all present. The Investment Funds and Management Companies Act is a law that lays down rules for the operation of investment funds and companies for their management. It is an important law, as it lays down rules for the operation of savings and the financial assets of the individual number of citizens held in Slovenian 7 investment companies, 99 mutual funds and 6 mutual pension funds and 122 foreign mutual funds or sub-funds marketed by foreign persons authorised by the Securities Market Agency - mostly from Austria and Luxembourg. In seven Slovenian investment companies, at the end of the year, the net value of the funds was around EUR 960 million, which is said to be almost a billion euros, of the shareholders of investment companies was around 240 000. In 99 Slovenian mutual funds there were around 273,000 citizens, while the net value of their assets was EUR 1928 million or almost EUR 2 billion. In six Slovenian mutual pension funds, the net value was EUR 335 million and the number of members and savers was around 220 000. The numbers I have pointed out speak in themselves of the importance of the law or its rules for the management of the great financial assets of our citizens. Compliance with these rules in the current global world - it means market risks, which have become a constant. To a large extent, the European Union is concerned to comply with these rules for Member States in the single European financial market by adopting the relevant directives. This is how we today accept amendments and additions to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act, in short, to ZISDU-1B, which either directly harmonise our legislation with the European directives or indirectly harmonise where prior to that, other directives have already been transposed into other new domestic legislation and need to be aligned with them. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support all the proposed changes to the novel, but we would like to stress that the law itself is a necessary basis for the efficient and efficient operation of investment funds and for the safe management of the financial assets of citizens. The implementation or supervision of these laws, for which independent and independent supervisory institutions are responsible, in particular the Securities Market Agency, is of paramount importance. Members of the Parliament of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group believe that the Securities Market Agency is aware of its responsibilities and responsibilities in overseeing the management of investment funds, where more and more savings are made by our citizens, although the tradition of such Slovenian savings is relatively short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Milan M. Cwickl will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The Group of Social Democrats will not object to the adoption of the law, but we are pleased that, after we have reached at least that article, which is the most controversial in this law, has remained open, we have received the Government's proposal for a new amendment to Article 5 of the Act. What's the point? The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act mainly aligns Slovenian legislation with European directives, at the point of ensuring and fulfilling the role of investment funds and management companies in relation to taxation, and to the tax administration, the Government sought to obtain a general mandate from individuals to obtain all data from individuals. We objected, the article remained open, and it is now proposed that a tax number may be obtained between personal data, but - important - the tax number can only be obtained on the basis of the applicant's written consent. This means, however, that the comments of the JIU have not been fully taken into account or that it will still be necessary to write to individual investors and will create certain problems, but that the previous solution, so to speak, is that the DSU authorities receive data without any restrictions, is also not acceptable. I think that it is appropriate not to oppose the law, but it is certainly appropriate to support the amendment to Article 5 of the amended law because, on the contrary, the law would not have achieved its objective and would be totally unacceptable in terms of ensuring the protection of personal data. We have pointed out in the debate that it does not matter who and how he can obtain the tax number. We are pleased that, from 13 September to 25 September, there have been as many logical solutions as possible. We will not oppose the law. As I say so, let me still believe that the area of regulation of investment funds and management companies has achieved a lot of ups and downs in this government's mandate. It is unclear what the Government wants in this area, not least in the government procedure a few days ago, the law on supplementing the law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies is being transmitted. Why am I saying this? I am saying this because it is no longer clear whether the Government actually controls the field of investment funds of management companies and, of course, the Government simply does not copy the European Directive into the domestic legal order and then the characteristics of the Slovenian legal order raise questions of constitutional dispute or the protection of personal data. With today's submission, and I believe also accepted or I hope that the amendment will be adopted, we will at least protect personal data. The remaining issues of the functioning of the financial market and the functioning of investment funds and management companies remain rather vague. And since, of course, we allow significant property changes in Slovenia, together with the takeover law, we fear that management companies and investment funds do not play the role they are supposed to play in accordance with European and other legislation. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It's the government's responsibility. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the law on investment funds and management companies. The bill responds to the expectations of management companies that the novelty will bring about more radical changes. Above all, the legislator wants to regulate their position. If the bill is adopted, the possibilities of operating domestic investment funds and management companies with the potential of foreign providers will be levelled. The Investment Funds were introduced into our legal order by the Property Transformation Act in November 1992. The Investment Funds and Management Companies Act, which entered into force in January 1994, sought to promote the development of the capital market and redesign the Slovenian financial system. Savings are expected to increase and make it possible to successfully invest in different forms of investment. This would make the investment structure of the population more similar to that of the European Union and the world. Studies in 2006 showed that almost 60% of Slovenians do not know what mutual funds are and more than 80% of respondents did not invest in mutual funds. Last year, investors invested €157 million in 99 domestic mutual funds, i.e. for €24 million or 18% more than in 2005. Inflows to mutual funds are estimated to increase by around 20% this year. For investment funds and management companies Slovenia's membership in the European Union, the principle of a single licence and control of the home country is established and this segment of the market is also exposed to much greater competition. In the New Slovenia Group, we expect that the amendment of the law will allow domestic Slovenian companies to have the same opportunities to operate mainly in terms of simplifying and facilitating the marketing of mutual funds outside Slovenia. The bill will also be supported by the New Slovenia Group for other simplifications. One of these is the establishment of the Institute of the Trust Fund, enabling management companies to improve the flexibility of mutual fund management services. The third possibility of reshaping funds is introduced, namely, linking the entire mutual fund to another mutual fund, which further simplifies business and makes it possible to introduce the principle of economies of scale. However, a change in the law can also be expected to reduce costs, both for funds and for investors. The new law also simplifies the operation of the national supervisory institution of the Securities Market Agency and clearly defines its powers. Amendments and additions to the proposed law are also necessary due to amended or new national legislation and Directives of the European Parliament. It needs to be aligned with the Company Act, the Non-Materialised Securities Act, the Banking Act and the Market in Financial Instruments Act, which we have recently adopted in the National Assembly, as well as with the recently amended Directive 85/611. New Slovenia's Parliamentary Group [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The proposal to amend and supplement the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act is supported. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary, Government representatives, Members and Members of Parliament! In particular, the proposal for a new Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies is needed to comply with the Directive on the harmonisation of laws and regulations on collective investment firms for investment in transferable securities. In addition, the proposed amendment brings coherence with others, recently adopted laws and some other amendments. In general, we can find that the investment of people in investment funds in Slovenia is increasing and that already a large part of Slovenians invest in investment funds in Slovenia. By increasing investment in funds, of course, it makes sense to adapt this product to individuals and to enable them to access funds as easily as possible, while also providing investors with a sufficient level of safety or control. It may be noted that the proposed law equates the operating conditions of Slovenian management companies with those under which management companies operate in other EU Member States. In Slovenia, 122 mutual funds or sub-funds in the management of companies from Austria, Luxembourg and Slovakia were marketed at the end of 2006 with the approval of the Securities Market Agency. For our investment funds or management companies, the harmonisation of conditions with other foreign companies is particularly welcome in terms of the possibility of competing in foreign markets. As in the Slovenian People's Party we have repeatedly warned Slovenian legislation to domestic companies should not reduce the initial competitiveness of performing in other markets outside our country. It also introduces the possibility for mutual funds to issue vouchers of different classes and thus the possibility of adapting conditions to different investors. In addition, it is possible to link the funds within the umbrella fund, which allows the costs to be reduced to management companies and, more importantly, indirectly, to reduce costs for investors. However, reducing these can, of course, help to increase the scope of the investment fund, which can also be achieved by combining or connecting funds, a novelty of the proposed law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the proposed law brings some innovations that will contribute both to rationalising the costs of investment funds and to more opportunities for expanding the supply of Slovenian funds in other countries. That is why we will support the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The position of unrelated Members will be given by Dr. Matej Lahovnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Dear Members, Members, representatives of the Government. We do not really oppose this law simply because, for the first time, it is a matter of harmonising with European directives, and for the second time, some of the necessary innovations are introduced, including the possibility of introducing the so-called Fund of Funds or the Trust Fund. Secondly, it is also possible to implement either single or double management in fund management companies. We are also of the opinion that the fact that a large number of citizens in Slovenia have decided to invest in foreign investment funds in the past period is understandable in some way. Competition is present, but on the other hand it is necessary to ensure equal conditions for Slovenian mutual funds or funds registered in the Republic of Slovenia, so that they can compete equally with foreign mutual funds with their offer and also have more investment opportunities to decide. That is why, as I have said, we do not oppose such a law, but we have some concerns that have already been expressed in the remaining parliamentary groups, and I believe that we will be able to address them by addressing the relevant amendments that have been tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives! As my previous speaker has also heard, it is a matter of double harmonisation, namely, compliance with the recent update of the directive and compliance with the new legislation with the Company Act. These are two reasons that do not, in substance, allow political options to be opposed. It is also about this law, as we all know, to level the business conditions of Slovenian companies, which is also not negative. It's going in a positive direction. It is also important that the objectives of this law, or - yes, the objectives of this law, namely to simplify business, are not changing the situation of investment companies; this is also an important information - that the novel does not interfere with mutual pension funds, that the novelty introduces two independent innovations to co-form a roof fund. These are all elements that do not allow opposition to this law, and in particular it is right to take into account the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service on the 30th Article of the Law and the 5th Article of the Law, as we can see that all comments have been taken into account. Well, the only question which remains an open question of Article 5 and to which the Government has also tabled its amendment. In fact, the issue of privacy or disclosure of personal data in the case of two elements, i.e. the EMSO and the tax number, is questionable. In any case, one thing can be good for another thing and another thing bad for another. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the government amendment proposal is approximately adequate, it is more inclined to protect personal data, but sometimes it would be good to have a bit more insight into tax burdens on the tax number of individual users. However, we do not have any comments in the Slovenian National Party on the amended Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act, except for the opinion expressed in Article 5 and we will not oppose it. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I am moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 24.9.2007. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the Government. Anybody want a word? Mr. Mag. Squeakle, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u120	Today it is going very quickly in this National Assembly, after the debate, which would really be a meaningful debate, is impossible, and I mean not in this law, but in another decision. My question regarding this amendment is as follows. We now have the text of the Government, which says that it is necessary for the tax number data to be obtained by the competent tax authority to give management companies the written consent of the applicant. If I understood industry representatives correctly, they warned that one of the biggest problems was this correspondence to the investor, because investors could simply give the tax number themselves. I would like to know how this will be done in the implementation: whether this will mean that, at the time of accession or at the start of the purchase of investment funds or funds, you will give general authority as a written authority to the management company and then it will be able to receive this tax number of yours. I am, of course, interested in implementing how the Ministry intends to do this, so that we know whether this amendment, which I support, will be a substantively good amendment. We are alone on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, in fact 124a. The article leaves - the fifth article amending this article - open and, of course, I would like to have the Government's representatives respond to the fact that I and the Slovenian public are clearly aware of what is going to happen here. However, I would point out that the tax number is an important number. In fact, the tax number means and can in a number of cases mean abuse of individuals and individual accounts. This is like, remember those banking stories when some of the so-called circuits in the third and fourth decimals channeled into a special account. And whoever knows the tax numbers of individuals can do this or that tax machination to the burden of the tax numbers. However, it is necessary to write this very precisely into the law and I would like the Government or the Ministry of Finance of the ATVP, DURS to control how it manages and manages these tax numbers in the DSUs, so that this would not be a free and accessible number to all. And in this context, if you remember the debate on your mother's working body, we have opposed such a wide-ranging dictatorship. Now we have some obstacle here, the investor's written consent, it is not clear, it is a written agreement for the single transmission of the tax number, or it is a written agreement that has been in force since today. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudy Versnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment proposed by the Government. We still consider, as we said in the Committee on Finance itself, that the tax number that appears here as a problem is not such a problem, it is usually a common code and we think that the definition and application of the Government is entirely appropriate in this Article 5 proposed by the Government. That is why we do not see any obstacles to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u124	Thank you very much. It's a logical, logistical question. See, in the amendment, I am talking about the amendment to Article 5, it says; first, it is referred to as 'to keep records of holders of investment vouchers of the first paragraph' and thus, 'as set out in Article 131, third paragraph'. And if we read the third paragraph of Article 131, we see what information someone is obliged to give. In these indications, what someone is obliged to give is already a tax number. Therefore, it is illogical for me first and second paragraphs, i.e. 'to keep records of holders of investment vouchers can be based' and so on 'gather directly from the person to which it relates'. Meaning - I give the data referred to in Article 131 and there is also a tax number. However, the following paragraph in the amendment states that "in spite of the preceding paragraph, a management company may, in the event that it finds that the personal information is incomplete, for the purpose of carrying out the tasks referred to in the preceding paragraph on the basis of a written request to the competent tax authority, obtain the tax number of the applicant." Now, this is a little unclear to me; it means that if this taxpayer fails to comply with Article 131, where the first indent of the third paragraph is that he has to give an EMHO and a tax number, so if he fails to do so, someone may still ask someone. But I don't understand why he didn't complete Article 131. I'm not clear on this, so I might ask if you could explain it to me because I'm not going along with these two paragraphs in the amendment, in accordance with paragraph 131. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr State Secretary has the floor. Otherwise, the application is still pending. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. A brief explanation of the proposed amendment. Of course, an individual can give a tax number in accordance with Article 131 and, of course, we do not see any problems that we would actually have. Secondly, if this tax number or other data is not accurate, then the management company may request the tax authority to obtain accurate data. Given that this is a relatively large number of beneficiaries, all data must be accurate. For this reason, the management company is given the possibility of a shorter route to obtain this from the tax administration. Of course, the beneficiary or that person must give the written consent to which the data relate. This opens another way to get this tax number from an individual. This will, of course, be of benefit to management companies. The next question is whether a tax number becomes a public or a tax number in fact a secret. Here I must say that the Government has made a midway through this amendment, given that, under the tax procedure law, tax numbers are classified and can only be obtained by the specified institutions listed in the tax procedure law. In view of this - and here we have to say in some way honestly that the tax numbers are already being used in practice, that in practice they are actually required by a number of legal persons who in a certain way are making certain records for any purpose - the Government has also decided here to make it possible for companies to manage this number to make it easier for them to operate. Then there is the question whether this is a secret, or not a secret, which is just a special law compared to the tax procedure law that this law will make a certain departure. With this, of course, we do not think that the right - in this case I will say - to the taxpayers, so that these figures are used for certain purposes which would not be appropriate or which would not be legal, but only for the purpose of paying the investment vouchers and implementing this law. This is supposed to facilitate business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u128	I understand that, of course, the government gives this possibility a tax number. I'm still interested in how the government will carry out its control. Will the government or tax administration, anyone, keep an eye on how these tax numbers will be used? Since the commitment is already here that only for the implementation of other laws and regulations, but above all that the tax number at the DSU would not be freely available to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u129	Thank you very much. And Mr. Mag. It's bad luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Mr Secretary of State! I have to address this kind of larpurlarism, in fact the incredible bureaucracy that causes, I have to use the term "administrative burden" for both the operator and the user for the one who has the resources in the management companies. It's totally unnecessary. Who can prove to me that the tax number or the EMHO - I'm talking only about the numbers that I have in front of me - personal data? I don't know anything about it because I don't know which person it is. The birth data that accidentally went into the EMŠO code system doesn't mean anything if you don't know which person is wearing this EMŠO, let alone a tax number. The problem of collecting these numbers does not yet fall under the Law on the Protection of Confidential Data, but it does fall under what is the tax code for this. However, those who have permission to look into the content of the tax number must comply with the law. It must then have a special access system to register all accesses, to record the reasons for views and interventions and so on; and that is the essence of it all. The management company will now use personal data: the name, surname and address to invite this member to grant permission to use the tax number of the management company. Please. Who will ask this citizen if he can use the address, name, surname, street, place of residence? I don't know. I think it is absolutely unnecessary, however, that the essence is to intervene and process the data that are for the tax number in this case, but to regulate it by an appropriate law that protects this data and is essential there. In fact, there is a problem, as has already been mentioned, that many of these personal data are written. I don't know, you buy a card, you write an address, you write a personal number on a paper, this paper sees a lot of people who can abuse that data; they say, they sign it, remember it, or whatever. In this case, if the tax numbers were normally collected by management companies, they would be kept as necessary, these companies would have a special permit on the basis of fulfilling all the conditions so that they could look for data which are for a tax number that is not yet personal data, then they could fulfil those tasks under the law - on taxation and so on. And the matter would be transparent and automatic, in fact there would be no personal views. Now, of course: letters up and down and correspondence and enrollment. In the end, the result will be exactly the same as if there were no such amendment. Completely unnecessary bureaucracy and administrative burden. Once again, I propose that such and similar cases dealt with in different laws be clarified in some way and put in place a system that will provide even better protection of personal and business data, confidentiality and, at the same time, will not unnecessarily complicate things or add some administrative unnecessary burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u132	I am announcing this debate with the Member of Parliament. I think, of course, the Government's proposal has been corrected. I do not understand now whether the coalition, with its statements, does not support what the Government has proposed here. I did not see any amendment to the Government's amendment by the coalition, which was essentially the result of a discussion by a fellow Member. I am of the opinion that the solution proposed in the amendment is correct, that at least, as necessary, and this has also been added, in addition to some other exceptions - at least as applicable, is that there is the right written consent of the applicant to whom the data relates. And this is a novelty with regard to the text of this amendment, or Article 5, as we have adopted on the Committee. So let's talk about whether the coalition now supports the Vada amendment or not, because I understood, my fellow Member, that this is bureaucracy if individuals have to give written consent. He also forgot about the substantive provision, which also says that the Government has extended the content of the tax number to pay off investment coupons, but this is already less important. From the debate I have heard, I have the feeling that Members do not support the Government's proposal, but that the amendment to the Government's amendment has not been given. So make up your mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, at 1300 hours, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, and I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue at 1300 hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the call for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Change of Insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decree on the Call for a Legislative Referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Change of Insurance. We're voting. Excuse me. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] Anyone else? [[Nobody.]] Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Please. Mr. Mag. Squeak. We are discussing, or explaining, the vote is about a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I will support the decree drawn up on the basis of the request of the Council of State, after the Council of State has failed with a veto, in accordance with the second article, it will be necessary to ask citizens, citizens, voters and voters whether, in order to enforce the law that we have adopted in the National Assembly and for which it is, I quote the Minister at today's meeting, who said that his main objective is to get the state out of the economy. The State shall, as proposed and as stated in the request of the State Council, withdraw from the insurance undertaking, in particular from the Triglav Insurance Company, in a non-transparent and unconstitutional manner, since, unlike legal persons, natural persons are not allowed to exercise ownership rights. I think it is right that the Council of State has called for a referendum, and it is right that the National Assembly will call for a referendum on 11 November. This will be on the day of the decision in the second round, most likely in the second round, including what and which president of the country we will get. Whether we will, of course, get the President of the State who protects the formal ownership of individuals or such, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u136	we are not talking about the vote or election of the President of the State, Mr. Cwickl [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u137	which, of course, also supports this referendum. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u138	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u139	I believe that the request of the Council of State is in line [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] with the request of those Members and Members who, in this Assembly, were against the wrong and oversold sale of an important State stake in the Triglav Insurance Company. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We're voting. I note that 63 Members and Members voted for 63 against no one. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - the second is the proposal for a law on venture capital companies. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 2. We're voting. 64 Members and Members voted for 55 against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 51. We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted for 47 against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the proposer of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u141	President, thank you for your word. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we propose that the draft law be adopted at the same meeting in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law on Thursday, 27.9.2007, in the framework of the votes. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to these Articles may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the 14th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents, following an urgent procedure We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments were not tabled in the second reading, amendments cannot be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There were 71 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower Sava following a reduced procedure Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, amendments to the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There were 71 Members and Members present, 61 votes against1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, this is second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the Government to Article 5. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Mag. Squeakle, here you go. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? In my own name. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u143	The amendment is a reflection of the discussion at the meeting of the parent working body and, of course, gives an additional restriction on the conditions under which the tax number is also allocated to the DSU. I think that this is a good solution, and I also propose to those Members who did not in the previous debate, but were members of the coalition, followed by the will of the ruling coalition in the role of government, which this time drafted an amended amendment to support this amendment. And as I said before, we will not continue to oppose the law in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u144	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There were 72 votes in favour, and 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment, thus concluding the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the proposer of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I propose that the next or third hearing be carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold its third reading of the bill on Thursday, 27.9.2007 in the framework of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the adoption of the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mitja Slavinc, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision. At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Defence, Mr Karl Erjavac, to Dr. Mitje Slavinca's question regarding the mobile military hospital ROLE 2. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 43. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana M. Szwikl, the assembly will decide on the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, to the question of mags. Milana M. Szvikla on the transparency of public spending at the Ministry of Finance. Anybody want a word? Mr. Mag. Milan M. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u147	Yesterday afternoon, the meeting in this National Assembly was relatively small, so allow me to inform you why it would be good to support this proposal of a procedural decision, in accordance with the so-called "yes" vote. Yesterday, I congratulated the Minister of Finance first of all that he had responded well to criticising the wrong decision made by the former Development Fund, which gave its Director Rozic 150,000 euros in credit and was quickly repaid as a result of the minister's reaction. The minister and I quickly discovered that it would be wrong for the minister or state officials to borrow state money. That's what banks are for. Secondly, we have also heard from the Minister, at least implicitly, that when he comes to the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, he will tell us how he is doing in the field of the Paediatric Clinic, because now Mr Janez Janša is no longer defending Mr Bručan. Therefore, the fundamental question that is worth discussing today is what the Minister will do about the lack of transparency in public money spending and the lack of use of public procurement in the tender at the Ministry of Culture. The Minister said that he already has a report from the accounting inspectorate in front of him in his files, and the Ministry has to prepare an answer. Since this will be in about 30 days' time, I propose that we support the procedural decision to discuss at the next meeting why there are no more public calls for the Film Fund and why the Government did not protect the lady who warned of the irregularities in the Film Fund, but did not wrongly resolve it. It's good to talk about it here too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u148	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 40. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Here you go, mag. Squeak, what do you want? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u149	Mr President, I do not think I will violate any procedural and business provisions. We're at point 1, Members' questions. Point 1 has now been given a document called the written questions and initiatives for several months now. It is 13 documents of the questions sent, which we hear every month that the Government has not prepared the answers to them. My procedural proposal is the following - to ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia whether it will answer the question of Member Mir Petk from 1.3.2007 on the operation of NLB branches abroad, on the question of Mr Dimitri Kovacic, Mr Rudolf Petan, Mr Zvonk Černač, Mr Dimitri Kovacic and so on. I think these Members are entitled to the answers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which they have set up in accordance with their constitutional rights, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia treats Members of the ruling coalition quite unfriendly. [[Laugh.]] I would therefore suggest that if this is funny for you to protect your parliamentary rights. Or it was funny that you even asked these questions. And that's probably the truth. These questions were raised in order to throw themselves at the Lord of the former Governor Gaspari, so that they would not also choose Mr Andrej Rant in this National Assembly. Therefore, it seems to me that the abuse of the National Assembly, if Members who have asked the question of the Member, suddenly seems to be a funny question. I think it's a very serious question if someone insinuates that the government doesn't control LHB Frankfurt. You know, in the LHB Frankfurt control council, Mr. Igor Bavčar sits [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u150	Mr. Squeakl, I'd like to ask for a procedural proposal. What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u151	The procedural proposal is very simple - that the National Assembly under point 1 raises a clear question to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia when it will be an exception to parliamentary questions from 1 to 13 - the question under numbers 11, 12 and 13 - when will the Government fulfil its obligation under the Rules of Procedure to answer written questions within 30 days. I think this is minimal, and I propose to protect the interests of Member Petka, Kovacic, Petana, Černača, Kovacic [[Again]] , Jelinčič and so on, so we can get those answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-25-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I would only answer that this is not the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, as you suggest. At the same time, with regard to these written questions, the Government has already been warned that it must respond to this by the rules of procedure. I interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue on Monday, 1 October 2007. I hereby adjourn the 31st session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow morning at 9 a.m.
