ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u1	Good morning and a nice greeting from your fellow Member, fellow Members! We continue with the 31st session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed and inform you that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, mag. Milan M. Cwickl, Ferry Horvat, Bojan Kontic, Milan Friday from 2 p.m. forward, Michael Prevc, mag. Anton Rop, Joseph Skolcz and Aloys Sok. And we're moving on to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPORT OF THE IMPLEMENTATION AND SURVEILLANCE LAW. I'd like to inform you that we have 1 hour n 50 minutes scheduled for this point. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Robert Marolt, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The most recent amendments and the addition of the law on enforcement and insurance adopted at the end of last year were aimed at establishing a legal basis for an informationised enforcement procedure. With a view to simplifying and expediting the enforcement procedure, and also to decommissioning judges, experts and referees in particular the enforcement phase, the exclusive competence of the District Court in Ljubljana, the Central Department of the authentic instrument, which will decide on these proceedings, has been laid down for the purpose of managing the enforcement process, as well as for decommissioning of judges, experts and judicial referees. At the end of July of this year, the Supreme Court, which, in the context of twinning, warned the Ministry of Justice, in the context of the project to reduce judicial backlogs, between the Slovenian and German judiciary, that the law does not yet adequately regulate the method of verifying the payment of a judicial fee in these proceedings, therefore the main reason for the proposed law to provide an adequate legal basis for the technical execution of the payment and proof of the payment of judicial fees in the enforcement procedure on the basis of a authentic instrument. The application for enforcement on the basis of a authentic instrument submitted by the creditor by electronic means shall be subject to payment of a court fee indicating the reference number to be communicated by the court to the debtor by electronic means. In this case, the debtor will no longer have to attach evidence in the original written form of payment of the court fee, but the court will only verify that the party in the enforcement procedure has paid the court fee. This significantly simplifies the procedure and, above all, removes administrative obstacles and proves the payment of court fees. However, the proposed supplement is particularly important for mass creditors, such as banks, insurance companies and some public utility companies, which will thus allow for more efficient and faster application of enforcement proposals based on a credible instrument. In addition, some other shortcomings of the law in force, to which the courts have pointed, are addressed by law. In doing so, I would also point out that this also allows those courts that are conducting enforcement procedures to obtain, in individual cases, information from information collections of state authorities, local authorities, public authorities, on the basis of direct electronic access. In this way, courts are allowed to operate more efficiently and more expeditiously in individual cases and, on the other hand, national authorities are burdened by the conduct of separate data transmission procedures, which will be carried out by the application equipment or automated information system in accordance with this legal basis instead of staff. When it is provided that the Court will have access to the computerised data, indicating which data is required, the personal name and birthday or the single parent number, i.e. the emsha, or the address of the residence of the party or other persons to whom the data is requested, and the uniform number of the court concerned, that is the case number, the reference number or any other unique number of the case, as well as, where appropriate, the appropriate period within which the requested data are to be transmitted to the courts, it shall be possible, at the same time and in accordance with the law on the protection of personal data, to show for each access, which data has been examined, when the legal data for inspection and the purpose of their processing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Happy Hwauc, to introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your word, Your Honor. At its 40th meeting, on 20.9.2007, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and insurance submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. At its 106th serious meeting on 14 September 2007, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. The representative presented the essential solutions to the proposed amendments, the main purpose of which is to establish a rapid, efficient and cost-effective enforcement process on the basis of a credible instrument, given the fact that 80% of the judicial backlogs fall within the scope of enforcement. The second purpose of the amendments is to comply with Council and European Parliament Regulation No 805 of 21 April 2004. The representative of the applicant further expressed his support for the proposed amendments to Articles 3 and 7 and said that they were essential for the successful and effective implementation of the enforcement procedures on the basis of a credible list in the new Central Department of the authentic instrument. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service initially said that the comments of the service to Article 3 had already been duly taken into account and, with regard to the amendment to Article 7, he said that the proposed solution from a substantive point of view was incontrovertible, but had doubts as to the technical or legal aspects. In the debate, individual members and members of the opposition committee mainly expressed the view that there were too many changes to existing legislation adopted under urgent procedures. The representative of the applicant then explained that three novels of the law on enforcement and insurance had been adopted during this mandate, but none of them contained systemically and by the Constitutional Court repealed provisions. The recent amendments to the Act were prepared in cooperation with the Court of Justice, in particular the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia or in cooperation with the Registry of this Court and its IT Centre. In line with the Court's warnings that these amendments and additions should be introduced into the law, it is necessary, from an economic point of view and from the start of the registration, to deal with the law in an urgent manner, otherwise the amendment of the legislation will also be approached in the future, where this is necessary in order to simplify and generalise the proceedings, in particular in the area of the abolition of judicial backlogs and the provision of a constitutional right to trial within a reasonable time. Such legislative changes thus do not constitute any specificity, as established practice in all countries is Western democracy. The representative of the proposer further said with regard to the amendment to Article 7 that that provision should be included in the draft law in question in terms of rationality, and that provision should therefore be included in this system law in the Law on the Courts. The proposed law has been amended by the coalition groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, Articles 3 and 7 and has both been adopted. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. An integral part of this report is a complementary draft law prepared by the Committee by including the amendments adopted in the draft law for the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of individual parliamentary groups. Mr Anton Kokalj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u6	Good-bye, everyone. The Supreme Court, in its 2006 annual report, reports that the area of enforcement remains uncontrollable. In 2006 alone, the courts received 148,924 new cases and, together with the cases of previous years, had them in Part 430,341. Unfortunately, there are 64.5% of those who fall behind in court. In the structure, 85% of the cases represent enforcement matters on the basis of a authentic instrument. In 2006, it was precisely because of the uncontrollable situation with the amendment of the law on enforcement and insurance that the legal basis for the entry into force of the Central Department of the authentic instrument was laid at the District Court in Ljubljana. With this new novel, which we are considering today, this section will be able to function normally and in addition to eliminating the non-compliance of the provisions of the law with the EU regulation. Amendments to the law shall establish a legal basis for the proof and verification of the payment of the court fee. In the enforcement procedure on the basis of a authentic instrument, the court fee will be paid by indicating the previously assigned reference number. The taxable person will have to give a reference number when paying the court fee. For a proposal for enforcement on the basis of a authentic instrument sent by the creditor by mail, he will have to pay a judicial fee for the proposal and the enforcement decision. In so doing, he shall indicate the reference number for the payment of the court fee. The debtor will not have to pay the fee at the time of the occurrence of such an obligation, but upon receipt of the order sent to him by the court in accordance with the regulation, the competent authority for the correction and cancellation of the enforcement order shall be the authority which decides on the claim at the first stage or has drawn up a public instrument. This amendment will also accelerate enforcement on real estate, as it lays down a penalty for customers who do not place a purchase in the public auction within the time limit laid down in the sales order. There was a lot of talk on the mother's working body about rapid and frequent legislative changes. I would like to point out that the rapid response to the perceived problem only increases legal certainty. The government, or the Ministry of Justice, is obviously not waiting for sufficient comments to be made to go into more extensive changes in the law, but wants to quickly correct the situation and problems of people who thus solve their living and existential problems. Rapid changes may cause confusion, but if changes are made in a way that is premeditated and in connection with expertise and practice, there is no reason not to support them in the New Slovenia Group. Of course, it should be stressed that the legislation adopted must be respected as consistently as it has been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Colleague Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u8	Dear Vice President! Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed law considers that this bill would establish an appropriate legal basis for demonstrating the payment of a court fee and setting a shorter time limit of eight days for the subsequent payment of a fee. This would meet the condition for the smooth functioning of the Central Department of the authentic instrument. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party agree, of course, with the necessity of this law. We all know that such or other backlogs are a particular problem and a constant in our judicial system, which is difficult to solve overnight. It is true, however, that by adopting or amending certain laws, one of them is today's bill, at least the possibility of improvements in this area will be increased if it is not fully resolved. There have already been changes to this law in 2006 when customers and courts were allowed to operate electronically. However, the applicant considers that certain adjustments are necessary for this electronic operation and for the automated processing of proposals and for the verification of payments, and for the payment of court fees relating to telephone numbers. It is therefore necessary to provide a legal basis for a technically possible electronic payment procedure and verification of the payment of a judicial fee in the enforcement procedure. We believe that this would contribute to significant improvements to the speed of the procedure. In our view, the bill is even more useful after some amendments have been adopted and aimed at effectively addressing the problem. Given that the procedures for proofing and verifying the court fee would be simplified and accelerated, more importantly, we support the proposed amendments. The Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group will therefore vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Comrade Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! By now, it has been heard what the law or the bill says, so it probably has no use to repeat it. Let me say that the DeSUS Group will support the marriage. It's about regulating an area that's definitely very hot. The situation in this area is very difficult. The issue is that the Government is trying to respond by proposing more or less more happy solutions in this area. Since it is not a particular weight in terms of political or ideological definitions relating to the law, I suppose we will all support it. But in the background, it's something else. This is a business culture problem with us in Slovenia, it is a problem of respect for payment deadlines and everything else, which we record as a terribly pressing problem. There are over 100,000 cases of deliberative cases waiting for us, burdening the work of those who have to deal with it, and this is caused by a business culture that is in some rudimentary capitalist form with us, which has not yet grown and will cause similar problems, I suppose, for a while. This is done by those business entities or those entities in general who judge that this business culture, in which we live, allows us to live as much and as easily as possible, if we do not respect agreed rules and laws, if we follow the principle, we will find ourselves acting by making promises and we do not intend to keep these promises. It is a paying discipline, so we are warned by business entities, including those who themselves violate payment discipline, in fact, on the dog. This amendment will not make much difference in this area, so this will remain a task for the government and for the coalition that has entered this into the coalition contract in order to remove this, and a further task. The ambition of the law is to partially improve the situation in this area in order to harmonise physical or technical options and regulations, domestic and foreign. It is ambition to come to a better control of procedural assumptions, which enable us to carry out all these obligations. And the ambition is to sanction those who are trying to abuse the current way of auctions. We can therefore promise more rapid procedures in this regard, we can promise better control, a reduction in the backlog in the judiciary, possibly a faster payment of the debt. However, the problems of business culture and pay-as-you-go non-discipline remain. And this law, if anything, will only help in the palliative form, that is, in a soothing form. The causes remain, but some of the consequences may only be more favourable.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. The applicable law on enforcement and insurance was amended at the end of 2006. A legal basis has also been laid for the functioning of the Central Department of the authentic instrument before the District Court of Ljubljana, which is solely responsible for deciding on proposals for enforcement on the basis of a authentic instrument. This amendment sets out the e-commerce of the parties and the courts in these proceedings. However, the amendment of the law now before us provides an appropriate legal basis for a technically possible electronic procedure for payment and verification of the payment of a court fee. The payment of a court fee for the submission of a proposal for enforcement on the basis of a authentic instrument shall be determined as a procedural assumption. The payment of a court fee as a procedural provision is also provided for the lodging of a legal remedy against the enforcement decision. The proposed novelties are also aligned with the Council and European Parliament Regulation establishing a European task for the enforcement of non-controversial claims. In this way, the annulment will confirm the enforceability of the decision or public instrument on the basis of the provisions of the EU legal act directly applicable in the Republic of Slovenia, the competent authority that decides on the claim at the first stage or has drawn up a public instrument and no longer the executing court. However, by adopting an amendment to the draft law on the home working body, a solution has been adopted to help ensure that procedures in the new central enforcement department run quickly and efficiently on the basis of a credible charter, through direct access and integration and direct electronic access of the courts to all computerised records. It is known that in the field of execution in Slovenia the most judicial backlogs are known. For this reason, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we support any changes to the law that will in any way help reduce these. It is clear that the abolition of judicial backlogs is not only one of the fundamental objectives in Slovenia but also in the rest of the European Union. The Coalition Treaty also states that the priority coalitions will be to reduce judicial backlogs. We attach this to the Slovenian Democratic Group of Members, so we will support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u13	Thank you very much. My colleague, Miran Potrč, will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! It is difficult to oppose the proposal of the law if the Government informs us that if we do not accept changes and additions, a system will not be implemented to ensure enforcement on the basis of a credible charter on an electronic basis. When the government proposed this amendment to us in November 2006. She said that she wanted to make an important contribution to overcoming delays in the area of enforcement. And we welcome that. Today it is possible to speak in the way the coalition colleagues say, in order to ensure the implementation of this law, or to say what the Government has said in other words. It was superficial in November, and in November it prepared a law that could not be implemented if no amendments were adopted and additions would remain blank letters on paper. Whether it is possible for the Government, whether today it is argued that it has coordinated the law with the judicial authorities and that it is their fault that it has not already determined in November what should be done, praised or not, is a great question. I must say that, I hope to state, and you can go watch our debates on behalf of the Group of Members, that we have been relatively friendly and tolerant so far. But I think the question is, is it right that we're still here? Look, we have reviewed the amendments and additions proposed by the Government in the field of justice in this mandate. There are 41 laws in total, two thirds in urgent or reduced proceedings. The Law on Enforcement and Insurance has been amended five times as of today. We have amended the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office four times, the Law on Courts, the Law on the Court Register and the Law on Judicial Service three times. And always by emergency and short-circuit procedure. And always with the same explanation that we have found that this is necessary and necessary and that without it we will not solve the judicial backlogs. Ladies and gentlemen, we no longer believe that this is just an opposite response to problems. We argue that this is also a lack of knowledge of problems. It would be high time for the government to take this seriously, to decide how it will prepare comprehensive changes and complement certain systemic solutions, not bombard us day after day with changes and additions. At this meeting we have three, among other things, to extend the deadline, because before the deadlines have been met, the Government has found that it has set a short deadline for implementation a few months earlier, then one that we have considered yesterday, a legal examination which is also necessary and necessary, in which the Government says that the inability to carry out a legal examination is unacceptable, gives some additions and does not hope to promise how much this problem will really be resolved. It is right to say that such a way of working is not appropriate for the Government and the Ministry of Justice. However, at the same time, when a comprehensive question is not being addressed, Mr Šturm has an obligation to walk through the SAI, to study the functioning of the SOE as a government commission instead of preparing reports on the relevant commission, to speak publicly, also on secret locations, it seems to him that the main problems of the operation of the SOVE are the purchase of an hour and the purchase of an airline ticket for a doctor who has reached the President. The problems that I should really solve, and I have shown them, are solved through the engagement of the relevant professionals and through the engagement of the Secretary of State, but in such a partial way that we are always at the point of saying, "We must accept this, because otherwise it will be worse." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the position of the parliamentary groups. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote item, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda or at 17.40. And by doing so, I interrupt this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union. We have an estimated 55 minutes for this point. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Dr Mitjo Slavinec. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the floor to Mr Srečk Hvauc, Vice-President of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, to supplement his explanation. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At its 36th meeting, on 12.9.2007, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending the law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government on EU matters submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following a reduced procedure by a group of Members with a first-signed Dr. Mitjo Slavinec. At its 101st regular meeting on 15.6.2007, the College of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. In its supplementary explanation, the representative said that the main reasons for adopting amendments to the current law, the main purpose of which was to improve the current regime or relationship between the Government and the National Assembly on EU matters in favour of the National Assembly and to increase the role of the Committee of the National Assembly on EU Affairs, to ensure that the draft law did not interfere with the rules of procedure and that it did not have any financial implications and did not require organisational changes in the National Assembly. The draft law interferes with Article 7 of the Act, which was adopted before Slovenia joined the EU, and since then there have been major changes in the functioning of EU institutions and bodies. Speakers believe that the amendment of the law before the Presidency of Slovenia in the Council of the EU would contribute both to consolidating Parliament's position and to inform the Slovenian public of what is going on in the EU institutions and in the Slovenian Parliament and in the world, in particular that the basic purpose of the bill is to reduce the democratic deficit by increasing the involvement of the national Parliament in EU affairs, establishing the responsibility of the national Parliament in the task of informing its citizens, which would also be achieved through open meetings of the competent Parliamentary Committee on EU Affairs. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure, the legislature has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects of the bill. The representative of the service said that they had no comments on the text of the bill. The representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for European Affairs explained that the question of whether a democratic deficit could be reduced by opening meetings of the competent public committees had already occurred in the second half of 2003 when the law was now in force and there was also in 2000 when this law was adopted. However, it was the opinion of the Government at the time and today that this would not make sense because of the specific nature of the EU case. This is the case in the vast majority of cases of content still under negotiation, in which disclosure of negotiating points or positions could significantly weaken the negotiating position of a Member State and could result in irreparable damage. However, the representative of the Slovenian Government for legislation explained that Slovenia, as well as other institutions and individuals in Europe, had adopted a very modern law in Slovenia, prepared according to the Finnish model, which, to the maximum extent possible, reduced the democratic deficit, as they remained the maximum powers of the National Assembly, irrespective of the fact that part of the exercise of sovereign rights had been transferred to the European Union. In the next discussion, the opposition considered that the practice so far had shown some weaknesses in the current regime, that the comparative review showed that there was something, that the Member States had open meetings of the Committee to the public, and that Slovenia had ratified among the first to ratify the Constitutional Treaty for Europe, which established the principle of strengthening the role of national parliaments and the transparency of their functioning. In their position, however, representatives considered in particular the reasons for the adoption of the law in 2004 to be the same as today, which is why there are no grounds for amending the law in force and shows that most of the other Member States of the European Union have closed meetings for the public. On the basis of the debate, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following decision should be adopted: a proposal for a law amending the law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union is not appropriate for further consideration. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u17	My colleague Mogo, thank you. My friend Lucky, I'm asking you to stick with me next time. I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law for the introduction of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Comrade Dr. Mitja Slavinec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present. When the law, which we are proposing today, was adopted in 2003, there was a talk on whether the meetings should be open or closed. At that time, it was felt that if the meetings were closed, it would be better. But things have changed since then. Most importantly, Slovenia has become a member of the European Union, and the functioning of the European Union itself has changed, the way it works. And precisely because of these changed circumstances, and also on the basis of the experience that we have gained from the members of the Committee on European Union Affairs at that time, we have proposed that the amendment of the law should be made open to the public, and only exceptionally open to the public, and still closed in all those parts, in all those points where this is important, where the Government really represents negotiating points, whose disclosure of the negotiating position would weaken, distort, and, of course, would want to contribute to the fact that the law would be more lifelike and that the law would also ensure that the Slovenian public is better informed about Parliament's work, about the work of Parliament at the point of cooperation with the European Union, and would also help to make our citizens and citizens' awareness of the European Union better, higher and also more professionally justified. Let me give you some concrete examples. More than 90% of the content that we are discussing on the Committee on European Union Affairs is of such nature that, or even elsewhere, they are published, as an example, when, at the time of the presentation of the programme of the Presidency of Germany, Portugal and Slovenia, this programme was marked by a degree of secrecy - internally, at the same time, Germany, as the first president, published the programme on its website on 8 December 2006, that is, a time before we considered it classified, that is, a confidential, internal nature. The debate on the presentation of the programme at GAERC was also public. Much more than that, most content is of an open nature. Therefore, if we turn away that the meetings are not closed and exceptionally open, but that they are open and closed in those parts which are of such nature, then we achieve that the law will be much more consistent with the actual situation and that the law will, of course, also facilitate work on one side of Parliament, but also the government. We have often asked ourselves whether citizens and citizens even know the Committee on European Affairs, or whether they know how this committee works, what it discusses. The answer was, of course, negative in most cases. It is particularly important that we open the meetings before the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union. In this way, and at the same time in accordance with the practice in other countries where the meetings are open, we will achieve that the Presidency will be more successful and also, as I mentioned earlier, an awareness of our citizens and citizens with regard to the role of Slovenia in the European Union in a more public and transparent manner. As is the case now, the initiatives and proposals of Members and Members are being discussed at a closed meeting, so completely open matters are now closed. For all of this, I suggest that you support the law to support the content of the law and that you do not mind who proposed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Colleague Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u20	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Representative of the Government, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, the proposal for a law amending the law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union is unfounded. The proposal that the meetings of the EU Affairs Committee be open to the public by explaining that the Committee must make its decisions on each case immediately after the conclusion of the meeting and that the material should be obtained immediately on the various servers is not taken into account, at least in our opinion. Let me just give you a few of the most important reasons. For many times, the Committee addresses matters of an internal or trusted nature and the inclusion of the public in the meeting itself could lead to an intervention in the work of the Committee. In the case of public hearing, the views of the Committee may be jeopardised from this point of view, even before it would be in the interest of not only the Committee but also the States. The fact that a closed meeting before the public prevents citizens and citizens from becoming more informed and aware of the work of our policies in the European Union is unacceptable. We all know that every citizen has access to public media, television, radio, newspapers, the Internet, where he can get acquainted with the work of these actors. In addition, there is a huge brochure and in Ljubljana even the European Commission and the House of the European Union Slovenia, where everyone can get acquainted with EU bodies, its work and decisions. Everyone has free access to all these sources of information. However, because of the interest of certain matters, we believe that matters on this Committee should remain closed to the public. In our view, the interest of the State comes before everything else, and always, especially when dealing with documents of a confidential nature, a great deal of caution is needed. The public is always informed of the Committee's decisions and it is therefore unfounded to report that the public is not informed in the case of closed meetings of the Committee. The proposer himself said that all information could be obtained from other sources, but we add that the meetings should remain closed also and, in particular, because of cases where sensitive and confidential matters or matters of high secrecy have to be dealt with. If the meetings were closed to the public, work in practice would be more difficult to carry out, especially with regard to the question of what to do in cases of confidential documents which are usually always intended to do so. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the current arrangements for the meeting of the EU Affairs Committee, which provides for closed public meetings, are appropriate. The motioner's arguments with the first-signed Dr. Mitja Slavinec did not convince us that different arrangements would be more appropriate. We will therefore also vote against the amendment of the law, as proposed by the proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u21	Thank you very much. A fellow Dr. Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Government Representative, Mr Krajc, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Everyone is complaining about the democratic deficit, everyone is complaining that the European Union's bodies are too far away from people, everyone is complaining that state authorities are acting on the principle of non-transparentness in relation to the European Union authorities, and everyone wonders how the polls show a high level of public opinion of the European population, if I may say so, of the disloyalty of this institution and so on. And when concrete steps are taken to reduce this democratic deficit, even for a mere hundred, if I may say so, they all go back and justify the mystery of these processes for such or other reasons. Two days ago, I think it was only two days ago that Day was the right to know, a day of right allowing citizens and citizens to have access to, to know and learn about all the important things that concern the community concerning their country, their society and about which they can and may decide, decide, cooperate or withdraw from, because they are not interested. This right to know is also being taken into account by the bodies of the European Union to an increasing extent. It is true, as has been said, that you will find the first draft directives on the European Union websites before they are actually sent to the Member States. You will find a whole range of materials, consultations, materials of all kinds, studies that enable both Member States and citizens to formulate their opinions on the subject of public debate and public acceptance in the bodies of the European Union or in the country. And nobody gets the idea that it's bad, and nobody gets the idea that we should stop it. Of course, we believe that the Committee on European Affairs also deals with things that cannot be public at a time when they are being dealt with. These are mainly negotiating points. At that point and at a time when disclosure of negotiating venues would in fact weaken the negotiating points themselves towards other countries or commissions, in any way. We're never members of the board, I'm a former member, we said we had to open public meetings here - on the contrary. The sessions must be closed here. That is why, of course, we believe that the committee should always have two jobs. Firstly, the public part where matters and points are dealt with that may be open to the public. And secondly, a closed part where a concrete negotiating platform is addressed. And that was the board's initiative. Nothing more than that and nothing less than that. That's what I'd say. If the committees were to take all the proposals for directives or other acts very seriously and consistently, this proposal might not even be necessary and this committee could, without my presence, only meet and stamp these starting points. But it's not like that. This committee also has too many substantive discussions and will continue to do so. As the time is running out, slowly, as Mr Vice-President wants us to be brief and saily, I will conclude that the Group of Non-Aligned Members is indeed going to vote against the Committee's decision and explicitly emphasises the fact and welcomes the fact that at least this decision is public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President wishes to work only within the framework of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which you, honourable Members and Members have adopted. However, we continue with the presentations. Comrade Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u24	Thank you very much. My position will be brief, not mindful of what Mr Vice-President or someone else wanted. Nor do we see great reasons why we should discuss this for a very long time. However, let me say that the DeSUS Group has a favourable attitude towards this bill, also on the basis of the experience our member has from the Committee's work. The law, as you can see, was proposed for adoption after a reduced procedure, so the applicants probably do not think that this is so crucial that they should split Parliament into two halves in relation to it. Although this is an opposition proposal, we, as a coalition party, consider that there are sufficient grounds for reflection and that there are sufficient arguments to support such a proposal. This bill does not talk about it in a way that is completely inconvenient, but it speaks of improvements being possible and we do not see a particular reason not to do so when it is possible to improve. At the very least, we will reject the conclusion that the law is inappropriate for discussion, and we will at least support the proposal of the law. It will probably not be adopted, but in this way we point out that such relatively simple legal changes, which could have an impact on the better work of the Committee on European Union, are smart to accept. Last but not least because the chairman of this committee himself did not explicitly object, but as I understand his discussion, he is also allowing for some modifications in his work. No one claimed that everything must always be open to the public. We will not support the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Possonec will give her position to the National Community. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u26	I also understood that the central problem is whether the meetings of this committee are open to the public or not. It would lead to better cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government if we had open meetings on EU matters. This would give the National Assembly a greater role or the EU Affairs Committee. The latter would no longer discuss and decide EU matters behind closed doors at their meetings. The practice so far shows that the EU Committee on Affairs at its meetings deals mainly with proposals for EU legal acts. In addition, the European Parliament has been discussing and co-decisions on the European acquis for many years. The Committee will thus be able to act on the same principle. This will make the work of European institutions even closer to Slovenian citizens and citizens. This would also lead to greater involvement of the National Assembly in the creation of European legislation in the future, which is also being pursued by the European Commission. That is why I, too, will not support the proposal that these meetings be closed.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Kovačič will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group does not support the proposed law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government on EU matters, which was tabled in the parliamentary procedure by a group of Members with a first-signed Dr. Slavinec. The Group of Members would like to amend Article 7 of the Act, by which the working body of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia responsible for European affairs and the working body responsible for foreign policy would deal with and decide on matters of the EU in open meetings and not in closed persons, as is now the rule. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party note that the basic law was passed at the time of the previous Government in 2004, just before joining the EU. The solutions to this law were the same or similar to those of other EU Member States. The essence of these solutions is that the handling and decision-making of the matters referred to in Article 4, paragraph 1, shall take place at closed meetings. The reason for the meeting to be closed to the public in these cases is that such matters are of a specific nature to the EU, as they are a process of negotiation where it is not intended to further disclose the negotiating origins of the country. In spite of the handling and decision-making of these matters at a closed session, all the materials for such a meeting shall be public and accessible to the public and the media, except, of course, those materials which are marked exceptionally confidential. Here I am primarily talking about materials that relate to issues of the common foreign and security policy. Decisions taken at the closed meeting shall also be communicated to the public, which is a specific provision of the basic law. The Basic Law also provides that all other matters, such as those referred to in Article 4, paragraph 2, may be dealt with by the working body, depending on the nature of the case and the importance of the hearing, in order to ensure that the proceedings and decisions are carried out at a public meeting. Today, when we identify the reasons that were in force at the time of the adoption of the basic law and have suggested that consideration and decision-making on important matters of the European Union should be carried out at public meetings, then today we can also find that the reasons for such consideration and decision are still the same or similar. It is understandable that it is not good to speak publicly about negotiating venues which are the legal basis for Slovenian negotiators in the institutions of the European Union, since in this case they would have discovered the cards and their strategic plans in advance to the negotiators on the other hand. Thus, at the beginning of any negotiations and negotiations within the framework of the European Union, Slovenia could be placed in a worse position and thus would be at risk of our national interest. I believe that no political party in our Parliament wants this. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group notes that the existing arrangements for the handling of European Union cases in the working bodies of the National Assembly are very comparable to that of most Member States of the European Union. That is why we do not see any reasons to justify the change in the regulation to date on the handling of European affairs in the working bodies of the National Assembly. As it is said, the proposed law of the Group of Members in our Group will not be supported or we will adopt the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy that the proposed law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Ms Darja Lavtijar Bebler will give her position on the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We support the proposed amendment to the law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, as we have also been Members of the Social Democrats among the drafters of this law. The reasons are very simple, but at the same time very weighty. The current practice of the Council of State for the Affairs of the European Union has shown that the fact that meetings of this Committee are normally closed to the public represents an important democratic deficit and opens the way for often insufficient government accountability to this Committee and to Parliament in a broader sense. Often, the Committee's closed meetings are attended by unauthorized representatives of the Government or individual ministries. The materials are often due to treatment at a closed session of poor quality. It is often too late or not. Moreover, even when authorised representatives come to the meeting, they are sometimes poorly prepared or even arrogant or sometimes even demean the questions, comments and proposals of individual Members, of course those of the opposition. The coalition MPs uncritically confirm everything that comes from the government. All of this can be done in this way mainly because of this, as we estimate, the meetings are normally closed to the public. There are no journalists in closed sessions, and they do not normally report either with rarely open sessions, as there are generally uninteresting topics addressed in open meetings. In the Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that, through the practice that we have become a full-fledged member of the European Union, it has shown that there is no real need for meetings of the Committee to be normally closed and exceptionally open, but vice versa. We believe that the Committee's meetings should, as a rule, be open in terms of strengthening the role of national parliaments, which is also one of the objectives of the Constitutional Treaty, which has not yet been established, and our national assembly has ratified it among the first, and with a view to ensuring greater transparency in the functioning of our Parliament and our representatives in the European Union. We are confident that by means of the amended law we would achieve a higher quality of work and a substantive debate on the Committee, greater responsibility of government representatives, greater respect for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in particular with regard to respect for the deadlines for the submission of materials and better information to the public on the positions that Slovenia represents and enforces in the institutions of the European Union. Thus, the Group of Social Democrats cannot support the proposal for a decision of the parent working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by the fellow Member Ljubo Germič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Good morning, everyone! In the LDS, we believe that, given the changes in the functioning of the institutions and bodies of the European Union, in particular the European Parliament and the Council, and the revolution in the creation of a new European treaty, it is time for the initial steps to be taken at national level towards greater openness and public participation by both the government and Parliament in EU affairs. This is increasingly the case in some EU institutions, at least in cases of legislative acts, both the European Parliament and the Council are discussing and deciding publicly. The Government's negative view that no change is necessary is based on the fact that the law in force has been drawn up following the example of the Member States of the European Union, in which national parliaments play a major role in the handling of European Union cases. In doing so, the main argument of the Government is still the same as in the adoption of the current law that the nature of the European Union's affairs is specific, as it is practically all the time for negotiations and therefore they do not wish to disclose publicly the negotiating points of Slovenia and the rest of the EU, and that most Member States have closed meetings of European committees. The second argument is that the Slovenian Parliament has a different or stronger role than the parliaments of the Member States because the Committees are open. However, the practice shows otherwise. In this way, the Government often sends proposals for positions to the National Assembly very late, even though the Council of the EU is well-known early enough, which certainly undermines the importance of the National Assembly. We are surprised by the clarity of the Government's arguments, as we can see that changes in the relationship between Parliament, the government and the EU institutions are also taking place in other Member States, which is perfectly logical because there have been major changes in the functioning of the EU institutions themselves. In this way, the European Parliament is increasingly playing a role, and the EU Council meetings are increasingly open to the public, and more and more areas or policies are becoming part of the first pillar, i.e. above the national level. Therefore, the Government's argument that there is no need for any change is not sustainable in our view. In our opinion, the proposal to amend and supplement the law is not a very radical change that would take any authority on EU matters to the Government, but merely that the sessions which deal primarily with legislative acts and other documents are open to the public. The legislative acts in the Member States are also dealt with and adopted in public and are under public debate. And EU legislative acts are nothing more than rules adopted at EU level and must be brought into their legal order by Member States. The role of the Slovenian Parliament has remained unchanged since Slovenia entered the EU. Opinions shall be adopted by the competent committees in the large majority behind closed doors, the public shall be informed of their work through public communications after the meeting. On the other hand, the European Commission is working and working towards better integrating national parliaments into the drafting phase of legislative texts. It has thus begun to forward its legislative proposals directly to national parliaments in order to obtain as many of their proposals and opinions as possible in order to improve and supplement them. We therefore believe that it is necessary to change the role of Parliament or to start a change in the role and functioning of working bodies, in that part relating to the treatment of EU legislative acts which are not publicised by the negotiating bases of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, we believe that this would be a positive step before the start of Slovenia's first EU Presidency and that after three years of full EU membership, it may be time to assess the relationship of the institutions and bodies of the EU Government of the Republic of Slovenia - the National Assembly and to make certain changes or improvements and to increase the role of the National Assembly with the ultimate goal that the European Union wants to achieve, which is to bring the functioning of the European Union closer to citizens and citizens. We will therefore vote against the decision in the House of Members, so that the law is inappropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Drago Koren will give the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u34	Have a good day to all present at this sitting! On the occasion of Slovenia's integration into the European Union, the question arose on a number of occasions, to what extent the Republic of Slovenia will be even more independent in its decisions and how the level of democraticism of our system will be respected. It is true that in the EU, the Council of Ministers is the central decision-making body and this is what has been mentioned on many occasions by the so-called democratic deficit. With the amendment of the Amsterdam Treaty, the European Parliament is also involved in decision-making processes, and our Parliamentary Committee for the Affairs of the European Union also discusses and adopts the position of the Republic of Slovenia. The purpose of the law proposed by the Group of Members with the first-signed Mitja Slavinec is to improve the relationship between the Government and the National Assembly on matters in favour of the National Assembly or the Committee on EU Affairs. Novela proposes that the meetings of the competent committee be open to the public because they are intended to be held in the majority of the public documents that the Council and the European Parliament deal with publicly. The meetings should be closed only; where matters are marked by a degree of confidentiality. In the New Slovenia Group, we generally support the intention of opening all EU-related matters because we believe that the public is still not sufficiently aware of the content of legislation adopted at the European level, but we do not believe that the proposed amendment to the law brings any added value. As soon as the Committee's meetings with the amendment of the Rules of Procedure had moved to a different date, there had not yet been an increase in public interest. At the end of the Committee's meeting, media are always given a public statement by the chairman of the Committee, and it should also be stressed that a significant number of open meetings are open to the public. The problem of reporting is certainly on the media side, as they must themselves try to show the issues under consideration in an interesting way, which is certainly more difficult for them because of lack of sensationality and populism. The Committee on the Treatment of Matters which are of exceptional and multiple strategic importance for Slovenia and the specific area would not be wise if the meetings were open to the public, as the presentation of the public's starting points which we are advocating in Brussels could cause direct damage. Since the Committee has several points of content at one meeting, it would also be extremely impractical if some points were open to the public and others closed. In view of the experience so far, it will still be necessary to consider and prepare certain amendments for the next mandate, but the change will have to be comprehensive and not partial, as proposed by Dr Slavinec. Amendments will need to be made by hand with changes to the Rules of Procedure, as the work of the EU Affairs Committee is directly linked to the business arrangements. In the New Slovenia Group, we will therefore support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, which is half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. We're moving to 20. POINT OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE ADOPTION OF THE AVENTATIVE EXPOSURE OF THE FIFTH PARAGRAPH 10. MEMBER OF THE AGRICULTURE LAW AND THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. We have an hour and 30 minutes of debate scheduled for this point. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mrs Marjetka Uhan, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u36	Hello, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! At its meeting on 14.9.2007, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the fifth paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. It follows from the text of the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation that this is necessary because the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia has, in order to understand the provision of Article 10, paragraph 5, of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which was created in the course of the audits of operations carried out by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, in recent years, difficulties in the performance of its tasks. After this understanding, the Fund is obliged to indicate the total surplus of revenue over expenditure in the state budget, irrespective of the adoption of the work programme and the financial plan by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Due to the narrowly interpreted paragraph 5 of Article 10 of the Act, it is questionable to carry out its key tasks under the law, including the implementation of agricultural policy, including purchases for a country of strategically interesting agricultural land and forests, as well as compensation for the inability to use land, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 72 of the Denationalisation Act as a new obligation under the Supreme Court judgment. Even here, claims appear unannounced and it is virtually impossible to predict the scope of claims; it may even exceed the financial capacity of the Fund, resulting in State obligations to pay claims or draw up budgetary resources. The solution to the situation can be seen by the proposer in the context of the adoption of the annual financial plan of the Fund, which would specify the purpose of the use of revenue surpluses over expenditure. According to the applicant, such a solution would certainly be far more rational for the country than the required annual payments of revenue to the State budget and subsequent re-supply of state resources for the implementation of the statutory tasks. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which considered that the authentic interpretation of Article 10, paragraph 5, of the Law was not necessary and that the law was clear. The panellists, members of the Committee, were divided. In the debate, some members felt that the Fund had no doubt business problems and that they needed to be resolved as soon as possible, but that the problems needed to be addressed by amending the law on compliance. On the contrary, most members felt that the proposed text of the authentic interpretation proposal was necessary because it ensured the normal functioning of the Fund and the performance of its most important tasks in the field of land operations. Finally, the Committee adopted two conclusions: "The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considers that the authentic interpretation of Article 10, paragraph 5, of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is necessary." Second conclusion: "The Committee of the National Assembly on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic fifth paragraph of paragraph 10 of the Main Act on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia be adopted." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Branko Tome, State Secretary for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, to give an introductory explanation. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u38	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. Thank you so much for saying that. Therefore, the Government proposes an authentic explanation for the fifth paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. This Article, in paragraph 5, provides that the excess of the Fund's expenditure shall be financed in accordance with the Fund's financial plan and programme - that this is the revenue of the Republic of Slovenia's budget. We propose an authentic explanation, namely that this provision should be understood in such a way as to determine the amount of revenue surpluses over the expenditure of the Fund in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the financial plan and the fund programme, which shall be approved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for each year. What are the reasons for this authentic explanation? The Fund shall operate in accordance with the provisions of Article 3 of the Act in accordance with the rules applicable to public institutions. However, the Accounting Act provides that the surplus shall be allocated in accordance with the law and the decision of the founder of the legal person. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also decided in the years from 2001 onwards when the work programme and the financial plan were adopted with a specific decision on the purpose of spending the surplus of expenditure. However, in recent years, the Fund has had difficulty in reviewing this provision, so it is necessary to indicate the total surplus of revenue over expenditure, irrespective of the programme adopted by the Government, i.e. in the light of the work programme and the financial plan adopted by the Government, to be budgeted. It should be noted, however, that the Fund provides for the performance of its tasks through its operations and that such a narrow interpretation of Article 10, paragraph 5, of the Act raises questions about the performance of the key tasks imposed by the law. The key tasks include two core tasks: purchasing strategically interesting agricultural land and forests for the country is the first fundamental task. These include agricultural land, farms and forests in restricted areas, protected areas, land in water protection areas, larger forest complexes, conservation forests and agricultural land complexes. On behalf of the State, the Fund must apply for the tender within a legal 30-day period, including the payment of the purchase within the time limit set by the seller. This is not possible for the fund if the purchase does not have the appropriate financial resources, the financial resource. The second basic task of the Fund is to pay compensation for the inability to use land under the denationalisation law. Even here, when a specific request arises, it is certainly more rational from the country's point of view that claims are paid as soon as possible. This is also why it is necessary for the Fund to have an adequate financial resource. By adopting the annual financial plan of the Fund, it may specify the purpose of using revenue surpluses over expenditure. Therefore, there can be a definition of the purpose of the use for purchases, compensations and investments. We estimate that such a solution to the state's position is certainly much more rational than the annual payments required for revenue into the state budget and later the re-commitment from the budget for implementation by law of certain tasks. Therefore, the Government proposes the adoption of an authentic explanation, I would like to repeat it once again: it is the fact that the revenue of the surplus of the expenditure is pardoned, that the revenue over expenditure be transferred to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the financial plan, in accordance with the fund programme approved by the Government for each year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Yelen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government. The Fund implements Slovenia's agricultural policy and as a good land owner owned by the State manages these land transport, leases or concessions to forests and is also committed to restoring agricultural land and forests in the process of denationalisation. The excess of revenue over expenditure shall be allocated in accordance with the law and the decision of the founder of the legal person. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also decided in the years from 2001 onwards when the work programme and the financial plan were adopted with a special decision on the purpose of spending this surplus. However, the Fund has had difficulties in recent years with the audit of the operations carried out by the Court of Auditors in order to understand this provision, so that it is necessary to indicate in the budget the total surplus of revenue over expenditure, given that the work programme and the financial plan are adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. With the revenue of the Fund arising from the management of agricultural land, farms and forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia, the Director of the Fund shall, in accordance with the work programme and the financial plan adopted by the Council, be in accordance with the consent of the Government. The way in which expenditure is exceeded is directly governed by the fifth paragraph of Article 10 of the Act in question. Of course, for purchases of forests and agricultural land, the Fund must also have its own resources for purchases, the most important of which is the surplus of revenue over expenditure. On the other hand, the fifth paragraph of Article 10 of the Law provides that the excess of revenue over expenditure from the Fund shall be in accordance with the financial plan and the programme shall fund the revenue of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, in reviewing the regularity and prudence of the operation of the Fund for the years 2003 and 2004, provided that the Fund should allocate the full surplus of expenditure over expenditure from 2003 and 2004 to the state budget, which the Fund also did in 2006. From this title, a total of SIT 502.3 million was allocated to the State budget in 2006 and the surplus over the expenditure of the Fund for the financial year 2005 amounted to SIT 1 million 306,000. In the light of the above and in the light of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly in the DeSUS Group, we assess that the provision which is the subject of an authentic interpretation is not clearly and in principle an authentic interpretation, but in the course of the operation of the Fund itself this provision creates a problem which the Court of Auditors has also pointed out. However, in order to enable the Fund to function normally, this is the implementation of land policy, the DeSUS Members will contribute their voice to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Member Bojan Homan will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Representatives of the government, fellow Members, fellow Members! Good-bye! The Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia was founded by the Republic of Slovenia in 1993 to manage and dispose of agricultural land, farms and forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. The mandate of the Fund and the basic objective of its operation are defined in the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The Fund implements Slovenia's agricultural policy and as a good land owner owned by the State manages these land transport, leases or concessions to forests and is also committed to restoring agricultural land and forests in the process of denationalisation. However, the Fund has had difficulties in recent years with the audit of the operations carried out by the Court of Auditors in order to understand this provision, so that it is necessary to indicate in the budget the total surplus of revenue over expenditure, regardless of the work programme adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the financial plan. It should be noted that the Fund is not a direct budgetary consumer and that the funds for carrying out the tasks are provided exclusively from their operations. Such a narrow interpretation of the fifth paragraph of Article 9 of the Law thus raises the question of the implementation of the key tasks imposed on it by law. The Government proposes an authentic interpretation of the fifth paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, namely an article which states that the excess of revenue over the expenditure of the Fund is in line with the financial plan and the programmes fund the revenue of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The authentic interpretation is proposed because in the past it has been found that the implementation of this Article is somewhat difficult. The Court of Auditors’ opinion raises certain questions and therefore proposes an authentic interpretation, which clearly states that this article is understood to mean that the amount of surpluses, revenue over the expenditure of the fund to be transferred to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia shall be determined within the framework of the financial plan and the programme of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, which shall be approved by the Government for each year. The objective is to explain by authentic explanation that when adopting the annual financial plan of the Fund, it is necessary to specify the purpose of using the revenue surplus over expenditure which the Fund can then draw for its needs, i.e. for the purchase of agricultural land, or for the payment of agricultural and forestry land, or for the payment of compensation in the case of the Denationalisation Act. One of the main tasks of the Fund is to implement agricultural land policy, including purchases for the country of strategic importance of interesting agricultural land and forests, including agricultural land, farms and forests in border areas, protected areas, land in water protection areas, larger forest complexes, forest protection and agricultural land complexes. According to the agricultural land law, offers for sale on the market appear daily and are therefore virtually impossible to predict in advance. On behalf of the State, the Fund must apply to the tender within a statutory 30-day period and also pay the purchase within the time limit set by the seller. All of this is not feasible for the Fund if the purchase is not provided with an appropriate financial resource. The financial rules currently in force do not allow timely payment of purchases by drawing on budgetary resources. It is not acceptable from the State's point of view that, due to formal obstacles, the country does not appear on the market as a buyer of strategically interesting agricultural land, farms and forests. The proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 10 of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests seems to make sense and necessary, and we will therefore be pleased to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will give his position to the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u44	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the authentic interpretation of the fifth paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia exceeds the purpose of the authentic interpretation and that such a provision as the proponents try to explain could only be written and amended by law. Therefore, the authentic interpretation is not a suitable form to address the Government's decisions that have redistributed revenue surpluses over operating expenditure of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me add that in the Group of Social Democrats, we have always tried to address the reports of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, that the surplus of revenue over expenditure is indicated in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests in Article 10 is very clear. After many years, the Court of Auditors also reviewed the operation of the Fund and found the same. The Court of Auditors’ opinion also in the post-revision report is that the amount of revenue surplus over expenditure must actually be transferred to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. While we understand the problem in which the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Government is, of course, when it will have to change the conclusions it has already adopted. Indeed, when reviewing the operation, we can find that the Fund realised the surplus of revenue over expenditure of 31.534 tolars in 2003 and also budgeted them. This means that, since the establishment of the Fund in 1993, until 2003, 10 years ago, the Fund has lasted for the first time to allocate any amount of surplus to the State budget. However, 2003 was obviously not so problematic because the amount was relatively small. A slightly different view was taken in 2004, when the fund had already grown, if we can say so, surpluses of 555,742 tolars. These are already more specific amounts, where the word appears to have run out, how and what it does with the money. The Government has concluded that 85,000 tolars are intended for park public institutions programmes, both for Triglav National Park, Park Škocjanska Caves, Kozjanski Park and Krajinski Park Goričko, and 470.740 tolars as a provision for compensation for the inability to manage real estate under Article 72 of the Denationalisation Act. Perhaps a good intent and an appropriate conclusion, but contrary to legal standards. Something similar then happened in 2005 as we follow the decision of the Ministry, which was somehow adopted by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture on 28.6.2006, and again directed 42,500 tolls to the business accounts of the public institutions, and the remaining 470,000 tolars to pay for obligations due to the inability to manage real estate on the basis of the 72nd Frontier Denationalisation Act already mentioned. The authentic explanation has consequences for back. So, as long as the authentic interpretation is adopted, it means that it has been valid since the date of the entry into force of the law, i.e. everything since 1993, and the purpose of the Government is primarily to try to legalise the conclusions of 2004, 2005, 2006. Unfortunately, we stress that these decisions have been adopted in contravention of legislation and cannot be legalised by the adoption of an authentic interpretation. We propose, however, that the Government change its position on the resolution of this issue and amend the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands, which could then provide detailed information on how the surplus of revenue will be allocated over the expenditure of the Fund. In doing so, we would like to point out that these revenue generated in accordance with the Fund has not been generated on natural property, on natural property that lies in the areas and in the municipalities alone, and that the municipalities, as such, have never received funds in the history of the Fund's business, nor from compensation received by the Fund from concessions for the management of state forests, nor from leases concluded by the Fund with agricultural enterprises and farms, nor from the sale of land, which are often not just agricultural land, but have the status of built-up building land. We therefore expect that, to the extent that the Government considers it, changes in the legislation will also include the expectations of municipalities that part of these compensations, part of the leases, will be part of the assets from the sale of building land, however, also belong to municipalities in which such income is also generated. In short, once again, let me conclude that in the Group of Social Democrats, we are assessing that the authentic interpretation of Article 10, paragraph 5, of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands concerning the transfer of revenue over expenditure is not unclear, is very clear and can be implemented, but should this article be amended, it is necessary to amend the law. Therefore, we will not support an authentic explanation in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u45	Thank you very much. My colleague, Gez Juban, will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberalna Democracije Slovenije. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We will not support the proposal of an authentic explanation at the Liberal Democracy Club. Let me first draw on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which is a sufficient basis for our position not to support these explanations. I quote the Legislative and Legal Service: "Authentical interpretation of the fifth paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is not necessary because the law is clear enough. It obviously seeks to remedy certain difficulties in the operation of the Fund, but it is not due to a vague provision. In fact and legally, such an interpretation would constitute a change of law, which is not permissible for authentic interpretation. In order to achieve the aim of the applicant, it would therefore be legal to take a proper approach to the preparation of amendments to the law in question." End of statement. We estimate that the problem referred to by the Government is not a problem in this respect and that decisions of the Court of Auditors such as this authentic explanation are not being resolved. At that time, the Court of Auditors, in addition to those affairs or structures that were in line, found that the surplus of revenue over expenditure had not been budgeted. And that was the main problem. And if we remember, then the former minister, who also ran the fund, defended that even some of the government's conclusions were that there was no need to dictate. And, of course, the Court of Auditors objected to the Government's decisions at the time and to the Fund's leadership that the surplus was not transferred to the State budget in accordance with the rules. If we read the authentic explanation and try to understand the desire, the purpose of the Fund's management, which was represented on the Agriculture Committee, in order to allow the Government to grant some compensation for damage, land purchases and so on in certain situations that arise over the course of the year, nothing will be resolved in this sense. The fund is a budget consumer, what was claimed to be not a consumer in the budget is a budget consumer under the law and the government can do so if a situation arises. If we follow an authentic explanation and compare it with Article 10 with Article 5 of the Act: the authentic interpretation gives the Government the opportunity to confirm the work programme and the financial plan, to give it new competence, although Article 5 of the Act already speaks of the Fund's Council's powers to adopt the financial plan and the Fund's work programme with the consent of the Government. It means that this power of consent or approval of the Government is already vested in the Council of the Funds, or in the Government itself, in Article 5. We are now transferring this competence with an authentic explanation, which is unacceptable, to Article 10. We move one of the powers vested in the Council of the Funds from Article 5 with an authentic explanation in Article 10 and give the Government some new competence for authentic interpretation. This is the business reason that is unacceptable, unacceptable, that this is how the problem is solved. Probably no one would object to the fact that, in the same course, with the same steps, in a reduced procedure, the amendment of the law would be exempted from Article 5, the Council of the Fund would be deprived of this power to adopt the financial plan until the end, and to grant to the Government and to transfer it to the power of the Government in Article 10 and to proceed business. In this case this does not work out, and we are opposed in this way, even a little dilettarian, in our own way. At the same time, I am asking the question of the purpose of this work, because you have said several times that when the provinces are in effect, the fund will be divided between the provinces or municipalities, which is supposed to happen in a year's time, and in this case, this is a work that is unacceptable in one way or another by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u47	Thank you, too. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u48	Say good-bye again! This time the position of New Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the fifth paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to understand this article by establishing the amount of revenue surpluses over the expenditure of the fund charged to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia under the financial plan and programme of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which is separately approved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for each year. Thus, Article was understood from the creation of the Agricultural Lands Fund up to two years ago, when the Court of Auditors requested that revenue surpluses over expenditure be transferred at the end of the year to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia last year. This has created problems with the tasks of the Fund of Agricultural Lands in addition to the management of agricultural land, farms and forests owned by the State, including the tasks imposed by the Supreme Court. These are, however, that the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests is also liable to pay compensation for the inability to use land under Article 72 of the Denationalisation Act. Applications appear unannounced and throughout the year. In order to avoid unnecessary court costs, interest and other costs, the State’s position is rational to settle claims as soon as possible. However, the acquisition of funds from the budget is longer and entails additional costs. As another problem facing the Fund over the past two years, it is also impossible to implement agricultural policy, including the purchase of agricultural land and forests that are strategically important for the country: agricultural land, farms and forests in border areas, protected areas, water protection areas, larger agricultural and other land complexes. Offers on the market with the said land occur daily on the market and cannot be planned in advance. However, if the fund is to purchase such land, it must respond to the offer within 30 days and also pay the purchase, and it is not possible to obtain the necessary funds from the budget within that period. The Fund sees a solution to the problems that have arisen only in the last two years, in the interpretation of Article 10, paragraph 5, of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands in the proposed way, in a manner that has been in force in the past decade. This means that the adoption of the annual financial plan of the Fund, approved by the Government, sets out the purpose of the use of surpluses, including for the purchase of agricultural land and compensation to beneficiaries for the impossible use of land, without pre-mentioned surplus being transferred to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and then re-existed from it. Since the purpose of spending the funds and not the task of the fund is not changing, since this has been done in the past period, we see no reason in Nova Slovenije to oppose the proposed way of interpreting the said article of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Drofenik will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u50	Dear Vice President! Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed authentic interpretation of Article 10, paragraph 5, of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is necessary and, in our opinion, brings a positive solution. The essence of the authentic interpretation is to ensure that the Fund carries out its tasks effectively. The Court of Auditors interprets Article 10 of the Law very narrowly, in the sense that it is necessary to indicate in the budget the total surplus of revenue over expenditure, irrespective of the work programme adopted and the financial plan adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. With this understanding of Article 10, the Fund is in fact incapacitated in the performance of its tasks. These include specific emphasis on the implementation of agricultural land policy. In this context, it also provides for the purchase of important agricultural land and forests for the country. It is, of course, subject to the legal deadlines for applying for the offer and also for the payment of the purchase. However, in accordance with our legislation and due to short-term purchases, timely withdrawal of these funds from the budget would not be possible. From the point of view of rationalising the implementation of the works and tasks of the Fund, and taking into account that the Government will continue to maintain the process of adopting the financial plan in the future, we believe that it is appropriate to support the authentic interpretation. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will therefore be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u51	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a debate on the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation. He is on the list of applicants - or he gets the word of Member Stana Pijk.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. There was a heated debate on the Committee on Agriculture, and we have already said a lot. However, there are still some truths about the operation of the fund and everything. The fund has to operate. It has to be operational. We've heard why. I mean repeat. And if it is not operational, it is to the detriment of all citizens, citizens, because we are Members here to represent the interests of citizens, citizens, it is right to accept this authentic interpretation so that the Fund can operate in the interests of the State and thus of all citizens and citizens. The current Fund Act, which was adopted in 1993, has been a very good year and the Fund has acted in accordance with this law all these years; and, look at it, the "schmenta" has been explained slightly differently in recent years. And I think there's a problem here. In order to avoid these different explanations, it is essential to accept an authentic explanation. And that's the whole point of being able to keep the fund going in the interests of all of us. We know for ourselves what legal opinions are that two lawyers often have two different opinions. In this case, too, it has become so divided that opinions are different. We advocate this opinion that the Fund must operate in the interests of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u53	Thank you, too. But to the word I invite the messenger Bredo Pecan. [[She's not here.]] I give the word "magic." Borut Saivitz. [[He's not here.]] And the Ambassador Marjetka Uhan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u54	Let me once again say that in New Slovenia we will accept an authentic explanation, because this has been explained for a good 10 years and thus operated in accordance with it. The Fund also received additional tasks following a decision by the Supreme Court. Lands, for national importance, were purchased essentially from money created by the fund in its business. This is supposed to return to the Republic of Slovenia's integrated budget in recent years, and this is now not possible due to the legislative acts that set out the way in which the budget is spent. These funds do not come in time and the Fund is hampered in the performance of its tasks. It is therefore likely that the only solution at this time is to continue to be interpreted in this way in Article 10, paragraph 5, of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands. That is why we will also support this authentic explanation in Novi Slovenije.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I also invite Ambassador Gezo Juban to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Especially now that I'm listening to my colleagues' explanations, I hope to say not to insult them so they don't know what's going on. The law in force clearly states: "The excess of income over fund expenditure is in line with the financial plan and the programme of the budget of Slovenia. What's wrong? It is only wrong that in the past the surplus fund did not refer to the state budget and we will not resolve anything by means of a mandatory explanation. To talk about the need for the fund to buy land, such as are important to the country, is a complete nonsense because it can be done day and night on the basis of a valid law. And that's what he was doing. The Fund must adopt a work programme: we will purchase a thousand hectares of land and a suitable financial plan adopted by the Fund's Council, and this plan must be followed. And with a new dictatorship this financial plan also confirms the government that we understand each other. What we will resolve with a new dictatorship - that the extent of the surplus of income over the expenditure of the fund in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is determined within the framework of the financial plan and the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests programme of the Republic of Slovenia. Tell me, what is different in this authentic explanation than in the last paragraph of Article 10? Nothing at all! It's just another line of words. Only at the end of this is it said that this financial plan and fund programme is approved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but also the programme adopted by the Council of the Fund must give consent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And there is absolutely no difference as regards the implementation of land purchase procedures or any costs incurred during the year. I understand the Fund's leadership that it's having trouble creating some unforeseen situations when it needs more money. Some land is offered. A thousand hectares don't know what kind of forest. And that's not what's in this program, but then the procedure-- 1,000 acres of land you can't buy from today to tomorrow. And according to the procedure set out in the law to go to the Government, because it also specifically states here that the Fund is also receiving funds from the State budget, the Government of the Boards may, at that time, make certain additional funds, since it has already acquired them in the previous year from the Fund's budget. And I don't see any sense, especially on this path, we should probably just design a dictatorship differently, as in this authentic explanation, in order to allow the government to agree, by means of a rapid procedure, to allocate some funds to buy a larger volume of land or forests. I don't think that solves your wishes. And, worst of all, jurisdiction [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Once the Council of the Fund has the approvals of the programme and of the financial plan, the Government has an additional government. [[...]] Whether we have crippled the world of the fund, which is yours, from the fund and you can normally talk to it every day; at the same time this is the responsibility of the government. And these powers cross. And if you put that on a higher level, this thing would fall apart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u57	Thank you very much. But to the word I call on the apostle John Webra. Here you are.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. I would like to point out that we have been working for several years to make the Fund's business as transparent as possible, and these efforts have led to the fact that concession contracts with forestry companies have been signed, and that they have also begun to generate adequate revenues to the Fund and that the Fund has also ceased to enter into lease contracts with so-called privileged tenants who did not pay rents for huge areas. Once this has been resolved, a larger amount has suddenly begun to appear in the Fund's budget than before. And if these amounts are already coming into the fund, then it is necessary and imperative that the Fund also justify its existence and that this transparency of business is maintained in the future. By adopting an authentic explanation, we are returning to a period which I hope we have already grown older in the operation of the Fund. So right now, I say that it is possible to say that the operation of the fund is entirely appropriate, that the Supervisory Committee is performing its tasks, that the Council of the Funds is also doing, that there is no big deal about how and what the Fund is doing. So it would be a real shame for the Fund to spend this way of doing business by accepting an authentic explanation, which will reopen other issues and there will be an untransparent operation of the Fund, so not only by duplicating these institutions - the Council of the Fund and the Government, which confirms the financial plan. So, which one of these two is the one who's finally got the authority to confirm something? This is one of the key uncertainties that has already been presented, and of course we must also say out loud that this authentic interpretation also contains a text that speaks of how the Government determines the amount of revenue surpluses over expenditure by deciding how these funds will be allocated and how much will go into the state budget. This determination of the scope is what certainly exceeds the purpose of the authentic interpretation, which can only be written by amending the law, not by authentic interpretation. I would like to point out that the legislative and legal service makes an extraordinary effort in each law and tries to highlight the shortcomings of the articles, how to improve, how to harmonise the individual text in order to comply with the laws, constitutional standards and other rules already adopted and to which the law refers or touches them. In an authentic explanation, I do not think the National Assembly is beyond the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. If anywhere, the authentic explanation is the one where I think the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is final. If the National Assembly is going through this, then, in fact, somehow, if I put it nicely, it has exceeded its powers and, last but not least, we can ask ourselves why in the National Assembly we still have the Law-Legal Service. Let's just give what the government is proposing, confirm and not ask whether that's right or wrong. The legislative and legal service is even more important because the government has reduced and reorganised, if we can say so, a government legislative service. On one occasion, the Government itself had some kind of control in writing its bills, so this control was also carried out in such a way that it went through the procedure of the government legislative service. Today the government of this service is practically gone, organized in its composition. So there is an even greater danger that these proposals we are making in the procedure of the National Assembly, contrary to the legislation in force, with the Constitution and all of this can lead to very serious problems when we try to bring individual laws to life. Once again, I stress that the Legislative and Legal Service, including on the basis of the Court of Auditors' opinion, has made it very clear that this article is clear that it does not need to be interpreted, but that, if we want to legalise the decisions of the Government, it is, of course, impossible by amending the legislation, since the amendment of the law applies from the moment of adoption. However, the conclusions already adopted unfortunately mean that there will be a need within the Government to seriously sit down and agree on how the public institutions allocated to them will return this money; or, first, to the fund, then from the fund to the state budget. Unfortunately for other procedures, we do not see this moment, and we expect that this authentic interpretation will not be adopted and that the National Assembly will thus maintain its credibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the one who annually approves the Fund's work programme and the Fund's financial plan. The Government also decided, on this annual confirmation by a special decision, to use this surplus: whether the surplus was spent on the budget remit, whether for the purchase of agricultural land and forests, or for compensation in accordance with Article 72 of the Denationalisation Act. In recent years, however, the Court of Auditors has opposed the adoption of the work programme and the Fund's financial plan to establishing a way of using these funds, so that the funds had to be allocated to the budget. Thus, the Court of Auditors’ position makes it impossible for the Fund to work because it does not allow it to implement the agricultural policy in a timely manner and because it cannot pay compensation in time for the impossibility of the use of real estate. Authenticity is the one that will enable the Fund to carry out those activities in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u61	Thank you, too. All the debaters who wanted it got their word. We will exercise the right set out in Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure and allocate the remainder of the time. I think we're talking 37 minutes. I ask that all those Members of Parliament or those present who wish to discuss this point be reported. I'm asking you to sign up. Two Members have a wish after the debate, each of them has five minutes. But to my word, I invite Ambassador Janko Vebra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. See, I cannot agree with the Government's representative that the Court of Auditors is preventing the operation of the Fund or the performance of those tasks which have also created it. The mechanism proposed by the Court of Auditors does not propose, but it points out that it is very clearly enshrined in the legislation and see what happens if this money comes into the state budget. The Fund, or the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance, which supervises and has its representatives in the bodies of the Fund, must ensure that the Government makes these funds available for the implementation of the Fund’s tasks in each financial year. And this may even be an advantage for the Fund, because you yourself say that you do not know how many decisions the Court will issue under Article 72 of the Denationalisation Act and what extent of obligation it will create for the Fund in a certain year. Decisions may be made within one year more than the fund has reserved funds in its account. However, if the Fund has a budget item in the State budget, of course in this case the state budget and the government may react and allow the Fund to carry out its statutory mandate. This is easier for the Fund in any case as regards the volume of funds, but I know it is very ungrateful at the end of the year to transfer money to the state budget and then re-elect it and devote it to what the Fund is supposed to do. I know this is an extremely demanding process, but unfortunately, the legislation is such that it is the only proper procedure that can and can be carried out at this moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u63	Thank you very much. And I call unto the word also the apostle Gez Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I'm just trying to tell you that you won't make any progress on this road. Who will now be the last to decide on the work programme and the financial plan. Article 5 states that the Council of the Funds shall adopt a financial plan and work programme with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It means that the Council of the Fund is the last to adopt, with the agreement of the Government, a financial plan and a work programme. Here you write that the financial plan and the fund programme for each year is approved separately by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Who's going to be the last? Will the world of the fund be the last, or will the government be the last? After this authentic explanation, the government will be the last. But it's still in Article 5 that the world is the last. Yeah, it's still writing because there was no change in Article 5. But if it is the same, if we also understand that in Article 5, the Government is the last and in an authentic explanation, then why an authentic explanation. If we transfer from the Fund's world the competence to approve the work programme and the government's financial plan, this is unacceptable for an authentic explanation. This must be a change of law. Is there a group of professional people working according to which the world is founded to transfer the powers of these people to the government, this is not the subject of an authentic explanation. And that's the problem. And it would be wise for us to leave this matter the way it is for one year, and then perhaps something will change. Unless we're all afraid there'll be no robberies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the government want to answer? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. On the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation and on the text of an authentic interpretation, the assembly will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 22nd point. I would like to thank the representatives of the Government and the Director of the Fund for their participation. And we're moving on to 22. Period of the day - firstly, a proposal for a law on patients' rights. We have 4 hours and 25 minutes at our disposal for this point. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 14 Members, with the first signed Mr Mirano Ptræ, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Zofija Mazej Kukovic, for further explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u66	Hello! A nice greeting from the honourable Member and Members of Parliament! I would like to give you a brief introduction to the Patients' Rights Act. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia fulfils an important role in the protection and exercise of patients' rights by preparing a proposal for a Systemic Law on Patient Rights. The State of Slovenia joins ten EU countries and two non-member countries, Norway and Iceland, which have already adopted such or similar laws in the last few years, by considering and adopting this law. The implementation of the constitutional category of protection of patients' rights as an integral part of the protection of human rights is being realized and expanded. A public debate on the draft was concluded in April 2006. More than 40 sets of substantive comments have been analysed. By May of this year, difficult coordination was undertaken with the Commission on Medical Ethics, Inter-Resort, between the ministries and others. The proposed law is a great novelty in the health care system, since it is very new to the patient, especially as a person, and to the protection of his legally defined and protected rights in the treatment processes. It takes into account the guidelines and guidelines of all international instruments adopted by Slovenia, which represent important international standards in the field of the protection and exercise of patient rights. The law wants to contribute to the design and upgrading of a new culture and the responsibility of doctors and healthcare professionals to the patient and vice versa, but not to the immediate resolution of all problems in this area. It is primarily aimed at preventing infringements or disputes between patients and healthcare professionals. On the other hand, the regulated procedural aspect of the protection of patients' rights contributes to the secondary objective of the bill, an effective solution to infringements in the event that they occur. In addition, the proposal for a law with a specific way of dealing with infringements of patients' rights aims to contribute to raising the culture of peaceful settlement of disputes and thus to moving away from the exercise of judicial protection. The proposed law on patient rights has also abandoned the idea of establishing a special guardian of patient rights. In preparing the law, the bill assessed that the current Ombudsman could adequately intervene in certain cases of violations and that his powers did not need to be extended or divided into several entities. In most cases, the patient's rights reflect the general doctrine of human rights and fundamental freedoms. The catalogue of patients' rights in the bill includes a total of 16 rights by which the law protects patients at all levels of diagnosis and treatment. It requires the proper organisation and responsibility of healthcare professionals to exercise and guarantee rights. The proposal for a law with substantive provisions provides patients with extremely important rights such as: the right to adequate quality and safe health care, the right to equal access to health services, the right to respect patient time, the right to information and cooperation, the right to self-determination, the right to prevent and alleviate suffering and the right to privacy and the protection of personal data. The proposed law should in particular ensure that rights are [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The patient's responsibilities will, of course, also be determined. [[...]] It is about balancing operators and patients and leading them to solve as many possible complications through reasonable dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u67	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u68	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. At a time of growing problems of the health system in ensuring the rights of citizens, increasing awareness of the insurance and increasing needs and expectations of patients in view of the development of the medical profession, on one hand, and could say the ceho attitude and monopolistic position of the medical profession, which is to keep an eye on the life and health of people, on the other hand, the adoption of the law on patient rights is an indispensable way to create conditions in which the patient can exercise his or her or her rights so far in imperfect procedures. The increasingly difficult availability of adequate and timely health services in the treatment process puts the patient in an increasingly difficult and, of course, tradition an unequal position in relation to the doctor and also the executive organisations. The irregularity of the area occurs especially when complications, unknown treatments, rejections, negligence and unnecessary delay, corruption, difficulties in explaining and informing, and complaints and, more recently, legal disputes occur. The main aim of the law is therefore to identify patients' rights in the provision of health services, equality in this regard, the right to choose a doctor, respect for the time dimension of patients, information, non-discriminatory treatment, the right to appeal and a second opinion. With regard to the way in which the insured person should exercise his rights when he thinks, finds out whether they have been breached, the law provides for the right to hear and complain, free legal aid and the introduction of a patient’s representative. In a thorough review of individual solutions, we believe that the patient's rights are well defined, although there is a need and some articles can be improved. In doing so, I am thinking mainly of the provisions on procurement, reporting of reports, handling of medical documentation, refusing treatment and interventions and others where we will propose a supplement. The second is, of course, the question of how to exercise justice. When they are violated in this respect, of course, there are a number of concerns: the patient's representation, the Minister's discretion over the appointment, number and operation of the representatives, the opinion of the body being the representative, the 76-member appeal committee, the costs of the appeals proceedings and so on, if I should just list some. The solutions, as the law offers, to the patient the moment he begins to solve his rights, are suppressed by the actors who have denied him rights, which we do not think is good. We also think it's not good for a patient to be represented by a representative. Counselor, if the patient concerned needs it, if he is able to do the job, the patient will choose for himself outside the system that he has wronged in any form. In view of the coalition agreement, we ourselves are thinking of the urgent establishment of the Ombudsman's Institute to protect, warn and propose measures to protect patients' rights also in principle by not exposing the identity of the complainants at first stage, including to avoid possible retaliation. In view of the above, we propose and expect that, in the follow-up procedure, the proposer will be able to adopt a provision to define the need for the Ombudsman and the time in which the Ministry of Justice should prepare the law necessary for this. In doing so, we strongly reject the Minister's statement that she has renounced in the coalition contract of the registered Institute of the Ombudsman and I hope that the whole contract has not been thrown into the garbage can, namely in the field of health and healthcare, the type of agreements recorded there does not respect, does not realize and, of course, forgets, which of course we do not agree with. If this model of thinking persists in this law, then at the end of this law we will not support it. At this point in time, however, it is expected that there will be a well-respected, well-intentioned view that there is a need for and possible to complete and improve the law in a variety of ways, that is, in this expectation and in the fact that I expect a healthy mind to prevail, we will, in the first phase of the law as a sufficient basis in our sending group, otherwise with a heavy heart, with what we have heard, be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Ambassador Maria Possonec will present the position of the delegation group, the nationalities group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u70	Thank you very much. While the rights of patients so far are in line with the international instruments adopted, they do not deviate substantively from patients' rights in comparable European countries, they are nevertheless inadequate. The existing legislation contains a transparent catalogue of patient rights, where the content of each right would be further defined together with potential exceptions or specialities and poorly regulated, non-conformal, opaque and ineffective procedures for the exercise of infringements of patient rights. The bill thus regulates substantive and procedural rights, not those arising from compulsory and voluntary health insurance. The so-called general rights go to every healthcare user, regardless of their health status, irrespective of the rights of compulsory and voluntary health insurance. These rights must be guaranteed to patients within the framework of public health care as a private health activity. The bill is intended primarily to prevent disputes between patients and healthcare professionals and to effectively resolve disputes and to contribute to raising the culture of peaceful settlement of disputes by further clarifications, negotiation, agreement or settlement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u71	Thank you, too. Ambassador Franz Jazbec will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u72	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are aware of the issue of patients' rights. This is a very sensitive area that needs to be addressed with all its responsibility. The proposal for a law on patient rights deals with the protection of patient rights in an integrated and systematic manner. In doing so, the bill follows regulation in a systematic manner so as to achieve a high level of legal certainty and equality. In particular, because existing or existing rules of patient rights touch on the laws on health care, health care and health insurance, the latter in terms of the exercise of healthcare rights. Last year, the LDS Club tabled a proposal for a law on the rights of the patient. At that time, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we considered this as a positive initiative by Members and Members to contribute to greater legal certainty and equality in the field of general patient rights by introducing a bill. In doing so, we have pointed out that the proposal did not take into account the activities of the Ministry of Health, which carried out activities in the field of the protection of the rights of the patient in accordance with the timetable. The proposal for a law on patient rights prepared by the Ministry of Health has been put into public discussion due to the complexity and sensitivity of the area, as well as to thorough and quality debates and preparations. This is precisely why the Ministry of Health has tabled a proposal for a law in the legislative procedure this June and the best regulation in the field of the protection of patients' rights. The bill also touches on a number of contributions from legal experts and professional journals. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that everyone has the right to the highest possible level of health and health care and the duty to take care of his or her health and to contribute to the realization of health care and to the extent possible. At the same time, we are aware of the need to regulate the content thoroughly and qualitatively. Patients’ rights are closely intertwined with the most important human goods, such as life, health, and personal freedom. Therefore, it is important to define them in the legal system and to ensure their implementation. One of the basic rights of the patient is certainly the right to co-decision on the course of his treatment and for which the State must provide him with good legal and real grounds. However, the patient will be responsible for the outcome of the treatment in cooperation. The law introduced by the Ministry of Health in the legislative procedure deals in more detail with the area of so-called common or universal patient rights and not with the rights of compulsory and voluntary health insurance patients, although there is a close link between them. The distribution of public and health insurance rights follows a declaration on the promotion of patients' rights, distinguishing two types of rights, while the general rights of patients who provide a level of quality of health care in a given country or accessibility to health services depend on the development of society and the related capacities of the healthcare system, and the individual rights of patients are those related to human rights and fundamental freedoms and the patient's spiders as consumers. The patient's rights are mostly a reflection of the general good of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and individual rights in the law are in fact an application of constitutionally recognised rights to a specific area of social life. It's health care. The law lists some of the general duties of the patient, since his rights are inherently linked to some of the basic duties that the patient has for healthcare professionals and health professionals and others. The patient's respect for duties, which are defined only by general formulations, is a condition for adequate, quality and safe health care. The law contains a catalogue of patients' rights, comprising 14 rights. The law lays down the right of patients, in individual cases also of their relatives, to be dealt with promptly and effectively by their claims or complaints. If the disagreement is not resolved in the first hearing procedure, infringements against the competent person, the complaint will be addressed by the Central Commission or, as the law calls it, the Committee for the Protection of Patient Rights of the Republic of Slovenia. The law provides that the members of the commission appointed by the Minister for Health for a period of five years shall be appointed by a public invitation to tender. The President shall be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The law foresees that the Commission will have 76 members, representatives of different professions and NGOs, and will operate in the smaller Chambers designated for each individual case. The law provides for two alternative ways to resolve complaints by patients, mediation is not a prudent procedure. Patients’ complaints shall be resolved on the basis of the subsidiary application of the provisions of the law governing the general administrative procedure, which shall also allow the procedure to be carried out. With a view to taking a decision on one or the other type of procedure with a view to a possible immediate settlement of the dispute, the preliminary action following the lodging of the complaint is envisaged as the first major procedural action. The deadlines for individual procedural tasks are relatively short because the law is based on the speed principle. This is supposed to lead to a speedy and rational solution, as the possibility of a successful settlement of the dispute is greater in the immediate aftermath of the dispute. If the decision of the Commission is not satisfied or there will be no settlement, then the patient concerned will still remain in court, provided that this is an expulsion request. The bill follows the objective of reaching an agreement with the affected patient to remedy the infringement. That's the first stage. Rather, it has concluded a settlement in the mediation procedure or the appeal procedure in the Senate hearing, a second step, since such arrangements or settlement are most appropriate in most cases not only because they are the cheapest but also the fastest way to resolve the disputed relationship. The law provides that the Senate, which will deal with the complaint, will propose or request, not an example, internal supervision, professional supervision, advice or administrative supervision if it finds certain irregularities in the operator. The Senate shall also have the power to propose a disciplinary procedure against the responsible contractor responsible for the infringement of the patient's rights. The manner in which the supervision and the determination of disciplinary responsibility are carried out is not the subject of regulation of the proposed law, but rather of a law on health and labour law. The law introduces an agent of patient rights to assist patients who are generally the weaker party in the appeals proceedings because they do not have the relevant expertise and other necessary information, thereby enabling them to exercise their rights as efficiently and as effectively as possible. Some infringements, obligations on the part of healthcare providers or health workers or co-workers are defined as offences for which fines are provided, and this is not a sanction for infringements of the patient's rights, with one exception, this is a failure to comply with the legal requirement for the consent of the patient to medical treatment or medical care. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Good afternoon to all who are present in the Chamber and thank you very much to the Vice-President for his words. We have been involved by the Social Democrats in the preliminary examination of this law and, together with those who cooperate, have found that this law is clearly needed by Slovenia and, of course, by our patients. It is a new area that is very welcome, but since there is no general practice in this area, it is likely that we will receive further improvements in the law later, regardless of the fact that the law is already under consideration in the National Assembly in the first reading of the law. When the law was introduced into the legislative procedure, quite a few comments came from the interested public, such as the Youth Friends' Union, the Office of the Ombudsman, the Association of Oncological Patients, the Association of Nurses, Medical Technicians and Grandmothers, who individually made a series of comments, which overlap in certain parts. It would therefore be useful for the Minister to examine or monitor these comments, which will be given today in the context of the general debate, to examine thoroughly, together with her colleagues, all the comments that have come from the so-called territory. They are well-intentioned, they would improve the text of the law and, above all, bring it closer to those people who actually make the law ready. It's for the patients. One such very general comment that I think is very appropriate. The term "patient" is just a foreign term for "patient." It is necessary to look at the Dictionary of Slovenian Book Language, Verbinčev Slovar tujk and similar, everywhere it is directly translated, we can say, "patient" in the term "patient". Secondly, what they would point out on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group is that it would be useful if the concept of health care personnel were brought together so that doctors would not appear as a separate group, once as a separate group, and secondly as an integral part of health workers, because there is simply no reason for any differentiation as if it were two groups of people providing health services. This is a comment from the Association of Nurses, Medical Technicians and Grandmothers. We would like to point out that the law itself is very complicated and difficult to use for a simple person, so it would be good to simplify some of the bureaucratic procedures in particular, and that the authorities concerned with the protection of patients' rights would be more independent. For example, the Minister plays too much of a role in the appointment of the Commission for the Protection of Patients' Rights, since it is up to him to choose freely among the proposed candidates, and it is up to him who will be the President or President of the Commission, as the Government appoints him on his proposal, and besides, the composition of the Commission is such that the weight of the medical experts on the committee that decides on the patient's rights is too great. The fact is that the Commission could use, by hiring experts, this also implies that the Senate could use experts from various fields to work, more independently, or there would be no doubt in the Commission's objectivity with the human river 'the crow does not rule out the eyes'. In our view, the number of members of the commission appointed solely on the proposal of certain independent institutions should be certain, not as the law now states that representatives of civil society can also propose to the minister. Thus, it would make sense for the Minister to appoint a certain number of members and commissions on a proposal from the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman, on a proposal from the Office of the Public Information Commissioner, on a proposal from individual associations and associations that bring together individual chronic patients or other species, thus ensuring that the Commission will also be independent of the Minister. It should also be said that in no case can the patient be responsible for paying the costs of the opposite party. In Article 66, such an option is allowed and the patient is definitely a weaker party to the dispute and could mean that, in the event that his claim fails to make a complaint, the Senate could also impose on him the costs of the procedure incurred by the health service provider, which could be a very serious financial burden for the individual. When we talk about the representative of the patient's rights, the law should define this representative as actually independent. So it's very questionable whether it's right to be called Minister. However, it would also be good to consider that we will have a short period of time and that it would probably be prudent for the representative not to be appointed centrally for the whole country, as it is envisaged that the representative's seat should be located on an individual regional unit or at the individual headquarters of the Health Care Office. So you could say that he could also be named by the provincial council and also have a working relationship with the provincial government, but not within it. The representative of the patient's interests should not depend on any state or parastatal institution. There's something else about agents. Here we also received comments from the Ombudsman from Maribor, who would be considered in the second reading, because her experience certainly shows that there is a lot of what is written in the law, it could be, without being poorly written down, but it could certainly be better written. And given that this law somehow plows the ice, it would therefore be useful to take into account not only its comments, but also the comments made specifically by the Association of Youth Friends, which expressly emphasises the need to establish the rights of the child in a specific article, under what conditions and in what way children have the right to accompany their parents in hospital and other health care. Don't forget. That's it. Article 1 of the Act clearly states that this law protects patients' rights vis-à-vis the health care provider, should this be the public health service, and should also explicitly list them later in Article 2 and private doctors and health workers, since the Health Care Act does not define other private health workers in whom the patient or the patient can exercise his or her rights. But it doesn't even matter. It is essential that the private institutions of Article 1 do not take into account or cite them, so it seems that only private doctors - individuals could be held responsible or could be subject to consideration in the provision of patients' rights, while private health institutions, which are no longer small in Slovenia after all, and are not all carriers of concessions This is also necessary to know. [[...]] By the way, I would personally warn that it may be necessary to consider, although we have recently adopted the Medical Act, that even in the case of physicians it would probably be good to introduce the rights of patients seeking medical assistance into this law. It's a matter of thought. I think that the Minister, whom I also particularly welcome, has the possibility of improving the law, together with the competent committee, to the extreme extent possible. With the amendments, there is much to be done and it would be very useful. We will support this law in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats in the hope that it will be further improved during the second hearing in order to improve the situation in the field of the protection of patients' rights in a simpler and accessible manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, Madam Minister, for your cooperation. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, some of the rights of patients are already defined in the 1992 legislation, with specific health insurance rights that belong only to insured persons, and in particular the rights that everyone has under the same conditions. In doing so, practice has shown that more than the content of individual rights is a problematic way of achieving them, as procedures are imprecise, complex or not possible. Since certain procedures are even overlapped because certain general rights are covered by health insurance rights, it was necessary to prepare a law on the protection of patients' rights. We regret, however, that today's proposal came on the parliamentary bench only after several years of waiting. We have repeatedly noted to former Minister Bručan the absence of long-term planning, which also reflected in the legislative activities of the Ministry of Health. We have been able to understand from the Ombudsman's annual reports that the Ombudsman has been dealing for years with problems that, inter alia, are due to a lack of legislation, including a law that would define the individual rights of the patient more precisely and formalise enforcement procedures, since patients do not know what they can expect and enforce and what the complaints are possible in the event of a violation of their rights. In order to ensure greater protection for the patient's rights, we decided in July of last year at the LDS Club to submit a proposal for a law on the rights of the patient to the legislative procedure, but the law after the general discussion did not receive majority support. We wanted to speed up the regulation of the patient's rights by law, since the current events had already shown that the protection and protection of patients was weak, and the government's proposal for a law regulating this area was not from anywhere. Although the Government's Law on Patient Rights, which we are considering today, has come to the parliamentary bench with evidence late on the forecast, we welcome it at the LDS. In the content of the law only regulates the area of universal patient rights and not the rights granted to a patient under compulsory and voluntary health insurance. We therefore wonder why the law does not cover all rights, both from health insurance and from all others, because such an approach would certainly be easier and more transparent for the patient and would allow him a easier and more transparent way to realize them. From the reports of the Ombudsman from Maribor, it is possible to read that the content of her work is intertwined with both the general rights and the rights of compulsory health insurance. This has also been demonstrated by today's broadcast on Radio Slovenia 1, which was the introduction to the consideration of this law. We can therefore imagine that such work will also be done by the representatives of the patient's rights. This alone raises a fundamental question as to whether the patient will be able to benefit from the right to free assistance in the exercise of rights and whether he will be able to exercise rights to deal with violations of rights under this law, even if there is a violation of health insurance rights. In our view, marriage should necessarily bring such a solution. From the point of view of the patient, it is difficult to understand that certain rights are enshrined in other laws because he expects to solve problems in one place as soon as possible. It would therefore be necessary to reconsider the content of the general provisions of the law which make such division possible. The list of patients’ rights is brought into the law of the law of the Law on Health and partly in the Law on Medical Services, and it is necessary to establish that certain new rights are also on the list. It is impossible to present in a short time a number of issues that raise defined rights. The fundamental question, which is repeated and applied to all rights, is whether they are written in such a way that they can also be realized on the basis of a realistic assessment of the situation and the situation in Slovenian health. In doing so, I would like to draw particular attention to the right to respect for the patient's time and the right to second opinion. Within the framework of the right to respect the patient's time, the waiting period, waiting periods and the national waiting list shall be defined, inter alia, to try to settle the pressing issue of waiting periods and to introduce national waiting lists. This raises the question of the reality of the performance itself in relation to the series of sub-laws to be made by the Minister and the very short deadlines set out in the transitional and final provisions. In doing so, the question of waiting periods is certainly not only the issue of this law, because it is substantially broader conditional. Therefore, we should already have a clear answer to this issue in its entirety today, as it will be possible to identify the articles dealing with this content in practice to bring about a number of problems, a disheartening and, consequently, a massive violation of the patient's rights. Therefore, we remind the applicant that in good faith, the guarantee of a certain right did not enter the excessive shoes and, in particular, entrusted the health service providers with an unfulfilled task due to objective restrictions and short periods of time. We agree, however, that it is imperative that this area be regulated. This also raises a number of issues related to the provision of control. Among other things, how can it be supervised that an individual patient is not listed on several lists, how will we know that there are no jumps in waiting lists, how will they be viewed? In the context of the right to second opinion, we believe that the right defined in the second paragraph is too limited to very difficult cases and that is why the question is how it can be achieved. The right to second opinion is limited to the provision of services at tertiary level and where decision-making on health care due to a serious illness has an important impact on the future of life. The question is, how can a patient with a severe illness, in the event that the right is not conferred on him, exercise an infringement in the appeal procedure. At the same time, the right to a second opinion is limited to a single right in life, not defining whether this applies to one type of disease or to all. Since the text of the law also includes Chapter 3, which deals with the patient's duties, it would be reasonable to consider not deceiving whether or not they would change the title of the law "to the patient's rights and duties." However, it certainly requires a precise clarification of the second paragraph of Article 55, which deals with the duties of patients to ensure that a patient who fails to comply with those obligations referred to in the first paragraph of this Article will not be able to obtain the relevant results of a treated and full exercise of rights under this law. Of course, there is a question of the definition of complete, so it is a matter of extent that such a patient will not be affected by rights. In exercising the rights and in the procedures laid down in this law, the patient shall be advised, assisted or represented by an agent of the patient's rights whose work is free of charge for the patient. In the LDS, we are convinced that patients need someone to address the issue and ask for help in solving their problems. This is also demonstrated by the positive experience of the Ombudsman in Maribor. However, this raises the question whether an agent of the patient's rights will really be able to represent patients independently in all statutory tasks. The main problem is that the representatives are appointed by the Minister responsible for health and that they will operate at the headquarters of the district health care institution. In doing so, it is unacceptable that only one who has a higher education in the medical and legal profession is appointed a representative. For we believe that the determination of only two educational courses is too narrow. Of course, all similar considerations also apply to the Slovenian Commission for the Protection of Patient Rights. In the LDS, we support the intention of the bill's proponent to solve as much dissatisfaction, misunderstandings and other problems as possible between the health service provider and the patient for mutual satisfaction at the point of origin. Of course, the time of 45 days in which an agreement between the competent person and the patient is to be concluded is categorically too long. At the same time, we believe that the law brings demanding, overly bureaucratic, financially very burdensome, time-consuming and, for patients, the locational most likely very remote procedures in cases where the resolution of disputes and misunderstandings is not resolved in the context of the first hearing. It is necessary to put yourself in the role of a patient who is usually weaker in these procedures and whether the complexity of the proceedings before the Commission will not rob him of the freedom and energy for the appeal procedure. In this regard, consideration should also be given to the impact on the patient of determining that each participant will bear his or her costs before the Commission. Furthermore, the question is whether it is necessary to set up such a large central commission, which, together with the President, will count 76 members and will also represent a considerable budget cost. Since the Ministry of Health will draw up an annual report on the state of the protection of patients' rights, it would make sense for it to be submitted to the Government for consideration also by the National Assembly. We still have a number of concerns and questions about the content of the proposed law at the LDS, so we expect today's debate to answer a number of questions. Since at the LDS, we have been working all the time to make the necessary law on patient rights a positive contribution to a higher level of health protection, to a better review of rights and rationality and to an independent resolution of complaints by patients, we will support it in the first reading despite the concerns raised and the comments already made by the public concerned. Of course, we expect the proposer to provide us with all the explanations and answers to all the dilemmas that will be raised by today's debate and later debate, and that the law will be supplemented so that it can also be implemented in practice. However, if further discussions show that solutions are not appropriate, it will also be appropriate for us to continue to act in support of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Ambassador Martin Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u78	Nicely greeted! Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we are witnessing extremely rapid advances in medical science, as the better economic situation in the country has resulted in greater opportunities for treatment and recovery. Patients have the right to receive the best and most recent diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and the State is obliged to ensure that this objective is also achieved. However, in practice, it has been too common for individuals to be dissatisfied with the relationships, procedures and results of treatment and the exercise of pension and disability benefits and social and health care rights. The patient is relative to the entire healthcare staff and the health system in a subordinate position. In addition, the disease that further weakens him contributes to this subordination. Patients therefore need much more help and advice, as all obstacles to the search for rights cannot be overcome and they do not know what violations of rights they can even enforce and in what way. Complaint trails are in practice left to individual health institutions and their management teams, which leaves the shadow of doubt, independence and impartiality in treating their complaints as they feel in a subordinate and unequal situation. For all these reasons in New Slovenia, we welcome the proposal for a law on patient rights, where all patients' rights in one place in the single law will be finally brought together. This will make it possible to deal more transparently and more effectively with complaints made by patients in appeal proceedings. The problem so far was mainly the lack of confidence in the independence and impartiality of patients who decide on their rights and complaints. The bill therefore introduces an independent representative's institution of patient rights, which is a key or very important novelty of the proposed law. From the point of view of independence, the new regime, which introduces an agent of patient rights, is very welcome, since it advises patients on the content of their rights and on the ways and means in which they can be exercised. Patients are not left to themselves, as unfortunately many times have been able to detect in practice so far. Since the country has a duty to ensure the highest level of health protection in Slovenia, the above-mentioned Proposal for a Patient Rights Act has certainly contributed positively to a better review of the patient's rights and also to a more effective and rational resolution of complaints by patients in appeals procedures. In Novi Slovenija we support the proposal of the law, as it will allow new complaints to be resolved as close as possible to the point of origin where obvious irregularities have occurred, i.e. at the first stage of the health service provider itself, while at the same time allowing all parties to cooperate in the short term after the event. The draft law clearly defines the rights and obligations of the parties to dispute and the legally defined reasonable time limits that contribute to the speedy resolution of disputes. Also at the second stage of the resolution of complaints, expertise and independence are ensured at the same time as the law provides that half of the representatives of different medical professions, pharmacies and health care and half of the representatives of non-governmental organisations must be represented in the Commission for the Protection of Patient Rights of the Republic of Slovenia. The presence of members of civil society is also ensured during the Senate hearing. This raises the level of patient confidence in the independence and impartiality of decision-making on their rights. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the proposal for a law on patient rights also burdens the judiciary and will certainly contribute to the reduction of judicial backlogs, as it allows the resolution of complaints at a lower level by means of settlement or mediation. This allows for lower costs of the procedure and a faster resolution of compensation claims, and consequently lower costs of compensation to the health service. Of course, it should be stressed that, despite all of the above, patients also remain at the disposal of all the formal complaint trails so far, as well as the judicial channels, if they are dissatisfied with the resolution of their complaints at a lower level. In New Slovenia we are aware that the rights of patients are in some way limited by their duties. We therefore welcome the provisions which also define the responsibility of patients, from caring for their health to following the instructions of the healthcare staff. We believe that the proposal for a law is the basis for errors and complaints to be dealt with as specifically as possible and specifically eliminated and sanctioned. It is unacceptable for individuals to suffer the reputation of the entire health organization and of most of their employees. In Nova Slovenija, we are aware that patients too often abuse their injury or illness and compensation in connection with complaints procedures in order to resolve their social situation. Therefore, the issue of the rights of physicians who are often placed in a difficult situation in the treatment of rights must also be taken into consideration in an arbitrary manner, as some patients overly, maliciously exploit their rights without a legitimate, realistic basis. In Novi Slovenija, we will support the proposal for a law on patient rights, because we believe that the law will make a substantial contribution to a more fair treatment of the patient as an equal entity in the exercise of rights, while at the same time, the law of the health service provider makes an informal journey to preventive treatment and to the highest possible quality and responsible provision of health services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will give his position on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are convinced that every patient has the right to an effective treatment, as short as possible waiting periods and a friendly relationship between healthcare professionals. Of course, in the democratic system, the patient's right to decide on his treatment and treatment must be respected in particular. This is, in our opinion, the basis for the conceptual design of the bill on patients' rights. We already have the same human rights and fundamental freedoms in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The patient's rights, however, represent a special set of human rights and freedoms, which we often fail to realize in everyday life. In our view, the democratic regime of the country must be expressed in concern for those who are in need, and certainly are in the first place ill. To this end, we pay taxes and contributions to all taxpayers. In the role of the patient, the patient, we are the weakest, the most sensitive, the most dependent on others, the most necessary but also the most sensitive, if there is no or too long to wait for, or if this assistance is not what it would be expected to do in general. Children and older people need to be particularly exposed to this. The fact is that a sick person deserves an up-to-date, corrective, professional and professional relationship of healthcare professionals, that is his, we can also say our fundamental right, which we also separate from our incomes considerable resources. While the Health Act lays down certain rights for patients, the practice has shown that the content of individual rights is insufficiently defined and that there is also an inadequate way of exercising these rights. We therefore need a transparent catalogue of patient rights where the content of each right will be further defined and regulated. We need uniformly transparent, effective appeals procedures in the event of infringements of these rights. The bill or this law brings these solutions. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are of the view that the very existence of patients' rights, which are properly aligned with international acts and do not deviate significantly from the rights granted to patients of other European countries, is not problematic. The bill does not substantially extend the range of existing patient rights recognised by the current Health and Insurance Act and the Health Act. Only a few new rights have been added, such as the right to respect the patient's time, the right to prevent and alleviate suffering, the right to preventive services and some others. The right to adequate, safe and quality health care, as regulated in Articles 11, 12 and 13, in our view, constitutes a qualitative progress in determining the level of health care, while at the same time linking the needs of patients with the ability of health care providers and with the ability of the health system in the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that access to adequate, safe and quality healthcare is one of the basic or initial patient rights on which all the other rights set out in the bill are actually built. Decisions on personal health and life are a fundamental personal right of an individual. Consent to medical care is not only the right of the patient but also, above all, the obligation of the doctor to perform the procedure only when the patient has been informed and voluntarily consented to it. In the context of this right, the most important explanations are the doctor's duty to inform the patient of the intended diagnostic procedures and the proposed treatment. The patient should be informed of the condition and the possibility of treatment in such a way that he is free to decide on a medical procedure. Therefore, we believe that the explanation must be such that every patient understands it, taking into account its health and mental state. It is especially important to note here that there are many things that happen, that doctors, either because of overload or for other reasons, ignore the importance of accurately and unequivocally informing the patient about his or her medical condition, but of course it is difficult to commit to this. Patients are becoming increasingly informed about their rights and consequently require an adequate level of information and health care, and in this regard the proposal of a separate law is of paramount importance, which clearly highlights the importance of patients or patients' rights by title. When I talk about respect for the patient's time, we talk about the obligation of the healthcare provider to take care of the shortest possible waiting time and waiting time. This obligation is not met many times. In the Slovenian People's Party we have been warning for a long time that waiting periods in the health care sector are one of the most pressing problems that plague the Slovenian patient and sometimes place him in total infirmity. Multi-hour waiting at the door of the offices, in our opinion, means something unacceptable and humiliating already for a fairly healthy person, something even more painful. At a time when we can buy virtually anything for our own health, we have to walk from door to door and wait for the date of the review, and they leave it to us more than once. The serious problem is waiting periods for specialist examinations, as it is clear that at a time when the patient is waiting for a specific specialist review his medical condition may be significantly worsened. It is the patient's right to be properly diagnosed, and as soon as possible, a rapidly diagnosed diagnosis also means lower treatment costs and thus saving money for other purposes, including the introduction of the necessary new treatments. We hope that this bill will, too, when it is adopted and enforced, help to reduce waiting lines for specialist reviews, although, for systemic reasons, waiting periods in health care alone cannot eliminate this law. From this place, we would encourage those responsible in particular to reduce, in particular, the time spent on waiting directly on the day of the review or other health services, using modern information systems and other solutions. We also believe in the Slovenian People's Party that with the changed organisation of healthcare work it is possible to reduce waiting periods for specialist reviews to a full period of at least a month. The bill seeks to contribute to the long-term reduction of patient complaints and related costs. In the parliamentary group, we support the law because it is primarily aimed at preventing infringements or disputes between patients and healthcare professionals. It is also important to regulate the procedural aspect of the protection of patients' rights or to establish an effective solution to infringements or disputes in the event that they arise. Although complaints in health care are rarer, either because of the weakness and subordination of the patient’s position or because of his lack of confidence in an effective complaints system. It is important to ensure that people believe or trust in the fair treatment of complaints in health care as well. We believe that the proposals put forward by law in this area are a pleasant novelty. We also believe that the proposed law systematically ensures that complaints are dealt with promptly and effectively. The alleged infringement will first be dealt with by the responsible person of the health service provider, if necessary, and later, on the basis of the complaint, the infringements will be dealt with by the Commission for the Protection of Patients' Rights of the Republic of Slovenia, which seems to me to be a bit excessively high in number. A good solution seems to us to be an alternative to resolving disputes in the form of mediation. It happens that due to the abundance of work - in recent times doctors have also complained about the abundance of administrative work - ignore what is very important to the patient, namely, conversation, explanation of the patient’s illness, comfort, understanding and not least successful treatment. It is clear from this that the views on the quality of care of the patient are very different. Complaints should therefore be taken as something that contributes to the continuous verification of work and the protection of patients' rights. On the one hand, the regulated system of complaint trails will bring protection of the rights and interests of patients, and on the other hand the protection of doctors and their co-workers if they are unjustifiably accused. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will therefore support the proposed law on patient rights as a good proposal or a good basis for further procedural amendment of the bill for further improvement. The proposed solutions are expected to contribute to the improvement of the health situation and to greater respect for and exercise of patient or patient rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor, on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u82	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! We can say, finally! After years of promise, after this Government has promised since 2005, and even after uncompromisingly rejecting the proposals of the law on patient rights proposed by the opposition, we have received in the parliamentary procedure a government proposal for a law which, I would stress, should be a comprehensive and appropriate solution to patients' rights. I would stress this because we believe that the proposal before us does not regulate it in the right way. The fact is that Slovenian patients are not adequately protected. That ways to seek out their rights are complex, unconscionable, impenetrable and also uncontrollable. That, for the most part, the procedures created an climate of mutual housing solidarity and protection, so that we can peacefully say that the rights for the patient even when they are entitled to it are almost non-existent. People preferred to avoid seeking justice within the healthcare system. And the fateful paths they've been looking for, we know they're long-lasting. For legal protection in case of medical errors in Slovenia at the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg, it is found to be inappropriate and so on. Here is a particularly problematic and disorderly area of performance. The investigation should be conducted outside the institution and independently, but unfortunately, as Dr. Rajko Pirnat says, I quote, the problem is that the investigation is being conducted by people who are colleagues at work. This, however, touches more on what I am talking about, the areas of justice and criminal law, but the content is linked. However, I believe that, even in the law before us, you have not managed to avoid it properly enough, at least for the first stage of the hearing of complaints, I can peacefully argue this. The trainees shall ensure that from 2006, when the draft law was presented, they have reviewed and taken into account a large number of comments from the public concerned, individual NGOs, as well as experts in this field. And that's not true. In view of the comments made on the draft law and after the various discussions it is difficult to believe this. Most of the comments were not taken into account and no response was received on many of them. In doing so, I refer to the recommendations made so far by the only Ombudsman who has worked for Maribor and the surrounding area, Ms. Magda Žezlina, the disregard for the views of the Association of Nurses, Grandmas and Medical Technicians of Ljubljana, the Association of Oncological Patients, the Association of Friends of Youth, the Association of Chronic Patients of Slovenia and so on. In this regard, I do not take into account the proposal of the Youth Friends Alliance, which has unsuccessfully proposed the consideration of children's rights in hospitals, as these are specific, as well as their needs at the time of their stay in the hospital. These rights should be laid down, in particular in order to ensure that the legal system and the presence of parents in the hospital processes are treated whenever it is in the interests of the child. The bill does not support the Commission for the social activities of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, which points out that the applicant has not given civil society and professions the opportunity to form a proposal for a law. Therefore, we propose to the newly appointed ministers that, after today's first reading, you take sufficient time and listen again, in our opinion, to good, justifiable and urgent proposals and prepare a new and substantially amended proposal, and above all a complementary proposal. I believe that many colleagues have expressed a similar position today. It is therefore necessary to allow the debate to be reopened, to take into account the expertise and, of course, I hope that, because it has promised so far, the Minister will also do so. We can agree with the proposers that the existing regulation of patient rights is inadequate, the complaint trails are uneven, opaque and ineffective, and patients do not know where and how to seek legal protection today. However, we cannot really agree in the Group that the proposed solutions are implementing simplified procedures that would allow for the quick and easy settlement of both parties in the process, thereby avoiding high costs. Finally, we do not agree that a proportionate part of the costs for procedures before the so-called State Commission are borne by the patient, although this will be established by this law. This will mean that, in fact, poorer layers are denied access or the possibility of complaints. It is precisely the procedures that set out the complaint trails, the so-called two-step solution to the infringements, that many experts believe that the draft law is not adequate, as the complexity and complexity of the bureaucratic routes may lead to problems with the implementation of the law. The good news can be said that such a law as it is now, is simply a waste of sand in the eyes, as many people who know this matter, such as the Ombudsman, Mrs Magda Szezlin, have claimed that this law is inanimate, that it will not in practice come to life and that it does not answer any of the open problems. The law does not take into account any of its solutions or suggestions that it has provided in its annual reports. Alleged infringements are intended to be resolved in the context of the so-called first examination of the infringement, the competent person of the health care provider, and later on on the basis of a complaint before the so-called national commission with a long title. Of course, the members of this Commission, which is supposed to be 76 members, and of course we are thinking and wondering what the efficiency of the work of such a commission will be, the members of this committee are appointed by the Minister responsible for health, or on the basis of a public invitation to tender. At the proposal of the Minister, the President of the Commission will be appointed by the Government. We estimate that such a solution is not good enough, that there is not sufficient assurance and opportunity for the independent, impartial functioning of the Commission and its President. The direct link and dependence on the government does not serve as a means to hope for a patient’s benefit. For the areas of the country, the bill provides for several representatives of the patient's rights, who will operate at the offices of the district health authorities, where they will also be provided with material and other conditions for their operation. Their number will depend on the actual needs assessed by the Minister. The Minister will also appoint these people, including these representatives. So, on the one hand, the material and spatial dependence on the institution, which may also be one of the parties to the proceedings, perhaps the defendant, if I say so, and on the other hand the representatives who will be directly dependent and accountable to the minister, not the public and the patients. Perhaps it would be a better solution - and we are also putting this in public today - in view of the fact that we are at the moment forming the provinces, these representatives would be bound and named on the provincial authorities, as the experience of the Maribor Ombudsman, who was appointed by the Municipality of Maribor, also points out. In this way independence is ensured significantly more than if the representative is appointed by the Government or on a proposal from the Minister. And in this sense, it seems to us that this solution is not good. The proposal for a law provides that the representative shall carry out his or her work in a professional manner and shall be independent and independent in his or her work. We absolutely agree with this, but of course it is necessary to give him the opportunity to be independent and independent. At the same time, it is quite unlikely that the representatives appointed by the Minister who will have their seat in the district health insurance institutions will truly act independently and independently in representing the interests of patients. Surely, though, it seems to us that you have given up the Ombudsman’s rights very easily and too quickly, as it was said today, for this may be the path that really leads to independence and independence. Therefore, we say that the concepts of law will also have to address this part of the only possible true independence and autonomy that we see in the Zares Group. Complaints and representatives themselves should be withdrawn from and from the health system and thus made possible full independence and independence. This is crucial in this matter if we want patients and patients to have real confidence in the Ombudsman. I think the only kind of guardian currently enjoys that kind of trust. I wonder whether such confidence will be enjoyed by a sophisticated 76-member Commission at national level, whether such trust will be enjoyed by representatives appointed by the Government and who will have their seats in the health insurance institutions. We also believe that the law has overly neglected and inadequately regulated a sensitive area of respect for privacy and integrated and individual treatment. Not only does everything have to do with data protection, but we all know and know and think that we are doing very little in this, that in the vast majority of our hospitals in the hospital rooms there are extremely many patients, even up to ten or more, and that so-called bonds still happen without taking privacy and an individual approach, as well as individual health procedures in this way, I will say, large rooms with so many beds do not provide the necessary privacy. We estimate that more attention should be given to this area in the law, more specifically, as it is in this proposal, because it is something that is actually a silent and unwritten rule and I know that this will not be changed quickly, but it is absolutely necessary to start working in this direction. The law must undergo substantial changes. Which, in which direction, I think, by presenting the position of the Zares Group, and only such a law will we support in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u83	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u84	Thanks again for saying that. As in the position of our Group, I would like to reiterate our view that I believe that the material prepared is, or that it is, suitable for further consideration. I believe that all areas of law have been adopted, if I may say so, where patients should exercise their rights. Perhaps you would point out that I also think it's the right title of the law, so it's the exercise of the patient's rights, not the patient's. Of course, I would be more pleased to find a suitable Slovenian term for a patient. For the law speaks not only of patients, those who are or are sick, but of persons who are users of health services. Therefore, one proposal could be added to complement. Nowhere is it mentioned, black is in itself a reasonable area of dentistry or dentistry, I am stressing once again, it is in itself understandable that it is involved here, but I think it would not be wrong if another sentence were mentioned by that name, because I believe that it is also very necessary to regulate the so-called patients' rights in this area. If I look at Article 5, where they are also listed, probably not all concern users of these services, because we are primarily there, I think that more patients than patients, but that by adopting this law the operators of this area would not forget that the law also applies to them. In any case, I would point out once again that the Government or the Ministry of Field, at least for me, has drawn up a good law, that it is also the time for us to adopt this law, and that in the future we will be able to solve all those who have made it easier for us to do so. I will certainly support the proposal that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Ljublješek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the distinguished minister with her staff! I will not go into depth into the very content of this proposed law, because I believe that more or less of us have read it similarly, and the views of individual parliamentary groups have also been heard, especially because there are even more competent colleagues behind me who have been involved in the drafting of this law, as well as colleagues and colleagues who have studied the law in depth. I myself have read the contents of this law with interest, even though I am not a member of the parent’s working body in whose jurisdiction it is to deal with this law. In particular, I have read it from the perspective of one of the users of health services and I estimate that the proposal for a law, which I stress, was urgently needed in Slovenia, is extremely well prepared. I do not change this view, even though I have heard quite a lot of criticism in individual opinions. And the law itself is actually written on the skin of patients. It's not bureaucratic, but it's what we want as citizens and citizens as potential patients. What fell into my eyes were very well-defined patient rights and also his duties, as well as the protection of his rights. I would only point out the right to respect patients' time because we are all familiar with what is now happening in practice in this area. What is the status of the order, especially the situation in the waiting rooms themselves. And that, in fact, if it changes in a positive direction, will be very welcome for all patients. In particular, when ordering, it will be necessary to take care of the shortest time and only the waiting period, and if the medical service is delayed for more than 3 months, the patient will have the right to request a medical check-up from the doctor, who also sent him to the healthcare service. Also, this law, this bill before us, which we are dealing with, shows that a great deal of good has been done at the time of the Minister's current colleague, Dr. Bručan. Many true things have been done, and this also shows this proposed law, and I believe and expect a lot of good and true things to be demonstrated in the future. From shortening waiting periods, to creating conditions for the operation of persons and also for the recovery of poorly managed investments during the previous government. What I would like to stress in particular is the following. On the one hand, I find good systemic, legal solutions in which the main objective is man, patient and this is written down and this is the first step. But I am more interested and concerned that what is written will also be realized in practice. And I would like to draw particular attention to this because I know that it will not be easy to change the mental background of all health personnel in the entire health hierarchy, as well as in patients, because their duties are also enshrined in the law. Real organizational levers and activities will need to be established. That is why it is a difficult task for the Minister, because a lot of systemic, organisational and operational work will be needed, especially as I said - to change this mental background, which is the hardest thing to believe that patients are not because of the health system itself, health institutions and health personnel, but that it is quite the opposite. That they are a healthcare system, health institutes and health staff in the service of patients. And in doing so, the Minister will be able to demonstrate all her managerial skills, and I believe that she will succeed. So let's give time, I am the optimist, that the results will soon prove to the satisfaction of patients that it will not only be written in marriage but will not be realized in practice. Today, we are discussing this proposed law, the content, which is a prerequisite for practical implementation. I also certainly support the bill, and I will also support possible additions and improvements, which will also emerge on the basis of today's general debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I am of the same opinion as those colleagues who say it is high time that this proposal is in the National Assembly, that we are discussing it today. After all, it is good that this is your first marriage, Minister, at your new appointment of this important position in the Government, that you may be able to go through this debate today, which has been quite interesting and will probably be as much written as possible, you and your colleagues, so that this law, which must truly be our common law, regardless of the position, may be the opposition. It's the law for our citizens, our patients, our people, the law that's happened before, when it comes to dealing with this problem. I said something similar yesterday when the opposition left such an important document as the resolution on higher education, and I hope that today it will not and I believe that this will not happen even at the time of the final adoption of this law and that it will receive the broad support of the members of the National Assembly. Therefore, I believe that this material that you have prepared with your colleagues and put it through the Government in the National Assembly is also, in my opinion, a good basis, as the predecessors estimate. A good basis for giving our patients the rights that go with them. Because the patient, as we know, is also a patient. And when you're a patient, then you feel best whether your rights are violated or not. Of course, we are all most sensitive to these things, but when you assign them to your neighbors, surely this right, if violated, is the most painful for man. I am sure that you will try to take these comments today, which are also well-intentioned, which I have also listened to from colleagues from opposition parties, as much as possible in the matter of further discussion, so that you may also take a little more time to respect the patient's time. It's a very important question. When such and other diagnosis occurs, when an urgent matter is to be done, every day is important, not a month or a half a year or more, when a person’s life is saved. The usual practice is that this is already being implemented at a high level today, I think. My experience here is very positive. Here's the medical ethics and all that, the profession does everything to everyone, no matter who this patient is, to offer the most he has to offer, and I think he's here. But these things have not been written so far as they will be in this law, and that this law, according to Posavsko, will drink as much water as possible for all citizens, and that, through further discussion, the general public will also be as professional and lazily as possible, especially for patients, for patients, for patients who are best placed on the skin, and that at a given time when we come to this case, we will also respect the most positive points in the law. So I think this journey is more than good, positive. Thus, and as soon as possible in the second reading with the comments to be made and to be accepted for the benefit of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President! I am also one of those who think that this law will certainly be a major step forward in the protection and protection of patients' rights. Of course, as long as in practice it will actually come to life. Or, in practice, it will actually live as it should, I think, the most important thing will be how effectively the disputed relations will be resolved, how effectively complaints, objections and the exercise of specific rights of patients will be resolved. Therefore, in my own debate, I will only touch on the chapters which speak of the representative of the patient's rights, because, if I understand this chapter correctly, it is a great responsibility for patients to actually exercise these rights of the law. I did not quite understand what Mrs Minister was going to say when she said that the motioner had given up the concept of a guardian, a special guardian of patient rights, if that was to be seen in the broader concept of human rights and fundamental freedoms. This is true, of course, but I do not know the reasons why you gave up this concept of the Ombudsman, because it is not appropriate to reconsider whether you would prefer to introduce the Ombudsman, with special powers, with special status, rather than an agent of the rights of the patient, whom you already say in the introductory article that he is independent and independent. This is all fine and just as it is written, but the following articles, which speak of the powers of this representative, of who he calls him, of what way he is responsible, are not quite adequate, do not correspond to this claim that he is truly independent and independent. See, first of all, the Minister responsible for health shall be appointed by the representative on a proposal or before hearing or obtaining the opinion of the Commission referred to in Article 64 of this Law. And when we go to see what this 64th article of this law says, of course, this article states that, for the first time, the members of the Commission are appointed by the Minister responsible for health, and the President of the Commission is once again appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Minister responsible for health. Then also the exact criteria, conditions and procedure of the invitation to tender, since this representative may only be appointed under a prior public invitation to tender, i.e. these precise criteria and conditions and the tender procedure shall be re-defined by the Minister responsible for health. Well, then we can ask ourselves, is this representative of the patient’s or patient’s rights really independent and independent, or is he simply a public servant? For the representative works at the headquarters of the district health care institution, which also provides all material and other conditions for his work. For example, the Minister also determines how patients are informed, i.e. how this representative will inform patients, once again appoints a Minister responsible for health. But we're introducing some censorship here, some mandatory instructions again, it's not clear. And, of course, the necessary resources for the work of representatives are set out annually in the financial plan of the Regional Office. This is, of course, questionable to me because there is no representative under such provisions and cannot be independent and independent. He is an official, a public servant, in fact it would be said, subordinated to the director of the district office, dependent on the minister. This is evident from what I have been saying and whether we can then rightly believe and expect him to properly advise the patient on appropriate remedies, which are, of course, normally directed against the healthcare system and against healthcare providers and so on, he may act and advise correctly, but perhaps not. And now, if we are talking about whether such an authority is actually an independent and independent representative, we need to ask ourselves at least what its powers are, who appoints it, who is responsible, who can call it back - we also saw, the Minister of Health - and who pays it, of course this is also a very important question. The answers to these questions suggest that this representative of the patient’s rights will not be independent and independent. I am therefore convinced that such a concept of this representative is not appropriate and that, however, it would be valid to reconsider the possibility of choosing the Ombudsman or the patient's rights, so there is a fairly well-established and positive practice in some countries, including the European Union countries, and perhaps it would suggest little to look into their arrangements as they progress in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. He's a freshman.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. It would be a little strange to say you don't support this marriage. That is why, of course, I am very pleased today to note that considerable support for a prepared law is, of course, the common goal of all of us, what has been said once before, that this law will truly be common and that it will represent some significant improvements for the patients to whom this coalition and also this government have been working all the time. I must say that today, in the debate itself, there was some talk about how late this marriage was, it was supposed to be, and so on. However, I must say that the law on patient rights is being prepared, if I know very well, for about 10 years, a little less possible, but 10 years. And that we have now in these three and a half years, we have actually prepared this law for the form that was presented here today and, as today, the majority support at least at the beginning of the debate, in the second reading. I must say, of course, that in the previous mandate, the Government failed to prepare this law, has worked hard to prepare it and has failed to prepare it. It's a difficult marriage, it's a law that requires a lot of work, a lot of will, a lot of coordination, and that's why the law couldn't be prepared faster than it was. He wanted to harmonise this law, to achieve as much consensus as possible. These comments, which have been made here today, can be accepted and could be made substantially earlier. Representatives of the Government will probably also be able to answer the question of how many of these comments were really given in the process, in coordination or in the process of discussion and then taken into account or failed. But in any way, all that is good, I think that we will be able to add by the Members at the next stage and also together with the Government then in the second reading present a law that will be acceptable to all. There are only 10 countries in Europe that have this regulated by legislation. We're going to be 11 countries, somewhere in the middle, and I think that's one achievement. But there's something I'd like to say about the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman was one of the possible options throughout the drafting of this law. However, it turned out that both of the human rights guardians with whom we discussed in the past were somehow opposed to the Ombudsman's institution. Even the current guardian I've been talking to myself about it. I must say that the Ombudsman's Institute also covers the Ombudsman's institution. And the Deputy Human Rights Ombudsman is also responsible for the protection of patients' rights at the Ombudsman's Institute. With these representatives of the patient's rights, however, it was desirable, or somehow, to expand the opportunities that patients have to have in exercising their rights. And I think that this way is more appropriate and that, even though the coalition contract states that this will be the Ombudsman as a special institute, it does not interfere with such an improved procedure as is proposed here. The medical appeal procedure is a very important matter. I myself have worked with patients for many years, three years, four years, and of course I know things well, and I must say that this proposal here provides an extremely good way to enable patients to settle very quickly, or to reach a rapid consensus with a doctor or with a healthcare professional, if there is a conflict, what a difficult situation has occurred. 95% of all problems arising in the operation or work of a doctor or in the treatment of a patient can be resolved very quickly and easily. And so, in fact, we have been doing it all the time, although this has not been institutionalised by any regulation or act, this is, of course, now particularly regulated. And I think that at this very point this law is very important, this two-phase procedure actually allows a huge number of cases to be resolved in a short time, in a short time, and in the benefit of both sides, of course. It is clear that these representatives of the patient's rights have been given, in narration, to health care institutions, but I must say that by establishing the provinces, as already mentioned today, these options are expanding to the provinces and the provinces will, I am sure, those cities that will regulate this area in the future for their own territory, for their own area. Of course, there have been some comments in this discussion today, depending on who gives or who appoints these representatives. I don't know. The mayor is the one who is suitable - I understand in the discussion, but the Minister of Health does not. Now I don't understand what the difference is, both of them are politics and both are actually competent, either one or the other, to appoint such a commission or such a representative. And I don't see any difference in this at all, so I think it's just a matter of decision and that it's probably a direction that is also drawn by this law in the direction of the landscape that will actually bring about the solution to this problem that we're talking about here today. Nor was it possible to find another payment solution. If anyone in the discussion points out a different way of paying, if this proves to be the case, we will also have to support it with joy in the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u94	Yes, I ask for a replica, because also Mr Bručan looked here when he opposed those criticisms about the representative of the patient's rights and also referred to the opinion of the current Ombudsman. I just want to say here that it's two different institutes. When it comes to the powers, powers of the Ombudsman, it is necessary to know that the Constitution states that the Ombudsman shall be appointed by law to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms vis-à-vis national authorities, local authorities and public authorities. It is said that this guardian, now a guardian, has completely different powers and powers to the authorities and so on. We are here talking about a guardian who will be specifically involved in the exercise of the rights of a particular patient, and therefore we also have in models that we meet around the world several types of human rights guardians, one is this parliamentary type of guardian that we have, which is now Mrs Čebashkova, and the other is also government guardians, who are called the government, or who are designed otherwise. And I also did not understand from Mrs Zalockareva's debate that she advocated that the Ombudsman or the representative of the patient's rights be appointed mayor, she said 'in future provinces they should be appointed' and, of course, by who then appoints him and in what process. I do not define myself in this regard, but I want to say that there are many options that should be studied and then decided on one that will be effective enough for a particular patient when his specific rights are affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in this room, especially the minister! First of all, I must say that I am pleased that this law has finally come to Parliament so that this law will also help to improve the situation of both patients and general health care as a whole. I'd like to say the following first. When I read this law, I began to wonder why it was not in the title of the law itself, apart from the rights of the patient, added "and duties". In the law itself, we know that this content is given and processed, but I believe that the title should already contain this second category. Humanly, it is natural that we people are very quick to realize that we are just as quick to forget our duties. The first indent on this note, where I wrote a few points, which I would like to talk about, is "praise." I think it is right to say today, on this occasion, that we have a very good healthcare service, that we have very good healthcare staff, that we have good doctors, that we have good specialists. As far as this is concerned, it may just be necessary to say that, unfortunately, we have a great shortage of doctors, that this is one of the major problems and that politics in the past is also responsible for this shortage. However, even though we have such good health care and staff, I must say that we have a very poor health situation. I will touch on the right enshrined in the draft law under the fourth indent of the rights, the right to adequate, quality and safe health care. I think that all the other rights listed here will be able to be realized, only this right will be difficult, or at least it will take a long time for us to exercise it. When this right is explained, point 2 states: "Adequate health care is the one that is consistent with the patient's needs" - this seems very good - "and with the possibilities of the health system in the Republic of Slovenia." This part is called the ability of the health system in the Republic of Slovenia, but it is one that asks me a great question, how can we really exercise and exercise this right. The patient, in my opinion, has the right to lie in a hospital in one normal room under one normal condition, where the temperature is not 40 degrees, I'll just say that in room 8, 10 or 12 patients, it's not a normal situation. And I think it's also a patient's right to normalize this situation. It's a real right to bed in a normal room without the patient lying on some emergency stretcher in the hallway. Right to normal fulfilment of their physiological needs. It may seem funny to someone, but unfortunately we also have a very, very bad situation in our institutions in this area. When I was talking about eight-person rooms, but then there's four rooms with one toilet, one shower, and so on. I think that, with all the development of our society and the provision of various rights, we must also address these most basic needs of the patient. I wouldn't say anything about other rights, I'm sure they're real, and that patients will also be able to use them and take advantage of them. I will conclude this; if we ensure that patients have these needs, there will also be fewer conflicts and fewer mistakes in professional decisions on individual matters. I am happy to support this law, and I want the situation, especially the most critical ones, to be resolved as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I think we absolutely need the Patients' Rights Act. I think even a more appropriate address would be the one they have in Finland, and this is the law on the situation and the rights of patients. In fact, I think that the fundamental question is actually about how we understand this patient or I would rather say a citizen or a citizen. Whether we understand him as a healthcare provider only when he is sick and in need of medical care, or if we understand him all the time, when he contributes to the medical treasury, when he should receive preventive and other checks and, of course, when he is sick for these or those reasons and comes to a healthcare provider for individual services. It is therefore also necessary to consider this aspect of whether it is a matter of the law on the rights of patients or citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in healthcare. And that's why I think the Finnish title, the law on the situation and rights of citizens and citizens, is probably the right title. In this regard, the fundamental question that is being raised here today is the types of rights that we have. And here you rightly wrote that one of the first rights, in addition to the right to adequate quality and safe health care, is the right to access health care and preventive services. You see, already here in the same text, when you talk about the rights to preventive services, it is obvious that the law is too narrow because patients who are not sick are healthy citizens need preventive services and therefore the law needs to be extended. However, my fundamental dilemma is that in some ways you say that the right of access is limited by every time a healthcare system, the provision of services, and depends on the ability of the health department and the standards of the medical profession. The fundamental dilemma associated with this is then linked, I think, to the question of where this Ombudsman should be. And if I go back to Finland, there's a Ombudsman in Finland. When a person is sick, when he needs health care, he will not go to the health insurance office, to the district unit to seek his right, but, in saying, "he needs advice" on the spot. It is therefore very illogical for patients in Ljubljana to seek their rights in Miklošič instead of in Zaloška or wherever the basic care of citizens will be provided in Ljubljana at any time later. Is it right to have a patient's right to have a patient's rights guardian in the health insurance department? Yes, if we understand the role of the health insurance institution as some kind of sole demander for health services or health service providers. I understand the health insurance company as a customer of services on behalf of our insurance companies. And if we have a customer of services on one side and we have healthcare providers, it's kind of illogical that whoever protects the interest of the entity is in this system on the demand side. Therefore, it seems to me that the solution that would follow the Ombudsman's solution by appointing the Ombudsman of the rights of citizens in the healthcare system, or, yes, may be within the framework of the new provinces. However, if otherwise agreed, this could also be settled at national level. In fact, I cannot agree with the idea that the district health insurance units or the Health Insurance Office are actually the place where this process of protecting patients' rights is regulated in some formalistic way. My feeling is also that the law follows someone, I will banally say, to the administrative process, the first stage and the second stage, although this is about ensuring patients' rights sometimes to the fundamental question of whether people are informed at all or not. Anyone can tell us a lot about our public health system. But I think that one fundamental right that people do not have is usually associated with this feeling that these are people in white robes and we citizens must be happy to receive any service. Therefore, it is the awareness and awareness of the citizen that he has his guardian in this hospital, his own place, where he enters and that he is not the only place in which he enters, a nurse or a nurse who accepts your medical certificate, but that he is looking for help in the event of a conflict on the face of the city. Therefore, I think that a solution from Finland with the Ombudsman, which is organised for individual health operators or for more operators together, is a good solution. And also the solution that will give this law the greatest added value. This law is not because someone is protected from a possible lawsuit because in administrative proceedings it is determined that everything has been done right. But this law is to give Slovenian citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, compulsory health insurance insurance and insurance companies in voluntary health insurance, however they develop, further information that there is someone else who helps them to exercise their rights in this system. The fundamental dilemma that will then arise is related to a famous story called waiting species. The development of the medical profession, anywhere in the world and limited public finances, do not allow waiting types to exist. This is a fact everywhere in the world, even in the Scandinavian countries, where, for example, they give relatively the most money for it. Waiting types together with so-called other opinions or other opinions as a way to extend waiting types, all of these are known methods of how you allocate limited resources to as many users as possible. That is why, of course, the following will happen. The waiting types will be extended because more people will be aware of their rights. And they will seek their rights in the right place. However, this does not mean that rights are reduced; this simply means that most of the citizens who are insured are offered information on what rights they have. Therefore, the representatives of the Ministry of Health, Madam Minister, everyone who has participated in this law, forget this formal administrative procedure and think about what this law really wants to achieve: give people information about its rights and drive them through the maze of primary, secondary and tertiary health and, of course, the Ombudsman should be with the operators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister and co-workers. Although not typical Slovenian, let me first express my gratitude to the team led by the previous Minister of Mag. Andrej Bručan, who has prepared the text of this bill so far as we can have our first hearing here today in the National Assembly. This is indeed a great deal of work, and I am pleased that today, with great approval, the National Assembly is conducting its first reading of this law. I would now like to point out that the New Slovenia Group will support today's decision that the draft law will go into further parliamentary treatment. Today, in medicine, we often talk about the health industry and consumerism, which is encouraged by the increasing capacity of health technologies and the pharmaceutical industry and by new scientific discoveries, which also poses new risks. The scientific and technological revolution has substantially changed medical practice, not only in terms of integrated approaches, the use of new treatments, detection, prevention and forecasting of disease, but has also reached into the basic relationship of treatment existing between the doctor and the patient. It has set, this scientific and technological revolution, new challenges for health policy, educational and research systems that must respond to the expectations and demands of citizens and to continuous social change. In the new role of a partner with the option of choice and decision-making, the citizen and the patient also take different responsibilities for their health and lifestyles within changed relationships. He takes on his shoulders some of his doctor’s and social responsibility. Often impressed with new technologies, convinced of the infallibility of doctors and the success of medicine, it must be well aware of the limitations, possible risks and the consequences of its decisions. Not only the opening of a dialogue for cooperation, but also the awareness of this new role played by a citizen in the healthcare system, is also intended for the Law on Patient Rights. By law, in my firm belief, we clearly define or define the content of individual rights and procedures, thereby facilitating disputes between patients and healthcare professionals and speeding up their resolution. The current practice has shown that the content of individual rights is flawed and the procedures for their implementation are unclear and the forces are complex. From now on, patients will know in advance what rights they can exercise and in what way. Slovenia is a country legally bound by law to ensure the highest level of health protection. They are also committed to this by local communities with the powers they have in the field of health care and the organisation of services following the said objective, i.e. the highest level of health protection. The protection of patients' rights must therefore be provided by the State with clear complaints procedures and independent protection of the patient's rights. Patients should be brought closer to the possibilities of complaint and informed in due time about the possibilities of appeal procedures. Complaints in health care must be carried out outside the healthcare system, so that the assessment ensures professionalism, independence and independence. Only in this way will we gain confidence in the protection of patients' rights. I personally agree with the solutions proposed in the proposal on patient rights currently under consideration. In practice, patients are also often aware of their rights with regard to appeals procedures, for example at the level of the healthcare institution, but experience from the past has shown that these procedures are very rarely resolved to the benefit of patients. Therefore, patients have legitimate doubts about the impartiality of these institutions in resolving their complaints. Ignorance of the rules in patients is often due to constant changes in these. The cause of infringements of the patient's rights is often in overcrowded legislation, which is too specific and allows for infringements of patients' rights. Patients’ rights are subject to too many conditions and assessments by health professionals, which does not guarantee impartiality. However, patients want independence and impartiality in protecting their rights. There is a good solution in the bill, which ensures impartiality. In Slovenia, there is also a need for a patient representative, since only an institution independent of the establishment conditions and independent of its functioning can guarantee the protection of the patient's rights for the sole benefit of the patient. As we say, the Members of New Slovenia will positively accompany the parliamentary procedure of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u102	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Very briefly. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we were already aware in our proposal that patients' problems would not be solved if we put in place only control mechanisms and establish or appoint patients' rights representatives. The aim of such an arrangement is to resolve matters where they arise as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible, and not to get involved in various bureaucratic procedures. Unfortunately, I must say that this proposal of law at this time, it is said in the first reading, is not yet the same, but in fact it sets up patients who are looking for complex procedures, and at least this part will actually have to be arranged in the following way, it is said before preparing for the second reading. But there's still open stuff. Article 13, which is supposed to provide religious, spiritual care, is, of course, especially needed, again prefers, or allows only one religion to be preferred. We do know, however, that people are sick with different religions, and at that time they certainly need someone they trust the most. A reasonable time will also have to be defined separately. A reasonable time can be a very stretching concept. It is even stretchy when the waiting species cannot be formed because the institutions do not allow people to stand up to them. And then, of course, they can be short. This law must also be looked at through the light of this, and so far in this ministry, many things are being prepared with good faith and good purpose, and then it "appeared". This concern for health, which appeared under the Tobacco Product Restriction Act, has led to the fact that now half of Slovenia is cold because they go out and inwards and most of which were most said - for waitresses who have to wait outside and inside. Look at the data, then laugh!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A respected minister with co-workers. Without a doubt, such a law, which brings more rights, is to be supported, is a small step in the right direction. But we're still a long way from the finish line. One is, I will focus on the waiting periods, depending on the minute I still have, if, of course, one of us patients does not get to the doctor and the treatment, then his rights in the essential article are violated, and there too, the Ombudsman will not help us if the health system is not so built that everyone reaches his own hearing at the right time. I opened the word "waiting kind" in Google - what do we get there? As far as breast surgery and an outpatient for breast disease are concerned, it says [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] 3.75 months, pounds 5.38, knee prosthetics, ankle for 29 months and a little more, hip surgery for 9 months, orthodontics 24 months and prosthetics - adult dentistry for 9 months. [[...]] Definitely too much. If these papers, actions and laws are not followed by action [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Doctors, surgeons, then we're on the wrong track. [[...]] The first step in the right direction, and the first step in the right direction, I support and welcome it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. The Law on Patient Rights, which has been repeatedly stated today, is a demanding law. That is true and fortunately it was also evident that the former minister, because in 2005, at the time of his term of office, or even earlier, he really promised that this would be adopted immediately within a few months. Because before, they were just the ones who stopped it, but now it's gonna go like butter. Unfortunately, this has become complicated. And that's true. And I think that today's debate also bears witness to all the complexity of this law, and I sincerely hope that this proposal, which some of you have said is so good and ideal, will need and will be upgraded in many ways. Some of these dilemmas were certainly open today. I personally want to do this, and here I appeal to the Minister to review all the reports that have been prepared so far by the only guardian of patient rights, Mrs Magda Žezlina. I think that these are extremely valuable documents and that it is from this experience that the only guardians can be drawn to the future. I will not say that everything is dry gold, but it does point out in its reports: where are the problems that are not properly regulated and what are the most suitable ways to achieve the final goal, that is to say that the rights of patients and patients are indeed protected. That seems like one of the key messages to me. The dilemmas were in the concept, I agree here, and there is an increasing possibility. We now have a concept ahead of us that speaks of a state commission with 76 members and representatives who are bound in some way to health insurance institutions and probably about as many as these institutions. I am pleased that today's initiative or proposal to link this to the new provinces has already received some positive feedback. It seems to me that this is the right place if we insist on the concept that we have these provincial guardians, although I am personally more inclined, I will say, after the reflection and experience I have so far, to the Ombudsman at the country level. I think that this could be a person with a lot of authority, certainly bigger than some commission that will have 76 people sitting in, although it is necessary to admit that the composition is appropriate, the composition is appropriate and appropriate, but it seems to me that it is simply too extensive. And there is also some responsibility and some recognition of what people would really take for their own, and in such a case, the way they work in the Senate is actually quite distorted. This man must have great reputation, he must be trustworthy, and in this sense, I think a person in the form of a guardian of patients' rights at national level is a better option. But I think you have this in the coalition contract, so maybe you should take a look at it. But if you insist on the option of having representatives, and then the right solution is the province, there is no mayor in the province, there is the mayor, but I think he will be the chief, that he is the right solution in calling them the provincial council. I do not see that this is the same as was said today, whether the provincial council or the mayor was said, but I did not mean the mayor, because this will not be a function within the province, but the provincial council is a better solution, allowing greater independence, greater autonomy than possibly the minister who does not give this answer. This is what I think are the key concerns, although it may be necessary to reconsider the concept once again, or the concept is the most true one, and also the rights that have been mentioned once again, especially the right to privacy, and I think that even today is a European or a world day that is related to these things, not privacy, but accessibility and information, but here is this thin ice. I hope that the law will still be subject to substantial changes. And just so that we don't waste time because we've already lost too much time in this, it makes sense today to support the law at first reading, not because it's so quality and so ideal. It is good that he has come into the procedure that he is here in Parliament to start with him, but I think that he will have to be strengthened with many, many amendments, if we want him to be truly operational, because it is those with the most experience, lawyers dealing with health matters, the former or guardian of the only human rights, some societies, especially here, that I think about the company of nurses, that we must be aware that it is the nurses who have the most contact with patients and that they actually see and know very much, so I think that they too need to listen to these things. These things will have to be taken into account, amended, otherwise of course the marriage will be a dead letter on paper, we will make a hook, and people will not get what everyone wants and what we all monitor every day. A few days ago, a few months ago, it was more obvious, and look what happened to those procedures and where they are. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Where's the procedure in Celje, where's the procedure in Strasbourg? [[...]] These things didn't happen to us. And even if this law is passed, these procedures are inapplicable through such a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. He's a freshman, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u108	I didn't want to intervene the first time he was a mag. Squeakl used some incorrect term for a place where the law provides for the performance of a function or the institution of the Ombudsman, pardon, a supporter of the patient's rights. This is not the Department of Health Insurance, but it is the Department of Health Care, ZZV writes, and this is of course some other institution that has absolutely no connection with the insurance company. In fact, we need to know this when we discuss it. Second, when I was talking about mayors and ministers, who's politics and who's not. Of course, I didn't respond directly to you, but someone mentioned this connection earlier and I was just responding to that interpretation of the policies at the level of the country, at the level of the municipalities. Either way, they're both politics or they're all three if he's still the boss. They are all politicians and one of the politicians will decide who will then do the job. Actually, there's no big difference here. Speaking of which, let's just say one more sentence. I must say that I very much agree with these remarks, especially more privacy for patients, I think that is what is most important and what is missing. This is not just a matter of space, but sometimes more education is needed, in this direction by those who carry out health work. But mostly the problem is really the room and the situation in the waiting rooms. Time is very important for patients, it needs to be arranged, but it is impossible to order all patients in the general infirmary. Especially the ones that are urgent. There's a lot of them in every general doctor. Of course, a difference will have to be made here. Well, that's a possibility. Today, let's say in private clinics you have these times mostly very accurately written when someone comes. In institutions, but there's no such thing in health homes, even though we've been asking for it all along. It already exists. It just doesn't come true. And the realisation of this law will be needed to a greater extent than many have ever realized.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I come from the city hall, which has the guardian of the patient's rights. Since I was in the city world at the time when we were deciding on the establishment of this body, let me just say something that would help clarify the very dilemmas where someone should be placed, to whom they should be accountable. The Ombudsman in Maribor was appointed by the city council. And the profession did not oppose this institute until she was convinced that someone at the Maribor hospital would be doing the work. When it was discovered that it would be someone who was not in the medical profession, the satisfaction would be significantly lower. And even though it was a very considerate person who works very well, as it now seems after this time, what he does was the thought of it. And this also poses a particular problem to me when we talk about an advocate or an advocate of the rights of the patient, it also raises a particular issue in this bill. Whether this instrument is set up to actually protect the one he must protect. Because when I look at how the Senate is made up, how the Commission is made up, 2/3 is always those who come from the profession. With all due respect for medicine that achieves results that are admirable, but people would always want to have more and at certain times medicine is also powerless. That is why we have lost our awe for doctors and for the profession that we once saw in humans, so we also have more dissatisfaction with what we expect in these situations when we need the help of others. However, I would appeal here that it would be good to take advantage of this first reading also to raise our awareness of all the comments that have come to our addresses in writing, probably also to the Ministry of Health. It also seems to me that this time is well spent in the consideration of the law. At first, I didn't want to hear about the dilemma, or the law on patient rights or the law on patient rights. But the more I listen to you, the more I find that, apart from naming the law, the more often the expression of the patient's rights is used than the patient's. And even when I listened very closely to Dr. Bručana, I found that he also used the expression of the patient in the sense that he could be used as a synonym, at least as a patient, at least as I heard him now. And it is interesting, without now making any language expertise, that language manuals, either the Dictionary of Slovenian Book Language or the Slovenian spelling, take the patient and the patient as synonymous terms. Only the latest foreign dictionary, the one published by the Youth Book, I do not want to do commercials for it, but by knowing which dictionary I refer to, the patient explains the patient as having received healthcare or health care. So both. And when I think about Verbinec's dictionary myself, it's a person in medical care, so it's a patient, and who comes looking for medical help. If I translate it, it's the patient or the patient who thinks he's the patient, who's looking for help. That's not a precaution, which is what you're trying to tell me with your patient's expression. If we wanted to be very precise, then we should say that this is the law that speaks of the rights of the user of health services - that would be the most accurate term. Because then you'd include prevention, all that the patient's not covering for us right now. But if I consider these highly terminological matters, which, in my view, are resolved in Article 2, and the expression of the patient can be explained in the same way as the term of the patient is now explained - because it says there, "the patient is a patient or" and so on - if, therefore, what can be explained in the law by clarifying the terms, if I think about it, is in most cases in the language so that we explain with some of the most common terms, even though we do not cover all the other situations. See, Comrade Koren pointed out that the law only mentions rights, only the rights mentioned in the title are mentioned. The following law also mentions duties. But I don't know how we'd get out of the situation now if we didn't take into account that we have a Ombudsman, we don't have a guardian of human rights and duties. The Constitution also speaks of rights, not of duties. But we all know that we also have responsibilities, and we know that we do if we want to exercise our rights. So this language spectrum is very wide. But what I want to say about this is that this is still more of a matter of terminology, what the law opens to me, is a more field of competence and actual focus on the group that is in a worse position in this case. As you can see, this law defines a child differently than the Convention on the Rights of the Child. This is where the child is defined to be under 18 years of age. Thus, we see that some things are specifically dealt with here. It's like a little detail like that, not that I want to piss you off with something special, but look. When we talk there about who can get information, who can represent, we also have a spouse or one who lives in an extramarital community, and then we only have a registered same-sex community. But he doesn't have the right to do that to anyone who hasn't registered his same-sex relationship. I understand that reservations are great here, but it should be borne in mind that fewer people are responsible for registration. Right now, I'm not saying that it's not going to be a much easier phenomenon later, but right now there are a lot of reservations, and maybe it would also suggest thinking about covering this group of people as well. Because if we are talking about equal rights, regardless of whether you know: race, sex, age, social background and other personal circumstances, then it is good that these things are carried out to the end. But I am aware that the views on where to put something can be very different. But I think that the recommendations or opinions of the Ombudsman would merely suggest that we take into account, at least in the last part, where the Ombudsman points out the powers he has in relation to others. This last part, the supervision of the work of the representatives, is not adequately laid down in Article 82 because it is necessary to consider, however, the powers of one or the other. Otherwise, of course, I expect that this law, which we are now talking about, will receive support from all the benevolents, but at the same time it is necessary to know that it covers an area that has not been regulated so far, and that improvements are only the expected thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, honourable President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today's long debate on the Patients' Rights Act has somehow shown that most of the members and of course also support such a law or assess that such a law is necessary. That is why we also support in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that this initiative for the general debate has also been adopted and that today we have the opportunity to discuss these matters a little wider. In today's debate, it is possible to see a number of proposals that could be taken into account in the follow-up of the debate, but there are certain allegations or criticisms that are entirely unjustified and also misleading. That this law is extensive, or that matter is extremely demanding, shows that it was almost 10 years of desire for this law to be drafted, and unfortunately all previous governments have failed to prepare it, although it would have been in our patients’ interest, and this government has been able to prepare it within two and a half years. And now I can go back to one of the debates that this government has promised that this law will be under consideration in 2005. Such an observation is certainly not justified, for why he has been in preparation under this Government for so long - simply because proposals and comments have been sought as widely as possible from the wider community or from all stakeholders, because this is the only way to achieve a good text or as consensual a text as possible. It is apparent that the proposals of individual groups are not taken into account in this proposal. I believe so. Surely it is impossible to take into account the wishes, interests of each interested group, because everyone would like the law to be written to him on the skin, means that he would show him some priorities, and ultimately he could also have priority rights, but it must be realized that in such cases there are always some other groups deprived of them. And that wouldn't be right. Surely a good marriage is only a law that takes into account in its text the consensus of the solutions of all those who are in any way included in the substance of the law itself. It was evident that control of infringements of the patient’s rights was to be left to the profession, or to the doctor or healthcare professional, in other words. Although this observation was in some way denied by the same debate, I believe that such an observation is unjustifiable. As stated in the text of the law, the second-degree commission is made up of 76 members, approximately two thirds of these members consist of different experts in the fields of medicine, pharmaceuticals, health care. It is important that one third of these members are made up of NGOs. This is certainly an important safeguard that allows any failure to comply with those provisions of our legislation through such members to be finally exposed to the public, which is certainly the greatest judge, or an indication of any irregularities. I believe that the composition of such a commission is appropriate and that it will perform its role successfully and in particular for the benefit of patients. But I hope she doesn't have much work to do. Today we have also heard proposals or concerns about why this law is no longer trying to subjugate the future regionalisation of Slovenia. I would have supported such solutions myself, but the text of this law came about much earlier than the legislation in the area of landscapes in this stage that we have today. Even today, I would not hope to claim 100% that we will be able to find enough consensus to put provincial legislation under the roof. I wish it were, but it will take a lot of political will and coordination to achieve a two-thirds majority in this House. And waiting for us to have provincial legislation, with this law, would be unjustifiable. Therefore, if we have a province, the need for the law to be adapted, we will also be able to change it. It also seemed incorrect to me that we had been given spitting into the existing health system mainly by a fellow Member who had been in the LDS for a long time and beyond. I'm surprised that it can spit so easily on this system, and thus offend thousands of doctors, health workers who do their work professionally, have already done it in the past, without law, and have contributed to the fact that our health system is, I can say, on a high level. However, it is not comparable to the system in European countries, the most developed, we are somewhere at the very top. I am even more surprised by the fact that it is a species of LDS, because they have been the creators or co-preparators of the past years and the management of the LDS. I agree, there has been a lot of positive work done, there has been a lot of probably too little work done, but I feel that the state of health legislation or healthcare is very high. Therefore, it is also necessary to thank thousands of health workers who are working professionally and are aware of their mission and who are of benefit to our patients. That our system is at a high level or that we follow the needs of patients, many data show. Here I would mention only two or three that show this my conclusion or claim. In Slovenia, our patients, patients receive the latest medical knowledge, research, medicines, if I only mention biological medicines, which we know are the most effective, especially for the most serious diseases, and yesterday we were able to listen to one discussion when an expert in this field suggested that we already have a number of medicines in Slovenia, including through health insurance companies, even before Germany, before Austria, before countries richer than Slovenia, and this is not yet available to our patients. Data, which has been under-represented in the public sector, show that our patients have a high level of confidence in our health system or that they evaluate it positively, also shows a survey carried out in 27 Slovenian hospitals. Over 7,000 patients participated in this survey. There were about 48 questions and an analysis of this survey shows that 86% of respondents expressed a very high level of satisfaction and confidence in our health system. This I think is a percentage that actually reflects what our patients understand or also learn about the quality of our system. Today, too, there have been delays again with waiting lines, an eternal theme that is likely to be addressed in the future. I use it here myself and I want to use the term waiting time, because this is an essential difference. In orthopaedic diseases or in need of treatment, waiting species are likely to increase, as population ageing is the reason why needs are increasing. The waiting period is important because it is completely irrelevant whether the waiting line is 100 patients, but if the waiting period is possible for a month, as if it were a waiting line of 50 patients, waiting for six months. This term is essential here, but it is often misused in public. And that waiting periods or waiting periods are shorter, many data show, especially in areas where health is at risk. I will reiterate that two years ago the waiting period for open-heart surgery was over six months, today this waiting period is less than a month or a week or two. This is an important step forward especially for diseases that endanger health or life. And perhaps today we can ask ourselves why we need the Law on the Protection of Patient Rights. It is true that most of the rights we have in this law already covered by many other laws are, in some way, respected and implemented. However, we do not have these rights in one law-gathering catalogue, and in this law it is, we know that we have them in about 14 areas. And another important reason is that it has not been regulated or established procedure to determine how such rights could be exercised in the event of infringements. So that this law will allow patients to be able, through this law or institution, to be represented by the patient's rights, as well as by the Commission, to be able, in cases where they feel that these rights have been violated in any way, to know who they can turn to, where they can seek help, and then these rights will be guaranteed through appropriate procedures. I will be happy to support this marriage personally. Of course, I will also be happy to participate in the drafting of the amendments and also in the discussions that will follow, because in the next two procedures, I am sure that we will be able to improve this text, especially in those areas which could make an important contribution to the text, which will actually increase our patients' level of rights and, above all, the quality of health services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The list of discussers is exhausted. Perhaps the Minister would like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u114	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As a candidate for the Minister, I have presented my objectives and my strategy, which clearly stated that the starting point of the Constitution is the European directive, that the starting point is a coalition treaty, and I have added to this my experience at the global level, all those which are also linked to technology. And this technology is also extremely important in medicine. In today's debate on the law on patient rights, however, let me mention these experiences that I am experiencing as Minister of Health, and let me draw attention to the space in which we place this law, which is extremely necessary and which is also a promise under the Coalition Treaty. The point is that, with your support today, which I thank you for, I would also like to mention the expectations that your support is also broader in the wider field of health. The operation of the law, the implementation of the law on patient rights is clear that it depends on all the other conditions that they are today. However, conditions depend, of course, on the situation, on the standard that this society has, and on the fact that it is here for some time, on a past that has conditioned conditions also in the healthcare system. And today, when we need to look not only at the patient, we also need to look at the contractors, we need to look at all those who will eventually have an impact on the implementation of this law. They are contractors today, healthcare providers are not the easiest positions. And the contribution of the new law, which, of course, will make it easier for patients to get to their rights, will at the same time lead to, today clearly, also additional complications in the implementation of health care, which, even today, is normal, not without problems, as nothing else is without problems. And that's why we need to do some pre-trial work here. We must be aware that the relationship between the performer, the medical doctor and the patient is essential here. And that it's kind of a culture of society. And that, at this level, at the level of communication, the most, if it doesn't work out at this level, then of course, there are regulations for everything else. But we'll probably have to adapt as a society here in some way. That we have an open range of investments that would help to make the implementation of health care easier as a source. But here we face open questions and I want you to understand them to support them, because where such investments are taking place, such as with us, for example, the Oncology Institute, the Neurological Clinic, the Paediatric Clinic, of course, we also need to support that we have people, groups who can do this. It is not only a criticism of this, but it is necessary to understand that some people who are counted on their fingers cannot make such an appropriate infrastructure system, which will, as a result, also affect that patients will first be satisfied that in the different beds that we have talked about today, they will have access to the toilets that they want today. It's all connected, really connected! And while I would like to work at the Ministry after 10 days - indeed we can focus on these key priorities, not only does the Ministry and the health system then criticise from every possible angle, that criticism is coming, that I don't even know whether I should be addressing one or the other institution today because criticism is coming. On this occasion, I would like to invite you to step a little together so that the health system in society needs to be regulated, in which the operators and patients need to be satisfied, otherwise it is not good. And you're the one here who can do a lot of good, so this video, and today's situation is important to "specify." This is not a state that is from today, here is the development of a system that takes decades, and let's look it in the eye. On the other hand, let us look into the eyes of those doctors who, due to the fact that we have a defined concession in the Health Activity Act and for example want to become concessionaires, we know that there is a lot of criticism from this area, that expectations are such and different and that it would be necessary to have the concession law before what we have today, but unfortunately it is not possible to get everything on the ideal line. I just want to say that we are creating health care for all citizens and citizens, and I really am asking you in this direction for a word of support or suggestion more, but not only sole criticism, which today has been extremely few. That is how I feel today that there is some kind of strength to find dialogue. That is why we need to look at the practice. It's true, I'm listening, and I've met a lot of people from civil society today, doctors, supervisors, directors of institutions, and I'm listening to the expectations. Expectations are very interdisciplinary, very much; in fact, in some ways they can become conflict. This law will have to be negotiated with extreme subtlety first, we cannot make it one that would be for a society that has a much higher standard than we have, but we can screen one that we as a society are capable of wearing. And to really take this other side, from nurses to doctors to all of this and to those who are responsible for institutions that do not know how to make investments, but all have and have the will. But it takes real obedience and if we are now talking about the law that is here - and I am grateful for your additions, to drink it to get it where we want it with some consensus, but we need to understand that the implementation of this law will be extremely difficult, extremely difficult. And expect that the law will generally improve the situation - of course they cannot, they can greatly increase the expectations of patients and it is right to simplify procedures. It is very good that they are as simplified as possible to where the injustice is happening, that the process is simplified, but let's look at the reality - how many minutes does the doctor have for man today? And when we are limited by these minutes, we must also make the laws as simple as possible and as simple as possible and realize that we will not get any more complicated and finally point to no one with a finger. However, it is definitely necessary to have a clear path in society for a patient who is weaker in this case, how he will exercise his right, but that health care today is in a situation where there are not enough doctors, how few of these resources and those - you know, these are not things that can be damaged overnight or eliminated. These are all long-term processes that last five years, ten years to be changed. That is why these expectations are here - I want to warn you in advance, we really need to be realistic and we also need to know that not "respekt" in front of a white dress, but reason among all those in this process in order to get to quality health care. I'm sure terminology is always open to debate. My colleague here warned me that there is a very clear terminology on the patient - it is valid in a healthy and painful condition. That's how it's written after this terminology. However, the title of the law, which highlights only rights - perhaps psychologically, it will be good to add obligations to this if we agree. Because we know only too much about rights, but who will be able to fulfill these obligations in time, and we do not have enough organized in our society, and we will have to work hard for a long time to have them. Long time! Everyone's gonna have to add something to that. I allow myself to make a parallel to an economy where there was a 15-year transition and it hadn't ended. It's still very hard. But here's the feeling that it's going to be a lot longer and that it's going to start a lot later. That it is related to this dilemma, where the representatives will be, where they will be, from whom they will be paid and so on - there can certainly be an eternal dilemma, who is most right. But that bringing the representative closer to the person, the resident, that this is diversified by Slovenia, instead of being at one point, at one point, anywhere in the center, you will probably agree that there is no need for this special legislation, but that it is more user-friendly if it has 10 kilometers or 5 kilometers to this person. But if he has it right down the stairs, as Mr Squeakl has suggested, this distance is even better. I am therefore convinced that, as a pre-trial procedure of this law, we will also have to somehow inform operators of the importance of communication and of the future obligations arising from this law. Because the contractors in this case will also have additional and difficult work and yet I am looking on both sides. That doesn't mean I don't support the law. When you spoke of the power of so-called minister, which is being put on all appointments, the proposal was obviously made that way, we also heard Members who are the most deepening in this area, who are on the Health Committee, that we are not actually closing this law, but that it is open to further proposals, for additional amendments. So these are things that are questionable and that are worth checking out in some way. An important goal in this law is that the process is defined; the way the patient should come is to the final solution. Clearly, the Health Act could not be clarified, so complications arose. As it cannot specify the concessions it has in three paragraphs. That's why there's been a new opportunity here for patients. And today, when people and citizens and citizens are seen to be able to get information from the Internet practically for everyone, for all medicines, for all the possibilities that exist, I believe that even with this law, which should be understandable to citizens and citizens, they will be able to help each other in a positive sense. Every time we talk about reasonable deadlines, meditation, the speedy handling of complaints, I still point out that we will not set ourselves up in advance and strive to reach out to what is impossible, because, as I say, we must be reasonable to everything, even though we are talking here today about the rights of patients. Therefore, on the other hand, the responsibility of patients may need to be a little more specific and in some ways also a responsibility, because otherwise we will have to make a new bottleneck in this area. That there was also a question of children’s rights in hospitals where parents or parents should have the opportunity to be with their children. To tell you the examples of good practice that I have seen, say, the Jesenice Hospital, where children have an extremely pleasant environment, with the staff, so that parents have a place to stay. This is one good practice. On the other hand, we have cases from the Clinical Center that you read and you know that the media are every day, how people are in rooms where instead of six they have to lie eight, where the equipment is not the latest and so on. In short, there are many real problems that are not as immediate as I say they are. And it's not so immediate that the Neurological Clinic is unwired. You know, this cable hasn't been known since yesterday, it's well known back when it was talking about the location of the Neurological Clinic. In short, the situation is very complex in this area because expectations are very different and very largely carried out, but it is much more problematic, even because it is extremely limited to human resources, human resources and everyone else, especially buildings and equipment. I reiterate that we will not be able to make planning, no planning, very good in Slovenia until we have fully informed the health system. Until we inform institutions, health homes and data that are real, which will talk about real free capacities, in equipment, in people, in premises, then the patient or patient's rights can be fulfilled. In that case. And this is also a process to be set up, and it is also written in many documents. At the same time, it is necessary to show the way forward for all participants, performers and patients. And this way forward, I hope that we will know within one year to show in the national programme, that is, in a programme where we will talk about what we want in the health field for the next five years. And even if we were talking about the timeline, the national programme would be better if we had it before than if we had a law on rights, because we are actually putting rights in a place that we have not yet clearly defined. What I mean is that there is an understanding, an awareness of what needs to be done, that is clear, but that not all things go in the order in which someone wants to go home or how we can do at home - if we are alone, if there is a family, but we have to fight a little bit about what happens first. And it's the same here. It seems to me that it is extremely important to take advantage of the experience of those who have already worked in the field of patient rights, to take this into account - it is always good to take experience into account and thus create the future - but I still stress that within the limits of the capacity of this society. It's not just money, even though it's always too little money, but we're people first, and we're all the technology and technology we need to do it. I would like to thank you all at this point for the proper operation, for the correct proposals. I've already learned that this is an integral part of politics, so I accept that, which is new to me, but they have taught me that it is necessary to do so. I hope that this is one of the laws that we will know at this time to the end, that there are still some fundamental, very needed, one of them is the Medicine Act, for next week; the one that I think is also very necessary for Slovenia is the Accession Act. We will, of course, examine more or more precise definitions within the expert teams and then respond accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Check-in is on. Mr. Ljubo Germich, you have the floor. Each debater has 5 minutes at his disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, I hope that you will understand my debate correctly, even if it may not be such that it will be good for your ears, but I think that - at least as I understand here the debates of colleagues and fellow Members - are always correct and it seems to me that respect for us from this point of view is also correct on your part. The other thing I would like to say is that I agree, my opposition colleagues, that a number of people have broken their teeth on this marriage, but today it must be admitted that the evidence of our kind came from the fact that the coalition and the former minister have clearly promised when the law on patient rights will be transmitted; and these were the deadlines in 2005, they were in 2006 and because there was no time until 2006, we put it in the LDS Group. And here it is possible to learn this truth through a number of statements made by the Minister. Look, I know this might be awkward for someone right now, but that's a fact. But today it is not essential for this debate. That is why, again, I would like to refer, Madam Minister, to you a dilemma to which you have not answered me and it is very important to write down, very importantly, in the general provisions and in the introduction. In particular, this is already stated in Article 1, where we say that a specific scope of health insurance rights is established in a specific law, and it is important to read then the part in which we say that in Article 4, in the third paragraph, patients' rights laid down in this law, which are simultaneously linked to the health insurance system, are exercised within the framework of health insurance rules. Today we are talking about the basic law on patients' rights. Me too through discussions with the Ombudsman in Maribor; we were able to listen on the radio today, Slovenia 1, what people were interested in. Of course, they have a very difficult interest in having two paths, but they have problems. Therefore, it makes sense to have a clear answer as to whether they will determine this law, i.e. whether they will be a universal support, i.e. support, for whatever happens to the patient in the process of entering the healthcare system. This is a key issue and I think that the approach of the law should be in this direction. For a uniform, clear answer cannot be seen, given that in Article 1, we write that we have another law for health insurance rights and that in Article 4, we shall then repeat this in the third paragraph. I think patients' rights should be regulated in one marriage. If not, however, the question is how will the representative of the patient's rights, for example, separate one and another range of rights. The third thing I'd like to say is that I've spent a lot of time devoting myself to the right to respect the patient's time. A very important right, a very important right. But this right must be regulated by regulating on the one hand the relationship between the patient and the healthcare provider. It is very important, for if these provisions, which must be realistic, with optimism, bring complications in practice, of course, in this case will bring bad solutions to the law. Why am I saying this? Since when you read Article 14, you talk about waiting times and waiting periods, you write in paragraph 3, so the law states that the contractor [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] it must provide for the shortest possible waiting time and waiting time, but in the network of public health service providers it is determined by a financing contract. [[...]] Then, in Article 15, you record that the maximum allowable waiting time and waiting time for the construction of health services for the provider will be recorded by the Under-Law Minister, and then you record in the penal provisions that the penalty will be exactly on this provision. [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , if this is not arranged as it must in the operators. The deadlines for this are four and six months. And I would like to point out that due to a good desire, well-expressed rights will not come directly to the ground. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u118	Dear President, esteemed colleagues, colleagues! Look, it's kind of new, but it's not exactly new. We are not talking about patients' rights in this House for the first time. The health legislation, which was enacted in 1992, says 15 years ago, has already defined the rights of patients and, in particular, those relating to the whole health insurance, say those belonging to insured persons, and in particular those rights which are enjoyed by anyone under the same conditions. This is also more than inconsistent with international acts and so on. And this law that is before us today, of course, is not a whole new thing. Already, colleague Germič said that we have tabled a law in the Liberal Democracy that has been rejected, which now brings different rights, perhaps even more, and is in some way an upgrade to that proposal. But all the time, all these 15 years, if we count just 1992 and nothing back, there has been so much discussion about the problem of the content of these rights. These are more or less clear, acceptable, defined by codes, we all agree with them, there are no problems here. However, a number of problems have been and are more problematic the way these rights can be realized and even the possibility of achieving these rights, or the realization of the right in some way. I must say that in this law too, I highly doubt that everything is truly written with good faith. Indeed, some things are already fundamentally so complicated that they can become more complicated in decomposition, by means of sub-legal acts and so on. And it's really a question of whether a patient can get to that point where he's asking for justice. I think that further discussion on this law, in the amendments on everything that is going to happen to the second reading, should be particularly careful about this part. So that's how it's gonna happen. Not only how it is written and what it is written, but how a patient can exercise his or her rights, either alone or through his or her representative. It's kind of irrelevant, actually. Of course, if things are so complicated that he can get an agent, one more, then something's wrong with it. On the other hand, it is very good that there are institutions that will be able to help patients when they feel or feel that something is happening to them. You've laughed before, of course, but I must tell you that there was a lot of, I'll say, so humanely spoken words, very well-intentioned, with all the laws and amendments to the laws that we passed in this House, and then things got "good" because it didn't look--no, I'll say five years ahead of time five minutes! And, as I mentioned earlier, a law restricting the consumption of tobacco products. Here things have turned out to be wrong and they've been wrong for two, three months. That's what the data says. And you don't have to laugh because there's been a lot of disintegration, not to mention that the health care that was at the root of this law, which I respect, has led to less health now. It is necessary to consider how things are then realized in life, not only how they are written and what our declaratory desires are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, decide today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, that is at 3 p.m. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, and I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u120	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. Thank you. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and insurance. Since the amendments were not tabled in the second reading, amendments cannot be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the proposal inconsistent. Is there a desire to explain your voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law amending the law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union, the reduced procedure, is not suitable for further consideration." I open applications for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr Drofenik - no, neither does Bajc, only in his own name did Mr Squeakl raise his hand. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle, on your own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u121	I regret that the will of the majority in the Committee on Internal Policy and obviously the will of the ruling coalition is to assess that the law is not appropriate. I regret this because this National Assembly ratified the Constitutional Treaty on the European Union by a constitutional majority and because it is also clearly indicated in the Reform Treaty for the European Union that the meetings of the European Councils, the Councils of Ministers in various formations, will be public. This practice has been established in countries that respect democracy within the European Union in such a way that, during the Dutch, Finnish and other Presidencies, some public meetings have already been opened and the basic reason why we closed the meetings to the public in 2004 is therefore waste. You decide differently, you decide not to expose ministers and government representatives who, at these Friday meetings of the home or the Committee on European Union Affairs, often misfounded the views of the Republic of Slovenia in order to protect these ministers, state secretaries from the influence of the public. Therefore, I regret that despite the ratified Constitutional Treaty, despite the proposals to open European public councils in the new Reform Treaty, we cannot do so in Slovenia. I therefore, of course, consider that the law is more than appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u122	Thank you. Any other interests? I'm opening an application for an explanation on my own behalf. Mr. Slavinac, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will object to the view that the law is not suitable for further discussion, as I have already said in the opening presentation that there are certainly many more cases on the agenda of the Committee on European Union Affairs which do not need to be closed to the public. And despite the fact that the sessions are open, of course, still remain an option, there will still be those meetings where we will address such topics, whose disclosure would weaken our representatives' positions and negotiating points, we can close those topics. For we will only reverse the current situation, which in 90 cases is unjustifiably closed, in that we will only close the session in 10% of the session, and otherwise let it be open when we talk about things related to European Union matters, then let us give the opportunity for those interested in this matter to be able to do so from the media. We heard this morning that the media are reporting that information is available, but look, these sessions are not reported by the media. The media cannot report these meetings because they are closed. And because of all this, it's not right. Let us open meetings, open them to the public and close them only in that area, only when they are truly confidential in nature, but not only when they are opened by the Committee on European Union Affairs at the same time as the economic or any other, as has been the rule so far. The meetings were open only if they were together with any other committee where the business definition of this was not by definition [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u124	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. I believe that the law is not a case for further consideration because of the arguments already put forward today. Indeed, the order of events is that we deal with the issues on Friday at the Committee on European Union Affairs, which are then discussed in Brussels on Monday. The public meeting would mean that they come to the media and to the public negotiating venues, which is sometimes not good, since the negotiating venues have been published in the future, then these are no longer negotiating points. I would also like to mention that, despite the fact that the meetings are closed to the public, our colleague has repeatedly given the content of the meeting separately at separate press conferences and I wonder whether there are any restrictions on not doing so anymore. Because it may cause problems and prevents the work of our negotiators in Brussels.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u126	Thank you. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, for 41, for 23. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I continue with the 20th item of the agenda - with consideration of the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the fifth paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the fifth paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia shall be adopted." I am opening an application for explanations first on behalf of the groups of Members. There are no applications, so I am opening an application for reasons in my personal name. Mr. Weber, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u127	Thank you for your word, President. I would like to point out once again the inadequacy of accepting authentic explanations, because it is indeed beyond the purpose of authentic interpretation in its content. If the Government would like to achieve this change, it should amend the Agricultural Land Fund Act, rather than provide the Government itself with the power to determine how much surpluses it can allocate to the Fund for its operation, and how much will go into the State budget. The Government does not have these powers under the current legislation, but it wants to take them with this authentic explanation. This will give us another mismatch in the operation of the Fund. We are already wondering whether it is appropriate that the Fund of Agricultural Lands is not included in the Public Funds Act, because this fund would operate according to these provisions or operate under the Institutes Act; and we are now adding another uncertainty that the Government will itself determine the extent to which it will go to the State budget, but how much will it go to where the Government will decide. It's totally unacceptable! However, I can also support the Government's further misunderstanding of the legislation with its opinion, which it wrote to the Public Funds Act. There the government says: "If the National Assembly decides to adopt the Fund's financial plan, these funds shall be transferred to the state budget." So another confused opinion, if I may say so, when the Government does not really know whether the National Assembly will decide where this money will go, whether the Government will decide whether it will decide whether the Council of the Fund will decide. In short, the authentic explanation brings further confusion and is inconsistent with the constitutional order, so I will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u128	Thank you. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I will vote against it and it would be good for many to imagine that I would do the same. The reasons are as follows. It is unacceptable for business to do something with an authentic explanation that we can only do with the law. The text contained in the authentic explanation does not solve the problem that the Fund’s management wants to solve. Embarrass the authority of the Fund’s world, the Fund’s practical world will no longer have any important tasks or responsibilities. And if no one believes us, especially from the coalition Members, believe at least your legislative service, which says the matter is inadmissible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u130	Thank you. We vote on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 24. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 24.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are therefore now moving on to a decision on the proposal for a text of an authentic explanation. Is it a wish to explain your voice? Mr. Weber, in your name? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u131	Thank you. The text of the authentic interpretation itself proves that it goes beyond the purpose of the authentic interpretation. In fact, if we make a comparison between the text in Article 10 of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and the text written by the Government as a proponent of this authentic interpretation, there is a significant difference. The key difference is that the government says that the amount of over-expenditure over fund expenditure - this is therefore the extent of over-expenditure over fund expenditure - is significantly different from the text in the basic text of the law. This only speaks of this, "the revenue gap over the expenditure of the Fund is in line with the financial plan and the fund programme of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia". Well, the government is introducing a new dictatorship that the extent to which it will go into the budget is the power of the Government and not more of the financial plan and programme of the Fund, which is then the basis for the payment into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This text is therefore inappropriate for authentic interpretation and is in fact contrary to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u132	Thank you. Even Mr. Squeakle raised his hand. Here you go, in your own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u133	The text of the authentic interpretation is one of the first attempts by today's will of the ruling coalition to break down the integrity of the state budget and public finances. We have had various attempts of this kind, lastly by adopting a law on the takeover of the debt of two cash registers in this National Assembly, but at least we have done so by law. Here, however, we regulate the legal matter by authentic interpretation, which is contrary to the basic Public Finance Act and the Public Funds Act. I propose that we soon accept an authentic explanation that, apart from what the ministers of the Government or you or they share for their own needs, the other revenues are included in the state budget. You're gonna get this far. To say that the Government itself determines how much to go into the state budget, while the rest is divided by the will of the Government, is politely said in contravention of several laws, and this is, of course, the basis for the lack of transparency of public finances and the violation of the laws adopted by this National Assembly at a time when we had to meet the conditions for entry into the European Union and taking over the euro.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u134	Thank you. Any other interest in explanation? I can only see one hand. Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I do not support an authentic explanation because the problem of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests is significantly broader than we are trying to solve it with this point. The beginning of denationalisation is getting further and the need for land is getting smaller, and the municipalities and the fund, of course, in their work and in cooperation, face many and many different problems. It's time for us to really talk once about how to bring this fund story to an end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u136	Thank you. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 23. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the text of the authentic interpretation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda - this is with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Patient Rights. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Proposal of the Patient Rights Act, first reading, is suitable for further consideration." What desire to explain your voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Health as a parent worker. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 31st session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, to be resumed on Monday, 1 October, at 10 a.m. Have a nice weekend!
