ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Please calm down and take your seats. We continue the 25th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I am informed that the next Members of Bevk from 15.30 p.m., Matjaž Han, Drago Koren, Dr Marko Pavliha from 13 p.m., Miran Potrč, Mihael Prevc, Dr Mitja Slavinec and Alojz Sok will not be able to attend today's meeting. Before we go to the 11th item of the agenda, we are moving on to the examination of the cases in connection with the confirmation of MANDATES POSLANCEV, first of all to the appointment of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 17 of the Elections Act, becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. On 5 March 2007, the National Assembly found that Mr Kangler had terminated his mandate. The National Election Commission has forwarded to the assembly the conclusion that the mandate of the current Member has been transferred to Dr Ivan Žagar. The findings were examined by the Commission’s mandate-holder, who informed the assembly in writing. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? No, no, no. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I give the floor to the Members and Members of Parliament. Who wants a word? No, no, no. Members and Members of Parliament are therefore requested to check the functioning of your voting apparatus before the vote. Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The term of office of Dr Ivan Žagar, born on 12 January 1962, Spodnja Polskava 116, Prague, is hereby confirmed. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 45 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We move on to the conclusion that the duties of a Member shall cease in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members. Since Dr Ivan Žagar was appointed Minister, under the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, he cannot act as a Member. The findings were examined by the Commission’s mandate-holder, who informed the assembly in writing. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? No, no, no. I therefore take note of the following conclusion: "Dr. Ivan Žagar, Minister without a licence in charge of local self-government and regional policy, cannot act as a Member in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members." We are now moving on to the appointment of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, acts as a Member instead of a Member acting in the Government. The National Election Commission forwarded to the assembly a finding on which candidate has the right to replace Member Ivan Žagar, who serves as Minister in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The findings were examined by the Commission’s mandate-holder, who informed the assembly in writing. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? No, no, no. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Messengers and Members, who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss the conclusion of the debate and we are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: At a time when the Member of Dr Ivan Žagar, acting as Minister, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, cannot act as a Member, he shall perform this function in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of that Act from today, Mr Marjan Drofenik, born on 13 February 1949, Name 9, Sub-Commission. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I invite the Member of Parliament to join us in our work and wish him success in his duties as a Member. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is on the exploratory proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Italian Republic on the planning of tourism in the border area. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, may I have some more attention, please? We can also talk to the new Member later. I think he'll feel good between us. We're voting again. We'll vote next time. There are 51 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a bill on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of China on economic cooperation. The draft law was annexed to the Council by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE COUNCIL OF THE MINISTRY OF BOSNIA AND HERCHEGOVINA ON THE PREVENTION OF PERSONS WHO BEING UNLEVANT. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Defence of the proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of San Marino on the lifting of visas. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. The ratification vote is under way. There are 55 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 15. The President of the Republic of Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Republic of Austria on the deepening of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Spain, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic of the Netherlands and the illegal migration and the common statement of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Spain, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic of Slovenia, the Great Britain and Northern Ireland. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 55 votes against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 19. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT IS AT THE CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL RELEVANT WORDS OF THE LAW. It's nine laws, and I'm asking if anyone would object to having all the official consolidated texts confirmed by one vote. Nobody. I therefore put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: Law on the revision of public procurement procedures, Law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor, the University of Primorske and the Public Institute of Students' Homes in Ljubljana on credits for co-financing the extension and modernisation of spatial conditions and technological equipment and the construction and renovation of student housing facilities, The Act on additional concessional benefits paid for the occasional and temporary work of students and students, The Energy Act, The Nationality Act of the Republic of Slovenia, The Law on Judicial Service, The Law on Courts, The Law on Referendum and Human Initiative; and Corrigendum to the official consolidated text of the Social Protection Act. We're voting. The vote on the purified texts of those laws is ongoing. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 53 votes against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially consolidated the texts of those laws. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, it's on casually loving matters. The assembly will address the following proposals under this item: Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, The seven proposals of the Judicial Council for election to a judicial function, Conclusion on the termination of the mandate of the three members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council established in 2006, Proposal for Decisions appointing a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council pursuant to the seventh indent of Article 17 of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, Proposal for a decision amending the decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, Proposal for a decision appointing a member and a deputy member of the Public Sector Wage System Board. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. First of all, we are moving on to the consideration of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. By letter dated 9 February 2007, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Janez Drnovšek, proposed to the National Assembly that Mr Andrej Rant be appointed Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mrs Magdalena lornik. [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. Please. The chairman of the commission. [[He doesn't want to.]] The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jože Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! In the process of appointing the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, we will today decide on the second candidate sent by the President of the State to the National Assembly. This time, too, without adequate pre-preparation, the appointment of the Governor also receives dimensions that could not be represented a month or two ago. Even fewer citizens with already difficult access to information, especially from institutions that operate more distant from the public's eyes. Banka Slovenije is one of such institutions. In recent times, much has been said about Banka Slovenije's credits in the process of taking over the euro, especially the huge credits given to the current Governor, Mag. Gasparium. There aren't many left for candidate Rant. We know that it has not been easy to meet the challenging Maastricht criteria, that the Bank of Slovenia, the Government, the National Assembly needed a good cooperation to meet them; in short, all those who had to design national policies in many areas that have an interactive impact on each other. It is and will be necessary to maintain compliance with these criteria. However, this year's New Year's event, when we took over the new national currency, is not the only important criterion by which we measure the merits and performance of individuals and institutions, nor at the Bank of Slovenia. This institution and its staff, in particular its officials, have several more important and lasting tasks to carry out consistently and systematically under the Banka Slovenije Act. Banka Slovenije is the only one in charge of overseeing the operation of the banking system and overseeing the monetary operations of banking institutions. The legal basis for the work of the Bank of Slovenia and the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia is clearly stated. Several times since 1990, reports of errors and inappropriate behaviour in the banking system have emerged. There have been many suspicions of illegal conduct and decisions by individual banking institutions. However, it has never been possible and willful for these allegations to be fully investigated in order to establish responsibility and to carry out appropriate criminal proceedings upon confirmation of the allegations. The SDS Group sought to obtain more precise answers to some of the most important financial and banking affairs that took place in the period after the independence in relation to the Bank of Slovenia and the functioning of the banking system. The events in NLB, LBS New York and LKB Frankfurt were particularly topical, in the redesign of SIB Banka, Triglav Banka and can still be listed. At the time when the National Assembly asked for clarifications, the Bank of Slovenia expressed its objections to the statutory limitations in reporting and in silence with the statement that Members were not entitled to such information. It is interesting, however, that the Law on Banka Slovenije provides in Article 33, and I quote: "The representatives of the Committee of the National Assembly responsible for Finance and Monetary Policy and the Minister responsible for Finance may participate in the meetings of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, but do not have the right to vote." Therefore, by law, the Member may participate in a meeting of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, which means that the Governor must regularly invite him to meetings. At the same time, Banka Slovenije officials argue that they must not inform Members and the National Assembly in detail. Very interesting. As it is said, the procedures relating to the allegations and the indications in the affaires have not been transparently completed, even more, the affairs have disappeared in a strange way without adequate explanations, procedures, without adequate responses to the National Assembly, without sanctions against those responsible. In Banka Slovenije reports, which were transmitted to the National Assembly as the only one to which Banka Slovenije is obliged under article 26 of the Banka Slovenije Act, there is no or the records are very general and incomplete. Therefore, there are no precise reports of who violated the rules, which are infringements, what is the severity of the infringement and what are the sanctions, penalties or penalties imposed by the Bank of Slovenia on banking institutions and individuals, and, say, who did she report if she found suspicions of money laundering. This is not found in the reports of Banka Slovenije, which are required to be sent to the National Assembly. The 2004 report of the Bank of Slovenia does not contain a control chapter and raises the question of when bank violators are the most protected state secret. The attitude towards the National Assembly and Members by the Bank of Slovenia is mildly said, underestimating, contemptible and offensive, as is evident from the performance of representatives of the Bank of Slovenia, both candidates for the Governor and the Deputy Governor. It is entirely inappropriate to ask what information Members may receive for the implementation of constitutional and legal obligations and which they do not. The fact that Banka Slovenije officials do not report to the National Assembly on the findings of controls and sanctions to make fun of the sent questions that we are trying to find out what is not covered by the reports, or that we are assessing that it is not properly explained, is the excess cynicism of Banka Slovenije officials. It is unacceptable that violations and violators in the banking system are the most protected bank secrets of the Bank of Slovenia. I wonder if this may be in the public interest. Opinion No 40, published on 4 April 2006 by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the so-called Kosovo Commission, was drawn up on the basis of a report of the suspicion of corruption on the Commission and was referring exactly to the mandatory conduct of banks and other institutions when they also detect the smallest suspicion that money laundering might occur. By the way, this case is also included in one of our questions, but there is not a word of it in the report of the Bank of Slovenia, which was sent to the National Assembly. Do you feel that the Bank of Slovenia officials who are competing for new mandates are acting in a responsible and lawful manner? In our opinion, no, since Banka Slovenije should report to the National Assembly on the findings and measures. Depending on the status or degree of confidentiality of the Bank of Slovenia material sent to the National Assembly, the National Assembly may hold a public or closed meeting. It would not be the first time that Banka Slovenije reports would be discussed at a closed meeting. It is very clear to say that the Bank of Slovenia is not responsible for the supervision of the daughters of some domestic banks abroad, this is not found in Banka Slovenije reports. They don't want to explain it, they think it's strange, but at the same time, in public statements, Banka Slovenije officials, for example, talk about cooperation with the banking authorities in the United States in the case of the New Ljubljana Bank, that's LBS New York. According to Deputy Governor Nučič, the Bank of Slovenia has even participated in this review. So what is the truth? Banka Slovenije does not have jurisdiction or does not want to have them, and why it does not report it and cannot report it to the National Assembly if it is precisely what we are asking that they do not want to report it to the press conference. Is the arrogance of Banka Slovenije officials to the National Assembly and the disrespect for the Bank of Slovenia Act and other laws, and does the independence of Banka Slovenije and the candidates for the Governor, to which they place so little bet, report to the National Assembly? I don't think that should be true. Andrej Rant is also part of this illegal and ignorant relationship between Banka Slovenije and the National Assembly, which he spent the entire time in Banka Slovenije as Vice Governor. This is also confirmed in the archives of the National Assembly. In the parliamentary group, we do not believe that such candidates are fit to perform such a responsible function as the Governor, so we will not support the candidate. However, we expect to be invited by the proposer, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, President of the State, in the event that the candidate does not receive sufficient support, to design a new proposal for a candidate for governor as a partner, because we want to properly fulfil our constitutional rights and the legal rights of citizens [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in the interests of the new candidate and the domestic and external reputation of the State and its institutions. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u3	Thank you. Mr Milan Petek will present the position of the LDS Group. In order to avoid any misunderstandings, I should point out that the representative of the Group of Members has 10 minutes to attend, and that all the panellists reported later, individual Members and Members, after 5 minutes. Thank you very much. Sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u4	It's okay. President, colleague, colleague, representative of the proposer, Mrs Magdalena Tovornik. Good-bye, everybody! In the LDS, we are convinced that the President's proposal is appropriate, logical and good, so we will support it. Vice-Governor Andrej Rant is an expertly qualified candidate, as he himself contributed significantly to its development in 15 years of operation in the Bank of Slovenia. Mr Andrej Rant is a member of the European Ecofin Economic and Financial Committee and is accompanied by the Governor at meetings of the Central Bank Council as his deputy. That's why the coalition can't tell him he's not an expert candidate. Andre Ranto can also be credited with the readiness of Slovenia to introduce the euro. As co-chair of the Co-ordinating Committee on Technical Preparations for the introduction of the euro, he has successfully carried out, together with his colleagues, all necessary to ensure that the exchange of currency was done without any particular difficulties, for which many have given us recognition. However, it appears that we will decide once again on the relationship between the Government and institutions, which should be successful, democratic - and in successful democratic countries are independent, independent, professional and upright. Independent, independent and upright because this is a fundamental condition for the effective functioning of the whole society, economy and development of each share. In the new circumstances, the importance and role of fiscal policy is substantially greater and the role of the Bank of Slovenia has been changed. Its primary role is control, its primary role is analytics, and that is what Banka Slovenije does, and this must be done by Banka Slovenije if we want a successful economic policy in Slovenia. The appointment or not to appoint a new governor in Slovenia is closely monitored by the International Monetary Fund. And what will be the message of not naming the new governor? It will be reported that Slovenia is a financially unstable country because it will be the only country in the EU to be a country without a governor and without a legal representative in the European Central Bank. Even in today's Journal, we have probably all read it, we can read that Slovenia has in its latest report Standard&Poor's, which is one of the world's three most respected credit rating houses written literally like this, quote: "The parliament's recent decision that the Governor of the Central Bank is obviously not confirmed for political reasons by Mitja Gaspari, who had the necessary knowledge and experience to guide Slovenia in its first year in the euro area, does not raise confidence in the political environment." Such an assessment of Standard&Poor's would have an important impact, in the future of course, on foreign investment as well as on capital costs, because the assessment is prepared on the basis of thorough analyses. Standard&Poor's assessment is very important for the reputation and public opinion in the financial world, so the actions of this coalition have already clearly damaged Slovenia's reputation in the financial world. However, the ignorance of this government coalition has no end and is clearly demonstrated by the fact that it did not even want to accept the interview of the candidate for governor, this is an offensive attitude towards the candidate for governor, the President of the State and, after all, the other members of the National Assembly. A statement by SDS Member Bojan Ruglja at one of the meetings of the National Assembly, which considered it best for the Government to appoint the Governor on its own, made clear the intention of the President of the Government and the coalition. It is obvious that the government and these coalitions, a coalition of willing, have interests that do not want an independent Bank of Slovenia to impose on the President of the candidate country, which is adapted to the interests of the current government. And why does the government coalition not want an independent Bank of Slovenia? Why does the government want to place a person as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia who will be the puppet of the Prime Minister? Since the Government wants to abolish independent supervision or control the Slovenian financial and banking institutions itself with the aim of untransparent privatisation of the Slovenian banking system, only independent Banka Slovenije could prevent it. For the time being, the Central Bank shall be independent and shall not be bound by law, nor shall the members of its decision-making bodies, to the decisions, opinions and instructions of the state or any authority, nor shall they be referred to the President of the Government, nor shall they be addressed by instructions or guidance. The Bank of Slovenia’s main objective is stability, price stability and, if not contrary, its overall macroeconomic policy supports, in accordance with the objectives set out in the Treaty establishing the EU, namely, the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia under the title of International Treaty No 7/04. In doing so, it must strive for financial stability, taking into account the principles of an open market economy and free competition. I propose that you, Members of Parliament and Members prove that we are wrong in the Liberal Democracy and that you support the proposal of the President of the State to elect the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. This will restore Slovenia's reputation in the eyes of the EU media and institutions. If you do not support this, you will also harm the economy of Slovenia, as you will further drive foreign investors away than in the case of NCBs in the New Ljubljana Bank. In order to maintain the confidence of Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in financial institutions, I propose that we support an independent candidate. The LDS Group supports him and will vote in favour of Mr Rant's election as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u5	Thank you. Mr Franz Ferri Horvat will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All due respect! The responsibility of the National Assembly, in particular the ruling majority, is very high in the re-decision on the proposal for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. With each new procedure or kind of correctional exam, this responsibility is greater. This is particularly true at the time when the mandate of the current Governor expires, at the very beginning of Slovenia's entry into the euro area. For Slovenia and its actual impact and credibility in the European Central Bank, it is important to appoint the Governor and the Governor himself as soon as possible. Formal equality in the world of governors is far from affecting the policies and decisions of the European Central Bank. The actual impact will depend on professional competence, experience at the central bank in banking, knowledge of public finances and other references. Therefore, it is no coincidence that the countries for governors often choose people from central banks. The estimates that there will be no special damage, as some have said when the Gaspari proposal fails, are either an expression of ignorance or an irresponsible underestimation of the role of the Governor in the new situation. The personal trust and acceptance of the Governor is very important for the successful work and influence of the European Central Bank and the European Union. Any repeated non-titlement of the proposed candidate would increase differences or even disputes between the President of the State, the President of the Government or the Government, as well as between the two and the National Assembly. This is not only a beautiful mistake, but it can undermine the credibility of the highest state institutions at home and abroad. Whether we are aware, colleagues and colleagues, that the decision on the Governor falls under the highest responsibility of the National Assembly, which finally decides, or better: the majority that decides the final outcome. Mr Rant, the candidate, according to our assessment, has personal qualities and expertise that justify his appointment. He was a member of the narrow negotiating group for accession to the European Union, has long experience in Banka Slovenije, from analytical to leading functions, as vice-governor. To those who say that he was not recognized enough or ahead, we must say that they do so either because of ignorance or by order. Those who have also been closely monitored as Members of this National Assembly on the process of negotiations for entry into the European Union, and in particular preparations for the takeover of the euro, we know that Mr Rant, even as a man of the background, as some say, has contributed significantly to the successful preparations for the introduction of the euro itself, in addition to Governor Gaspari. Among others, the Co-Chairs of the Technical Preparations Committee for the introduction of the euro were co-chaired, the results are known and recognised mainly abroad. Finally, the initial period of Slovenia's entry into the euro area is a particularly important fact that Mr Rant, as vice-governor, has been monitoring and monitoring the current governor at the meetings of the Council of the European Central Bank as its Deputy, and is thus introduced and trained to operate effectively in the ECB. By the way, Dr. Bajuk, Minister of Finance, spoke publicly about the meaningful continuity during the initial period of the Governor's recruitment. Thus, according to our assessment, his appointment at this time carries the least risks. If the coalition majority fails to take professional and rational arguments into account, it is obvious that the decision of the National Assembly on a purely politically motivated decision will be dominated by, in particular, the prestigious reasons or independence and independence of the President of the Republic in proposing or seeking the power of the President of the Government. This possible prestigious conflict is harmful or even dangerous to democracy in Slovenia and its pragmatic interests. We believe that the National Assembly should not participate in such a prestigious dispute because of its greatest responsibility in the whole matter and its own integrity; on the contrary, it should exercise its own legislative independence, legitimacy and responsibility. Opinions and, in fact, with the rule of law are unacceptable in order to amend the rules on the proposal and appointment of the Governor at the time of the proceedings. It is not surprising that the most respected lawyers, including Professor Bucar, have responded very critically to such thoughts. A number of comparisons between the appointment or selection of the Governor of the Central Bank show that in the majority of solutions it is a uniform principle that at least two responsible institutions in the country participate or co-decision in the selection of the Governor. There are few countries where authorities, the holy central banks, play an important role. The apriorally politically motivated rejection of the proposed candidate Rant shows the unwillingness of some coalition parliamentary groups to accept or accept Mr Rant's offer of presentation and readiness to answer questions that have also arisen in the public. Even if it is an organised pursuit and attempt to discredit the candidate, rather like Gasparija and now Ranta, it speaks volumes of outflows and manipulation of documents from the Bank of Slovenia, asking questions from Members, even disputes that go beyond legitimate and even desirable parliamentary curiosity, as it has been said, and a normal instrument of control over the executive power and unwarranted instigation of alleged sins for years ago, even though Parliament has considered the report of the Bank of Slovenia every year. And this is just before the decision is made in the National Assembly. These are methods, colleagues and colleagues that remind us of some other times and some other countries. For all that is said, we believe that the proposal of the President of the Republic should be supported and today appointed Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, both on principle and for practical reasons. Otherwise, we warn the government coalition, as well as the President of the Government, who is politically coordinating the ruling coalition, that he must clearly say how they will prevent a crisis in which, due to obvious political interests, they are pushing Slovenia. There is little overstatement of one of the Slovenian economists, who, in the past, was also critical of the Bank of Slovenia, in order for the political takeover of the Bank of Slovenia to result in a fall in the reputation and credibility of the Bank of Slovenia and the State of Slovenia in the European Central Bank and in the euro area. Continued complication and not naming the governor will also be a very bad trip for the governor, who will be named one day. The excuse that the main reason for the complications is that the President of the Republic has not consulted the parliamentary groups, which in our view would actually be good, is the transfer. The solution is in cooperation, for which there must be readiness on both sides or on all sides involved. However, it is not acceptable to impose the views of the ruling coalition on an ultimate basis. As long as this happens or if it continues, we will, as today, support the proposals of the President of the Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, distinguished advisor to the President of the State, Mrs Tovornikov, distinguished colleague and colleague, distinguished guests on the balcony. Slovenia is the only young member of the European Union to have managed to meet the Maastricht criteria and take over the euro. This should make us all more impressed, proud, and European recognition, and especially national self-confidence. Who's got the credit for that? Today certainly is not the time to work as a ranger of people or institutions that are most responsible for this truly great success of our country. Surely among them is Banka Slovenije, surely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, also the National Assembly and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenia is likely to be the only transit country in the euro area for some time. This fact must largely lay down the development and operation strategy of the Bank of Slovenia in the European Central Bank system and the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia in the Governing Council of the European Central Bank. The international visibility of Slovenia must also be strengthened through the operation of the Bank of Slovenia and its governor in the euro area. For Banka Slovenije, a completely new period began on 1 January 2007. The Governor of the Bank of Slovenia acts in the Governing Council of the European Central Bank as a person of his own conviction and personal integrity. The Bank of Slovenia must play a more important role in the regulation and in particular in the control of the Slovenian financial sector. This role must be clear primarily from the point of view of responsibility, in order to establish financial stability in the economy. Banka Slovenije is probably the only rare national banks in the euro area and wider, which in our view does not have sufficiently developed research activities. It is crucial for the substantive issues of the participation of the Bank of Slovenia and its Governor in the bodies of the European Central Bank. Even more important is the role of detailed analytical knowledge in establishing the necessary financial discipline and coordination with economic policy makers in countries. Due to the smallness of the Slovenian space, coordination and communication between the Bank of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is essential. The Bank of Slovenia has exceptional information capital, which is insufficiently used to support the Slovenian financial sector in entering foreign markets. Even less, the coordinated operation with the Government, which will play an important role in the economic and political visibility of Slovenia in the international environment due to the changed role of Banka Slovenije in the euro area. The current procedure, respected colleagues and colleagues, of electing the new Governor of the Bank of Slovenia of Slovenia is not proud. The story is so complicated that it suffers the reputation of the President of the State, suffers the reputation of the National Assembly of the proposed candidates and also suffers the reputation of the National Assembly, which is responsible for the Bank of Slovenia. On the other hand, Europe recognises, if we are not alone because of the typical Slovenian characteristics, that Slovenia is doing well. Let's look at economic trends, look at inflation trends. In the New Slovenia Group, we feel that the first round of the governor's election has not yet been completed and we already have a third candidate for governor or second candidate in the National Assembly, Mr Andrej Rant. Mr Rant to the New Slovenia Group is clearly disregarding the principle of equality of treatment, probably because Nova Slovenije, as the only member group, has interviewed both of them at the invitation of the President of the State to the candidates for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, and he was not invited by Mr Gaspari and Mr Jazbec. We answer to Mr. Rant. If we are talking about the principle of equality of treatment, then we need to find an answer to the question of how it is to violate this principle, if one of the applicants is simply rejected without an interview and an answer, and one who does not apply is proposed to the National Assembly. Otherwise, Mr Rant has received several written questions at this time that he did not want to answer. The question is, how would you answer it live? Mr Rant received a live question at the 7th meeting of the National Assembly, on 18 July 2001, when the National Assembly considered the annual report of the Bank of Slovenia for 2000. He was questioned by the then opposition Member and the current finance minister and was concerned with the supervision of the operation of the New Ljubljana Bank branch in New York, more specifically at the LBS Bank in 2000. Mr Rant said, quote: "We don't have special branch inspectors, the Inspectorate does a service organised for this in Banka Slovenije, this is a supervisory department, and it deals with banks, which includes branches." End of quote. According to our data, an inspection was carried out at the LBS Bank in 2000, which lasted even about a month. The National Assembly and even less Slovenian taxpayers were not familiar with the inspection report. So, at that meeting on 18 July 2001, Mr Rant was deceiving the National Assembly because he needed to know that the inspection of the LBS had indeed been carried out. This is one of the reasons why the New Slovenia Group cannot trust Mr Rant to lead the Bank of Slovenia. However, I repeat, for us the first round of the election of the Governor of Banka Slovenije has not yet been completed. We look forward to a preliminary discussion with the President of the country. This will be for the benefit of all, and this will contribute to a better political climate in Slovenia. We note the principle of equality of treatment and still believe that in Slovenia it is a pleasure to go to third. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Position of the Slovenian National Party under point 1. When the President of the country was a respected Mr Milan Kučan, in similar cases, for the first time, he invited all the leaders of the parliamentary groups or their representatives to discuss the views, opinions on his proposal. Secondly, when Mr Milan Kučan was President of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, he usually took into account alternative proposals offered to the leaders of the parliamentary groups or representatives of the parliamentary groups. And he made a proposal to the National Assembly for a candidate under the authority of the President of the State, according to the discussions and alternative options. In the Slovenian National Party we estimate that it is not good that Mr Janez Drnovšek, the current President of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, did not do so. Another time. The Slovenian national party has its own position, regardless of whether the lions are ascribed to the right and the right to the left. I will read to you a letter dated 23 May, or a letter dated 23 May 2002, from my distinguished fellow Member, the Member of the Slovenian National Party and today the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Sašo Peče, to Mr Mitja Gaspari. "Dear Mr. Governor! On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, on behalf of and on behalf of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, I invite you to: for the first time, under the provisions of Article 224 of the Banking Act, wait for the decision to issue a permit for the acquisition of a qualified share of a foreign NCB in the New Ljubljana Bank or wait until the deadline, as we have entered into the parliamentary procedure of the Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Privatisation of the New Ljubljanska Bank d.d. and New Banks Maribor d.d. At the same time, the collection of signatures for the invitation to tender for the previous legislative referendum is under way with the slogan "Against the sale of Slovenian banks". Secondly, according to the provisions of Article 19 of the Banking Act, you shall not grant permission to acquire a qualifying share of the NCBs in the New Ljubljana Bank. I hope" - I am still quoting a letter from Mr Gaspari, at the time was Vice-Governor Mr Rant - that you will respond to my call, as you can also monitor that the majority of the professional public is skeptical when buying the shares of the New Ljubljana Bank by KBC. And" - I conclude the quote - "Remember, Mr Mitja Gaspari, it was written, as well as its own words and its expert opinions at the 13th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which was held on 27 July 1994." That was an honest letter to the minister, then, if you'll excuse me, to the governor and vice-governor, Mr. Rant. And what was the attitude toward this letter, to a celebrity’s consciousness, to the warning: Do not sell out our wealth and our labor and work when we have barely become a country! It was as if this letter had never been written and sent. It's like he's gone! It's not. And the sale was a glass, given the knowledge of Minister Gaspari and the knowledge of the governor and the vice-governor. Already with Mr Gaspari, with all due respect for his results, we have said clearly and loudly: Those who sell Slovenian values and do not respond to our letter are not worthy of appointment. And equally, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, there is a relationship with Mr Rant, so that we can complement another element that is purely and solely professional, that Mr Vice-Governor, today proposed for the appointment of Governor, of course guilty of all developments in the supervision of the SIB Bank, the computer security system in the Ljubljana Bank, and that we are not talking about what was happening in NLB New York, Frankfurt. These are facts and the Slovenian National Party absolutely stands in its position: whoever sells, despite warnings, Slovenian values, Slovenian wealth, Slovenian banks, will never, at least on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, be at the head of those banks that sell them. Never! And ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand and on the other, please do not mention how Slovenia has been damaged in the eyes of the European Union, how our reputation in international institutions is failing. It is true that 2 million Slovenians are citizens of the European Union, one large country and within this large country is young, independent, recognised, worthy, respected and our favorite country Republic of Slovenia. So far, so democratic. And who, who will be our greatest asset and judge us from the outside? Who? The Slovenian national party does not recognise this. No Europe can accuse us of whether we will appoint a governor or not and who we will appoint in the country of the Republic of Slovenia as governor or not, no one in Europe. The one we will choose from Slovenians, regardless of monetary policy, whatever is being pursued in the European Union. Slovenians have their own national bank, Slovenians will tell us who will be the governor of this national bank, not this political option, not any other political option. For the time being, Slovenians still have their national bank, so far we have Slovenians still have a relationship with their workers and to their economy, which must adapt to Europe, but not in such a way that they adapt to it by appointing some gentleman as governor who sold our values because Europe will say, "What kind of a gentleman are you?" I am as Slovenian as you are now, and we will choose the Governor of the National Bank and then who will be liked by the majority after a year and after the results of his work and after his attitude towards Slovenia. Once again, by profession, by relation to Slovenian values and by relation to knowledge. So much on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, which does not tilt left or right. We are ashamed that they ignored our letter that they sold out Slovenian banks and are now shouting at what they want. Such people who sell our values in the Slovenian National Party will never receive any support, ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Aloise Posedel will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. All in attendance, all in attendance! On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, I convey the following position, which is that we will support in the vote the proposal of the President of the State to appoint Andrei Rant as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Otherwise, I could spend all the time that our Group of Members has at its disposal to list all the reasons why we have taken such a decision. These reasons were very clear in the President's proposal, they were confirmed in the professional sphere and presented by some colleagues before me today. However, because we are very rational in our parliamentary group and because, given the current situation and way of working and thinking in the Slovenian Parliament, the listing of all the arguments for such a decision would be unnecessary waste of time, it is right to allow those who want and must vote against it as soon as possible. If you had respected the law under which the President of the State and not the President of the Government proposed it, and if you had respected all the professional criteria and not the political criteria, then today we would not have voted on Mr Rant's candidate at all, since Members and Members would have previously elected Mr Gaspari's first proposed honourable Member. Therefore, in the end, let me just reiterate that our Group of Non-Aligned Members will vote in favour of Mr Rant's proposed candidate. Finally, it is only a proposal for some colleagues and colleagues to take account of their conscience and their own convictions, not of any other method.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u13	Thank you! Mr Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u14	Dear Mr. President! Honourable representative of the institution of the President of the State, colleague and colleague! The parliamentary group will support the candidate for Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Our reasons are that the candidate fulfils the conditions and is undoubtedly able to perform this responsible function. The candidate was proposed by the President of the Republic in accordance with his or her powers. We also discussed the candidate with the President of the Republic at his kind invitation. The candidate therefore enjoys our support and will get our votes. In doing so, we stress that the opposite arguments, including coalition partners and others, are of no value to us. They're attracted to the hair at a time when they're supposed to stain the candidate's good name in one way or another. Worse still, even the Bank of Slovenia, which is suddenly presented as a problematic institution, which will be flawless only when a man, governor, sits in it, delights most of this coalition. The DeSUS Group has been hampered by this understanding of democratic processes in this country and does not want to participate. In our opinion, there is also unwarranted opposition and disrespect not only for the President of the State but also for the institutions of the President of the State, which is unacceptable to us. Our Group also regrets that and will continue to harm Slovenia's reputation in the EU and beyond. It is simply our shared responsibility in such a matter that, under the current term of office, we elect the new Governor of the Bank of Slovenia as soon as possible. That is why we represent the position to give support to Mr Rant, who deserves it. In doing so, we reject today, on the day of the drawdown, both to the candidate and to the Bank of Slovenia, who were nowhere two years ago. The country's perceptions, however, point to the level of political culture that is at the bottom of our lives in many ways. The DeSUS Group wants to be honest about the matter itself and will give its absolute support to the candidate and the emergency following the election of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u15	Thank you. I hereby conclude the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Rugelj, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u16	Thank you very much, President. I will explain, Mr Petek, when presenting the LDS Group or the LDS Group's position, said that I, in a debate on Monday for the proposal of Mr Turk's Minister for Development, would also be right to appoint the Government as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. This is a very big lie, or there's nothing new about LDS. But I must, unfortunately, say and also ask the question later that the truth was such that in this debate I said how important the Ministry of Development is for our economy, and I also said that the Bank of Slovenia has key levers and instruments in its hands [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u17	Mr Rugelj [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u18	which also affect the development of our economy and that I personally believe it would be right to not appoint the Governor for the Bank of Slovenia, but to propose to the Government of this National Assembly, here [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u19	Mr. Rugelj, this is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u20	That was my opinion. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u21	either a replica or a controversy, but this is not a procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u22	The question is, what can a person do when someone tells you the truth? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u23	Then include in the debate if you are on the list of applicants and give your opinion. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present. Let us ask our respectable colleague and colleagues what we have not only with this but with what many suggestions the President of the country has recently said. It tells us that we do have the right under the Constitution to appoint the Governor of the Central Bank and that it is true that this National Assembly by law has granted him the right to propose to this Governor or candidate, but God forbid that the National Assembly should allow itself to accept the proposal that is appropriate for him. That's what the president of the country is telling us. That's bad. Poor for democracy in Slovenia, because it shows a complete misunderstanding of relations between the institutions of power in this country. The law provides that the candidate for governor shall be proposed by the President and shall be decided by the National Assembly, as provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. There is implicitly agreement, communication, the search for the best solutions, some consensual approach that ultimately leads to a proposal that is acceptable to the majority. According to this logic, respected colleagues and colleagues, the President of the State would come to the formation of a new National Assembly with a mandate-holder to whom he would say he is most suitable for me, although he would know that he does not have a majority in the National Assembly, but God forbid that you do not confirm him. The situation here is exactly the same. This process is undemocratic, undemocratic, and I must say that it is not at the level of the institution that the President of the country must represent. Because, by nature, it must represent this interlinking element, representing negotiation, communication, otherwise, it can be its sovereign right, and there is no legal basis for what I am now saying. He can propose and thus take the risk of such a proposal being voted on or not. However, he takes the risk, and he assumes this responsibility. And in this particular case, it is only the President's responsibility. Only the president and he, God forbid, will have to take her on his own. He's alone, no one else. Not the President of the Government, not the Government which is not involved in this process at all, and not this National Assembly, which has the sovereign right to decide on the candidates and, in so far as it considers that a candidate is not appropriate and appropriate, so the appointment is rejected by the sovereign. There will be no institutional crisis, which some of the implications assume, will be no institutional crisis. It would be very wrong and it would be very bad if in this process we really wanted to change the rules of the game, very wrongly, God forbid, no, so it must stay the way it is, and in this process the rules of the game and relationship must be adjusted, but also if the central bank has one year, as far as I am concerned, no damage to the governor. The one I repeat, who has cooked this matter again, must take full responsibility. You were talking about the government and how blasphemous it would be if you called the governor Vlad. We know the arrangements. In France, it is called the Government, in Portugal, appointed by the Government on the advice of the Finance Minister, in Italy by the Government, in Luxembourg by the Grand Duke on the proposal of the Government, in Japan by the Government after the approval of Parliament, etc., and these are certainly at least as many countries, if not as much longer a democratic tradition as we have in Slovenia. Independence should be guaranteed only by an expert who is "kobayagi" independent. Is he really independent because someone feels that he is indeed an independent former governor or the current governor by the end of March who came from these parliamentary groups to this governor’s seat? It can be, I suppose nothing that, because he came from this assembly, he was not independent, I do not assume anything, but it can also be an independent someone who has no such or other "background" and who, I must say, did not participate in an institution that, after everything we have heard and what we have read in the last period, we see that something in it is wrong, that it does not work well, that data is leaked on the one hand, that on the other hand, legal powers are not exercised and that independence is not advocated by the law itself, because this institution will be as independent as it will work under the law, that the law guarantees, respected colleagues and not a person. A law to be respected. For this reason, I do not think that the procedure is appropriate and I think that the relationship between the applicants and those who decide to change will have to change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u25	Thank you. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u26	Dear colleagues and colleagues. A good year ago you introduced a new term for experts, "so-called experts", and under this understanding you disqualified them as controversial or non-creditable experts, today I hear a new term, today a new term, called "kobayagi" experts, has been replaced. "Kobayagi" experts, it is said, have just been introduced by my predecessor for, I think, Mr Rant, probably also thought of Mr Gaspari, as expressed by "kobayagi" experts. Today I can again ask whether the people who helped Slovenia enter the European monetary system are "cobajagi" experts or experts. If you need a number of mounted processes, of course, very poorly performed, as transparently and uncreditably as you have served with Mr Gaspari and as you now serve with Mr Rant, then it is better to play open games and not wrap in packages of mounted processes the methods by which you disqualify people who have given much in this Slovenia and who have been clapping them before and before the euro is received. Fragmentation by institutions has been relatively simple in these good two years, either it was substitutions, or it was removals, cancellations, relocations and withdrawals, and I think these numbers are already in thousands of cases. If that is not the case, you have used a somewhat more demanding procedure, that is to say, changes to the legislation. There was some kind of lack of Banka Slovenije here, and time has run out of you. I know you would have changed the law, which you are now referring to by various analyses of the operation in other countries. However, the work that takes place in the event of the appointment of the Governor of Banka Slovenije during the last days or months does not lead to an uncreditable situation and does not lead to disrespect for the President of the State, but rather you here in the National Assembly. I'm not talking about us, I'm talking about you, because I'm also going to support this candidate that the President of the country proposed. But I think that whoever, I'm gonna say, you're involved in this kind of dirty business, you have to take responsibility. On me, when I support the candidate, there can be no such responsibility, but I can wonder what credibility will remain today, not only in Slovenia, but also outside Slovenian space, when people ask why you are punishing those who have done constructively so far also for the good of Slovenia and its banking system, and after all also taking over the euro, but you want to carry out the whole process of replacements, human resources rosads. That's more than we once said tsunami. This is an absolute earthquake that works in terms of truly taking over all levers, institutions and authorities. This is shocking, and even more shocking is the fact that the good work of men is rewarded with punishment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Blackach, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u28	Thank you very much. So maybe it wasn't right for me to express myself so harshly. On the other hand, I'm happy now that I've heard it. Because I can tell you why I said that. This work of yours, it brings me to the point that I'm right. For your view is that they are professional and political, I will use expressions, uncontaminated only those which you think so, and no one else. It's something I don't understand. So, only those that you put in places when you had most of the decision-making are appropriate, and all the others can't be and are not appropriate. I wonder why we're going to make some calls, we're choosing the best, why the candidate, who also proved all the professional references completely ignored, no one asked him or anything, not why. We had the same case in another call when it came to a constitutional judge, and thank God that time frame of motion was much happier, and then the candidate was, despite the fact that the President did not consult the National Assembly with a large majority, even a two-thirds term, but these are random constellations that we cannot use in any case. But I also said this because you have a case here in this National Assembly, sitting in the first bench, Mr. Milan Squeakl. Mr Milan Cvikl was rejected on your part in the third or fourth attempt to appoint three years ago when you were still in power, despite all the expertise he could not read, for the President of the Court of Auditors, but there was no talk at the time about the institutional crisis, nor the breakdown of the system of public finances control in the Republic of Slovenia, nor of anything like that, there was no talk of wanting to stand up for someone who was politically more compatible than someone else, because he was not as firm in the party as he was later. We haven't heard anything about it. In accordance with the mandate and responsibility given by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly simply decided and, in the fourth or fifth attempt, appointed the President of the Court of Auditors and we cannot say that he had made a bad choice at the time, we cannot say. We do not know what it would be like to be someone else, and we will never know it, but it was his democratic right to decide, knowing all the circumstances and references of individual candidates, as he had decided. And that's why I was talking about when you said "kobayagi" expertise, I didn't speak in this under-appreciative sense, but in the sense that some attribute it to just one, and the other apriori can't have it, it's not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good bye to all of you! I myself am one of those Members who, in the past days, asked two written questions and the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, Mr Nučič marked the question as strange, if not odd. So, Members of Parliament, we're the weirdos who ask such Members' questions. The questions raised by the Members of Parliament were also controversial: "You have authority in hand, why you ask questions from Members of Parliament", and it does not say that the positions, coalition Members should not ask written or oral questions from Members of Parliament. Apparently, strange parliamentary questions are only when they concern the Bank of Slovenia or the business of Slovenian banks. Therefore, we can mark the strange or strange forecast of Mr Nučič, who says they will file a criminal complaint against an unknown offender at the Bank of Slovenia for leaking confidential documents to the public. Strangely, it is strange that in Banka Slovenije they could arrange their business in such a way that these documents do not go public. And this is primarily the task of the Governor and their deputies, including Mr Nučič and Mr Rant. It would be even better if the energy were directed there, for which we have the Bank of Slovenia. Mr Nučič repeats in his statements the old patterns we have witnessed in the past. When I wrote myself at the end of the 1990s about money laundering in one of the state banks that has a business in Koroška, the police were most interested in where I obtained my documents and were interrogating me long and long. They didn't care what happened in this state-owned bank, and they also refused a criminal complaint if there was no known source of money laundering. Of course, the inherent laundering of money is simply that the source of money is not known or that the source of money is hidden. In my parliamentary question addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not to the Bank of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, there are the same actors as they performed in Novi KBM in Koroškem. I have asked a modest question to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that, on 9 December, MM Logitrend, in the majority ownership of Mr Zakeršnik and his sons, has applied to LHB in Frankfurt for a loan of EUR 30 million. Although MM Logitrend was then a new client of LHB and it was a huge amount, this loan was granted within six days. On the part of the bank, the President and a member of the Board of Directors Boris Zakrášek and Nikola Mrkič are signed on a loan contract and the loan was intended, i.e. for the purchase of Eurocity, a company owned by Mr Zakeršnik in Slovenj Gradc. Later there were several more credits and I addressed five questions to the Government: How can it be that a credit of EUR 30 million was granted in record time without the necessary verification of procedures and procedures? What insurance for LHB Frankfurt claims for such a high amount of credit? What were the procedures for granting credit insurance? What did Banka Slovenije do after this case was discovered? Is it tax evasion? In short, I was wondering if we would allow ourselves to have money launderers in foreign state property, either directly or indirectly. One year ago, she spoke or wrote about this, issued a general opinion of the so-called Kosovo Commission, in principle opinion No. 40 says in explanation: "On February 2006 the Commission received a notice from the notifier to prevent corruption that corruption of more than €10 million would occur in one of the Slovenian banks' foreign subsidiaries. The applicant has attached several documents to substantiate his statements." Maybe these are the documents the Bank of Slovenia is looking for today. Further: "The applicant's data indicates that the loan was granted only because the natural person could hide the real source of money with it." And so on. And so on. I said days ago that the Slovenian police, the prosecution and the judiciary should be sent to bankruptcy and that the next day they should organise everything on new healthy foundations. Today I am adding Banka Slovenije to this. The programmed political bankruptcy also waits slowly for the proposer who sends these strange proposals to this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Moge has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u32	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The old Latins said, "You're a duck, a pair of bellum." "If you want peace, prepare war" and something similar to that logic is on this human resources issue in banking. With the human resources tsunami that has cleared the work, RTV, state-owned companies, scientific institutes and intelligence and security services, the banking system is now, of course, in my opinion. Recently, we have witnessed this phenomenon to a greater extent in the financial direction than I imagined when this wave clapped at the beginning of Mr Gaspari's appointment. At the same time, it's an interesting way to flush out incompatible candidates. First, an imaginary affair, supported by the disclosure of irregularities from secret or other acts of the financial institution, is then the political discreditation of such a candidate. In this way, in my view, it is a clan in the fact that the position of all the tools for detecting irregularities in its hands, both the prosecution and the Ministry of Justice, both the Ministry of the Interior and the criminal service, both inspection and all the other things. Thus, rather than at the state level, there are Members who do not know, of course, that certain political lobbyists have abused them in order to achieve a specific political objective. I think that, in most cases, they are abused, as I said, by members who activate the affairs and discredit the candidates, at the same time with all the authority, and members of the coalition are also setting up investigative commissions, which are also run by themselves and thus play the role of the seeming opposition. I respect everything that has happened to Comrade Petk and will, to the extent that he is in my power, also help to make the truth come true once, but he spoke completely as an opposition Member, as if the institutions of this country were not working. The president of the biggest government party spoke there, and I just stared as if he were from the opposition. A bunch of irregularities he said, a bunch of these things that his government is responsible for not cleaning up here. I really think that Slovenia is slowly getting opposition under B, against the first opposition, which I do not know how good. This role has the reputation of the National Assembly, since, in the abuse of Members, the National Assembly has become only the voting tool of the largest opposition party. At the same time, these appointments also led to a clear fight for the predominance between the Prime Minister and the President of the State. I look from afar, and I feel more and more that this is more about prestige between the presidents than it is about action, about the welfare of Slovenia. At the same time, when Gaspari fell and the same fate is written to Mr Rant, there is an increasing demand for clearance of personnel in Nova Ljubljanska Banka and New Bank of Maribor, where additional and more than obvious winds in the sails are filled by members of the coalition or more precisely the largest government party. The political fight in the management of the banking field will certainly affect foreign investment and capital costs, as well as the political stability of Slovenia, as this reduces the image and public opinion in the financial world, once an exemplary financial operation of the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore call, from this city, as a member of the National Assembly, both presidents to stop playing with the welfare of Slovenia and everyone in their area, to ensure, within their respective powers, the normal choice of the first man of the Bank of Slovenia. However, I think that this President's project has already stopped the horses, as it is slowly approaching April 1st and we cannot afford to see doubts in the international public about the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Slovenia as the President is not elected. I think that the last gestures that have been taken from both sides are also those that point in this direction, and I want them to have a little more humane relationship with the people we first clapped for, and here we have been watering them from head to toe since we were admitted to the financial system. That's the kind of system I've been since I was [[...]] [[Excluding microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u34	Respectable. I believe that Slovenia cannot detract from the decision of the highest, directly elected body, Parliament, in which, in accordance with the Constitution, all Members are primarily accountable to citizens and not primarily to the President of the parties, as we are accused here. I therefore strongly reject the accusations and instigations of some fellow Members that by rejecting a proposed candidate for Governor of the Bank of Slovenia we make a mark on Slovenia. Only a dirty interpretation of a democratic and legitimate decision can make a mark. But those who do so in the international public should ask themselves about their well-intention toward their country. The democratic decisions of the Parliament of a sovereign state cannot be a stain on the international political stage. With regard to the current candidate, Mr Rant, the position of the New Slovenia Group has already been stated by our leader, Mr Jožef Horvat, and I point out only that what Nova Slovenija has read to the President of the State in proposing a candidate for a constitutional judge, we must now repeat the same with regard to the proposal for a run for governor, which we are talking about today. The President of the State does not want a civilised and democratic country to have a normal dialogue with the Parliament, which elects the Governor, but he is arguing with the President of the Government, who has nothing to do with it. So it was not necessary for him to propose a candidate who made a call in the first round, but, arrogantly, in my opinion, without a public invitation, he himself proposed a candidate who clearly knew that he did not have a choice in the National Assembly, because he knew that the right hand was already a failed candidate, Mitja Gaspari. This seems to me to be the provocation, stubbornness and prestige of the President of the country, who is not state-favoured. In view of this, I think this is my personal opinion that it is necessary to seriously consider how to amend legislation so that it does not occur. For the National Assembly is the highest democratic body in this country, plurally composed, and I think it would be appropriate for the call for candidates to be given to the National Assembly and also to make the final choice that such situations could no longer occur. I'll back it up myself if it's possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Members and Members of Parliament. Banka Slovenije’s main goal is to build the confidence of citizens, savers in the banking system, and the Banka Slovenije’s main goal is to ensure the security of money deposits. The characteristics of banks are that only every 8 euro is covered by capital, so the regulator's ability to identify potential anomalies and citizens' confidence in the central bank in a timely manner is at the heart of the stability of each financial system. What do you, as a ruling coalition, do with this premise? It is not about breaking the President's proposal, it is about undermining the confidence of citizens of Slovenia in the ability of Slovenian politics to see that seven out of eight euros are defended by independent people. The attacks on Mr Gaspari, his political, hypocritical discredit, after having achieved the euro with Slovenia, is part of the breakdown of this mistrust. He attacks Mr Andrej Rant, attacks on Deputy Governor Sam Nučič, you say he can't control Probank because his wife works in Probank. Gentlemen, please, this means that everything is allowed in this Slovenia. You're saying that the responsible opposition should ask what you're doing as an irresponsible coalition. I answer to you, what President Janez Janša granted on Monday, when he was here sowing doubts that Slovenian supervisory institutions are not exercising proper control over the financial system, is a miscommunication to Slovenian savers. This is a message from the agency's Standard & Poor's Ratings. They say not to elect Mr Gaspari, to discuss Mr Rant, to discuss Mr Nučič, to send trusted documents to the public undermines confidence in the political system. In the former country, people did not trust the political system, so they did not trust money in domestic banks. You're playing with the foundation of the economic system. And it's an irresponsible ruling coalition. And finally, about the candidate. Mr. Jazbec and Mr. Rant are both Vice Governors. The difference between them is in gray hair and in experience. Mr Andrej Rant was Vice-Governor and Deputy National Bank of Slovenia as part of the Yugoslav monetary system at the time of Slovenia's independence and was responsible to Dr Marko Kranjec, as then finance minister, to prepare independent legislation of the independent state. Mr. Jazbec has not yet done such an act. In a few years, I believe the governor will be capable. To say that this is not Mr Rant, however, is ignorance of the facts and demeaning. Ask yourself what [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u37	Thank you. Dr. Gantar has the word. He's not here. Mr. Skull, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This debate is subject to more words than Mr Rant to devote to what we have heard here. I'd start by saying that the SDS is obvious and acts like an official party. He's using tested, be careful, I'll be very thorough, Bolshevik methods. The speech by the leader of the parliamentary group suggests that the role of the prosecutor of the party is closer to him than a democratic debate. And this client who has all the power in his possession and who has all the truth with it. Therefore, we really need to pay attention to the methods that shape decision-making in this National Assembly and which it enforces, and I will say so myself, the so-called democratic party. What's he doing? First, he suggests that something is wrong. At the next moment, he claims that this is true because, look out, the person who was suspected was not accused in time and was credible in disposing of all suspicions. It's a method. If the rule of law applied to an innocent person, if not proven guilty, the so-called Democratic Party had established that the guilty party was guilty of not being able to prove its innocence. What have we all been listening to here today? We decide on the proposal that the Governor be Mr Rant. My colleagues are talking about the mistakes that Vice Governor Nučič is supposed to make. Is it possible to attribute errors to someone else, which then make no third choice? We're acting like it's possible. We hear it was Rant's fault if he wasn't guilty of being guilty. See what this language says to turn the National Assembly into a court of law. That's why I'm saying it. What's the next step? If you have no doubt given judgment today, I expect you to do your prison duties tomorrow. That's a logical next step. We know of such customers where all power has been concentrated. We really know them, lucky for us, or at least my generation of textbooks and history. I hope this doesn't happen again. See, today, towards the end of his debate, Mr Tanko said that Mr Rant, this was the second time he was mentioned, "a part of this illegal and ignorant relationship between the Bank of Slovenia and the National Assembly". So the Bank of Slovenia works illegally and ignorantly. At the time, I wondered why he did not propose the abolition of Banka Slovenije, but this miracle was quickly completed by colleague Friday. At the time, I saw that perhaps Mr. Tank was just running out of time to bring this thought to its end. Mr Petek has already put in bankruptcy if I remember the police, the judiciary, the prosecution and today the Bank of Slovenia and the Presidency and the President of the Republic. The only thing that remains pure in this country is the so-called Democratic Party, the only thing that goes bankrupt. And you know that it's already been done once, and I'm going to say, this strong concentration of power has been followed by very serious abuses that have left consequences, and I'm going to tell civilization of humanity.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The appointment of the Governor of Banka Slovenije continues and everything shows that it will not end so soon. When the coalition rejected the first candidate for President of the State, the former Governor of Magi Mitja Gaspari is almost certain that the same fate awaits candidate Andre Rant. However, this is not good for the reputation of the State. At the end of the term of office of the former Governor of Magi. Mitje Gaspari all the elements speak in favour of the fact that there was no professional argument at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, except for the human resources coalition kitchen, that the candidate was then rejected. Inflation is at the lowest level today, the budget deficit is not worrying, we have solid economic growth. At the end of his term of office, we can therefore find that the Bank of Slovenia has maintained a good monetary policy and that the country has a stable financial system. It is not negligible that even in the annual report of one of the world's most respected credit rating houses Standard&Poor's, I note that "the recent decision of Parliament that for the Governor of the Central Bank clearly does not for political reasons confirm Mitja Gaspari, who had the necessary knowledge and experience to guide Slovenia in its first year in the euro area, does not raise confidence in the political environment. The fact is that our country's reputation in the financial and economic sphere has undoubtedly improved over the past five years. That is why it is so much more surprising that the current authority is playing with the appointment of a governor, as it is clear that this is quickly observed in today's global world. Will the story of the governor be repeated in the third act of the saga? I hope not. The new candidate for governor, Andrej Rant, also has professional references and years of experience in this area. Therefore, it is more than obvious that the political incompatibility of the applicant and, above all, the candidate with the current ruling suit has also prevailed in this case. Andrej Rant was the closest associate of the former governor, Dr. Arhar, and it is therefore worth reminding us that Dr. Arhar of his former vice-governor supported this candidacy today. I looked at the magnetograms of the meetings of the mother working body and the National Assembly of July 2004, when we elected Andre Rant as Vice Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. At the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, he obtained a vote of no vote against. There was no debate either. Even the opposition MPs were silent. No quasi arguments against, like today, when you pulled them out of naphthalene for rejection. Similarly, in the plenary session, even for the discussion, members of the opposition at the time were reported, Mag. A trifle, today's President of Parliament Tsukati and Franci Rokavec, have not responded. If we had any serious concerns about the candidate for the then vice-governor, the then leader of the opposition would certainly have called. Candidate Rant then won 52 votes in favour and only 6 votes against. But this time, unfortunately not for the first time and unfortunately not for the last time, the rule of Oman will be fulfilled "no matter what you know, it is important that you are ours". Negative human rights-party policy will take revenge on us in this country sooner or later. One of the distinguished experts will even want to put himself on the parliamentary stage! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr Moze, in his debate, wondered why we are even reminding the coalition Members of some illegalities, some mistakes, some of the behaviours that restrict them to the criminal area, while we are still in the hands of the law enforcement institution, so that these institutions can commit, find, find and sanction them accordingly. He mentioned the D.A.'s office, the inspection, etc. Now I do not know if perhaps Mr Member has judged by himself when they were in power and they used such mechanisms so that they could then deal with such phenomena. I believe that he did not judge by himself, but that it was a lapasus, because, as we know, these institutions are independent institutions and act in accordance with the laws and cannot act in such a way that the ruling coalition orders them something. As far as the appointment process is concerned, I'll say the following. The procedure for appointing the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia is very clear. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the National Assembly shall appoint a Governor. However, the Constitution itself does not provide for a more detailed method of appointment, but the Bank of Slovenia Act authorizes the President of the Republic of Slovenia to propose to the National Assembly a candidate, who will then be confirmed by the National Assembly or not. The President proposed Mr Gaspari's candidate first, and after the National Assembly did not adopt this proposal, he now proposes Mr Rant. Today, the National Assembly is considering this proposal and will take its decision after its consideration. Whether the President's proposal is accepted or not. Whatever the National Assembly decides will be right. The decision of each Member, whatever it may be, will be correct. No one will be able to account for anything, either that he has decided to support Mr Rant as governor, or that he has not. The Member shall always have the same right to vote in favour or to vote against each decision. Everyone has his reasons and arguments for how he or she will decide on a case-by-case basis. That is why, of course, I cannot agree to the constant findings of some self-proclaimed, independent experts and analysts, as well as of respectable fellow members of the opposition groups, that those who have already announced that the President's proposal to appoint Mr Rant as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia will not be supported, thus denying the state-of-the-art and calling them guilty of blocking the financial system in the country of Slovenia. First of all, talking about blocking the financial system in Slovenia is a lot of nonsense, because the system, when there is no governor for a while, does not fall apart, and the governor, of course if good, can only contribute added value within this system. But the governor isn't the one who works with him, and without him, he's falling apart. Such a thesis is a simple demagogy that does not deserve a serious analysis and a serious response. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are already on the proposal for the appointment of mags. The Gaspari gave reasons why we did not agree to his appointment. We have said that despite its undisputed merits in the process of involving Slovenia in the euro area, there are also periods of some errors made by the Bank of Slovenia, which have also had significant adverse consequences. Not to mention all of this, there has been a lot of talk about it today. In addition, with some highly unbiased and exaggerated thanks, we have said that no one is irreplaceable and that there are still some highly qualified financial experts in Slovenia who could successfully lead the Bank of Slovenia without anyone being able to tell them any political connection, as was the case with mags. Gasparium. Well, and very similar reasons concerning mag. Gasparija, the reasons why we decided not to support it, also applies to Mr Rant, who has been a close associate and vice-governor of Banka Slovenije for many years. And let me also say that, for these reasons, I will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u43	Thank you. Replica has Mr. Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u44	Thank you very much. President, this is another rhetorical pearl that says the following in its message value: "If you have done badly, we will do even worse." People have chosen you, Mr Kovacic, to bring a new wind of relaxation to Slovenia, something else and the way you work here, in my opinion, as a Member, is completely unacceptable to me, this is nothing new. I was born in that paradise, and I lived in Titus, and I know long enough the ways and methods of political work. In this way as you are now doing this thing is impossible, you will have to take responsibility if not sooner than in the elections. Yeah, who's on top of the justice system? Who cares about this operation? Who's on top of intelligence? Who's on top of the crime police? And so on and so forth. And if there are such terrible irregularities, I'm terrified here when I listen to you, then I live in a terrible country that doesn't even have a self-regulatory way of eliminating these phenomena. But to think of what Scholch said about these events without being proven and thus branding here people who cannot defend themselves, but to me, forgive the expression, it seems low. And that is why I would expect from you after you have received such a large majority, but you have a stable position that you will enter a new wind into this National Assembly, that the arguments will be more valid, that respect for the institutions will be more valid, and that the vocabulary used here and the arguments used here are as offensive to the candidates we are talking about as it is insulting to the citizens and citizens of the Republic and to all the employees in those institutions that you are giving them such or other adjectives as the people who have probably brought us into the European monetary system certainly do not deserve. I think that the level of dialogue in this National Assembly should be different than it is now. I have only warned and acknowledge in my speech, Mr Kovacic, that the people who were also in the Government from my party have not always done well and have received what they are in the elections. But that's why I expect you to do better, not talk, like I said, "if they did bad, we'll do worse" and you apologize for your actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! In my debate, I will not deal with what they think about the candidate for governor of others, but I will say my position and on the basis of it I will also decide, and here I will clearly and loudly tell the candidate who trusts the Slovenian public, Slovenia and Slovenia, I will give my voice and support. I simply and simply think that the euro and the governor are not and should not be the currently liked political toys, this moment is very current and tomorrow forgotten and discarded. The message of such a debate and of this campaign, which has been going on for several weeks, is in every way sad and tragic. Look, the message we're sending to the Slovenes and to the Slovenes and to Europe, the governor is someone in this country who is and must like the current authorities. That's a bad message. I've read the explanation. I've read Mr. Rant's history. There's nothing to tell him as a candidate. There have been many successful stories, positive for this country, and in view of the experience so far, there is neither the slightest doubt nor the slightest reason, he trusts such a respectable, experienced man in the future. Today, we judge the candidate by the cover, how and how he was proposed, what could be done to him, what could not be done to him. But very little has been heard about the substance itself, which is essential. And as for this content, I think, we are debating, we are discussing a good, quality candidate who will receive my support in today's vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about this today, when the decision is already clear or we can confirm the proposal of the President of the State and appoint the first person as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, we are actually talking about our political culture. For when we spoke of a secretary without a ticket, he set some key points for his work. And that's when I said that this government was using it as a stage of its operation. How, then, can we today talk about respecting a tolerance? Today, when we are talking about the second proposal by the President of the State and when we are talking about the first proposal we have rejected in this National Assembly, of course, this tolerance was not to be seen. Suddenly, we were very impatient with the candidate who, with his expertise, his references and his vision, had been presented with a language that we had not used until then. How should we talk about the self-confidence of Slovenes and Slovenes, if very eminent people who are proposed for certain functions, in order to take over independent institutions in the Republic of Slovenia, we kill their independence, expertise, results of their work and expect when they fall behind each other due to political ambitions and political rather than professional arguments that in Slovenian society we can report that the expertise, references and independent work will not today be the criteria that will allow independent positions in independent institutions. So we are talking about a political culture that is different from what you want to show that they respect Slovenians and Slovenians, that they respect tolerance, that they should be self-confident, that they should be creative, because on specific occasions and today this concrete case is before us, of course, we are talking very differently. How is it possible to understand the language spoken on the one hand: the successful economic growth of Slovenia, the successful monetary policy of Slovenia, the successful social policy of Slovenia and, at the same time, the people who co-formed all these results do not count. How can we understand this difference in the messages we give to the Slovenes and to the Slovenes? That means if you succeed, but you won't be the one, of course we won't be tolerant of you and you don't have a chance of success. And when we talk about these personnel matters, we need to take into account and reflect on the overall recruitment event in all banking institutions. I can understand that it does not go into the dynamics of the non-election of the so-called true candidate for governor and that the events at the New Bank of Credit in Maribor, in the New Ljubljana Bank, of course with the new staffing changes are happening a little faster because of the fact that the central story has not yet happened here. In the next step, we are expected to privatise key banking institutions in Slovenia and whether it is necessary [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] close a circle to ensure that these decisions are made politically and not through an independent Bank of Slovenia assessment. [[...]] That is why, of course, I am expressing my own support for today's candidate and, of course, I do not want the relationship you wish to make between the President of the country and the President of the Government and the role of Parliament to break down on people for whom we can express our support with a peaceful conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. I must say that it is very interesting to observe the session now for two days because yesterday's event from the constitutional changes in the morning to this moment has one common point, and this is an extraordinary homogenisation of all that has its origin on the transition left. And this homogenization in sometimes so obvious nonsense that it's hard to stay serious. Just look at how much that thing, ours, yours, was saying today, wants to impose on the left-hand side a block division so that, of course, they can unify themselves, because they're all fighting each other. But listen, who is here is ours and who is yours. Two candidates applied for the governor's invitation, one was in the Robb's Strategic Council, the LDS round, the other was the LDS minister in the LDS government, so again from the LDS circle, and then who's here is ours, and that's what I'd really like to know. It's just a question of who's more professional, and who do we really think is better? Those who once cried out with a loud voice, not God and not the party president, today deny the fundamental constitutional right of Members and Members to decide in our conscience, as we are obliged by the Constitution to do in favour of the country of Slovenia as a whole. It is a matter of the relationship of institutions in fact, including the issue of political culture, if you want. For yesterday's events and today's here also have exactly the same characteristics from this point of view. This is a deliberate denial of the fundamental functions of Parliament and of the planned defamation of Parliament as a central democratic institution, this is nothing new, a negative attitude towards the parliamentary system, and to the fundamental democratic institutions was the criterion of left-wing of all 15 or little more than 15 years after the independence of the state of Slovenia. Why this is happening at the moment, but it is also clear - because of this invasion on the left, now everyone on the left is proving to each other in a row who is more radically left and therefore is true and who is more radically left on the other side and is more right to do so. Finally, all homogenes in obvious nonsense; that this is obvious nonsense, I have already said before, and let me repeat, both of those candidates who applied for the public tender are from the LDS. Of course, there's other things going on here. Today, a very old reflex from the past decades has actually come to light, for one of the discussers has even said so directly. For he has put into question the negative importance of asking parliamentary questions, which are, however, a fundamental democratic institution established in any country that is democratic by name and by reality, in the world. He questioned him as something negative. You mustn't ask, no, you must obey what the President of the State has told you. Please wait, we decide Members and Members after the constitution, and the President of the country is authorised by law. We respect that, but we will decide in our own conscience. Such a party reflex, forgive me if someone is an avant-garde and tells you how to do it, but then nothing is asked anymore and only obeys, and that goes somewhere in the past decades. Colleagues, good morning! Here we are now in a united Europe, we are equal members of the European Union, we have a democratic constitution, we have a democratic system, we have institutions that work. But where were you with these kind of statements about the crisis when, with the same motioner, the National Assembly in its previous composition rejected as many as three candidates for Governor of the National Bank in turn and then there was no talk about the institutional crisis, but even some then boasted that Drnovšek had received another "workout", as was said at the time. That was the whole address. You know, it's a matter of some fundamental responsibility, some credibility. It turned out that you were unworthy yesterday, when you didn't even vote for the things you signed when it came to immunity and the question of how you feel about institutions. And it's about whether people can actually recognize in this principle how things are going. But now that time is limited, I will save some things to explain the word. I hope you'll listen to me, it'll be very interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u52	Dear Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The issue, which is supposed to be routine in some way, has, of course, become mainly ethical, very complicated. Not because Mr Rant has appeared as a candidate, but because of all the words that we have heard here in Parliament today, there is likely to be some. I was increasingly interested in the causes and consequences, and less in what we usually call guilt and merit. In this space, we often listen to songs about economic growth, about how we are doing well, and since 1.1.2007 all are attributed only to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and this has, of course, been attributed mainly to the coordinated and exemplary cooperation of the government, the coalition, the Bank of Slovenia and its authorities. Thus, until 1.1. there were these Slovenian ideas, after 1.1. began to dry and completely turned into non-cooperation, disrespect, disrespect. The result of the previous idyllic co-existence was clearly Slovenia's entry into the European Monetary Union and earlier into the European Union, and now that this is no longer necessary, we have another song. This has been heard several times in this room, even today as a mantra, as a spell on the institution, on the current governor and vice-governor or candidate for governor. The matter then changed, so now we have come to the process, the process against the Quartet: Nučič, Rant, Gaspari, Drnovšek. It does not matter whether any of these people are a good expert or have contributed to where we are today in Slovenia, or whether or not there is the possibility that he will continue to cooperate; it is important that at this point the proposer has not properly proposed, in your opinion, his candidate and his former and current candidate. Because we can't do anything to the proposer, but let's just give these people a shot. Not in prison, as we've heard, is an option, but because they can be eliminated otherwise, socially, professionally. And this is the question of this Slovenia that we deny those common human customs, the values that we deny the ability to deny, in the final stage, the politeness, respect and dignity of the people we speak of. Indeed, we must debate in this House, we must talk, we must negotiate and finally we must make a decision, but we must not go across some lines of decent in this House, if this is wrapped in such a mundane word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Posedel has the floor. I'm sorry, Mr. Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Really, there's been a switch. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr President! In the event of a proposal by the President of the Republic for the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, Andrej Ranta has already been told almost everything or even everything. Not just in this room. Much of this has already been said in a failed attempt on the former candidate for governor, much has been said in the media. Some things are really interesting and what has puzzled me in all of this today is the horrendous and horrifying political pressure technology based on personal disqualifications, on personal individual potential candidates, the frightening political technology that provokes and publishes some documents whose exact origin is not usually known and which should prove something that ultimately turns out not to be proved at all. The terrible political technology that is also expressed in this House through exactly what one of the speakers spoke before me, through a question that has been so strongly defended by Parliament and the freedom of Members. What a question one was asked by the leader of the largest parliamentary group in this national parliament - no question sent! If there is any abuse of this institution, it is precisely this: premeditated, agreed. Anyone who can read, anyone who, in this policy for at least six months, will understand and recognize, a pre-arranged question that is supposed to offer pre-arranged answers and tighten the loop around a potential candidate for governor. We're not naive, because the public isn't naive either, and this exclusion policy, I would say, [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] If anyone else knows what this means, when a representative of the people asks and protestes against the authorities that something is wrong, not with this dramatic work, but with the candidate for governor in this case, and when the people answer when the leader answers, "It is indeed wrong." [[..]] That, I'd say, rocking and this way of working is really fragile and unacceptable. Gentlemen, I understand you, you have your political preferences, you don't want to have a candidate in this place, tell me, but don't accuse, don't insinuate, don't drag out things that don't matter. That is why you are attacking the President of the Republic, especially because he has taken his office seriously because he has taken the position of seriously to propose a candidate who will ensure that the bank will maintain that constitutional, legal and now, of course, because we are in a monetary union, European distance and independence to the government, that is all. No one in Andre Rant's work recognized anything wrong until he became a candidate for governor. I'm surprised this way of reasoning is unconvincing. Maybe only your most loyal supporters will accept him, and everyone else can't accept him. The President has this constitutional authority and has also taken advantage of this and has said that he intends to continue his business in such a way as to enable a candidate to be elected to meet these requirements. In this case, it is not just Andrej Rant, it is not just the governor, it is whether we can defend the legal autonomy and independence of the institutions necessary to ensure that this country is a normal country, that this society is a normal society, that there are normal political conflicts in this society and that there are personal, character and other characteristics in this society that do not bind and involve in political debate. Make it an end for you first, make it an end for me to be a more political culture in this space and also a wider one in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u55	Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u56	Thank you. As far as questions are concerned, for the first time, I didn't attack anyone. You can ask the press how many times I've refused to make statements about the president of the country lately, because I don't think everything that's going on is appropriate for the country's reputation abroad. Secondly, I asked questions about some of the events that are very important for the great circle of people in Slovenia, along with three other fellow Members about the behaviour of the Bank of Slovenia. It is also about things that have caused the poverty of entire families in Gorenjska, as well as in other parts of Slovenia, as stories with various banking transactions have taken place in many ways. And now I'm really wondering if you're afraid of responsibility. I don't wonder why you've done everything that has not changed your immunity - just to remain immune to crime, you never know when it's going to be right. How many others are there, such as that well-known representative of the Transitional Left, who has so abused immunity in the State Council. However, you must be aware that you carry this negative attitude towards the institutions of the country, which you express in this way, even sometimes unconstitutionally, deny, wherever you go, and if you team up, disunite, and all of this is already literally going under Murphy's laws, but I don't think that Murphy's law is going to go from bad to bad because some of you said that yesterday, but to that famous Murphy law, the law of the court and the consummation, which says that if you pour the best wine into the fertilizer, you get the fertilizer, but if you take the best wine and you take the fertilizer, you get, unfortunately, again, the fertilizer. But I would have liked to have once on the left of one credible interlocutor, and Slovenia certainly deserves this.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! So we asked Members some questions concerning Banka Slovenije, we did not send them questions to Banka Slovenije, that is to say, but from Banka Slovenije we were informed by the media that the issues are very unusual because they would assume that Members know the laws that we are adopting, so said the Deputy Governor, and also; old, the new Banking Act accurately defines who Banka Slovenije is obliged to report and what to report. And it also says that Members are not the ones who might get such answers. Of course, such a way of speaking is arrogant, arrogant, I will say, offensive and just contemptible to us Members, and I wonder whether the institution of Parliament, of course we representatives, deserves such a relationship from another institution of the country. I don't think so. A little more respectable, I don't know, could be expressed to the institution of Parliament. In addition, it was also said by the Bank of Slovenia that in these 13 questions to which the Bank's world today has accepted the answers, it was written, according to Nučič's statements, a number of inaccuracies. The NLB did not have a branch in New York, but rather a subsidiary of LBS, which was a separate legal entity. Then you ask yourself, ‘ What is a single legal person, and what if it is a daughter? ’ If it's a daughter's, according to the farmer, it means that her mother controls her, she's responsible and she's responsible, and she has to supervise her. Of course, it also answers in her name, but of course the owner is responsible. And, ladies and gentlemen, that there was something wrong with this answer and that someone is making fun of us, is seen from the letter, and these are the documents that have now been published in the media, that the Bank of Slovenia has written to its daughter, who is so independent and must not be supervised; I inform you that the expert members of the Bank of Slovenia have carried out a review of the operation of the company in Frankfurt, which is 100% owned by their daughter. During the review, it was found that the company provides services which constitute direct competition to services provided by banks on the Slovenian banking market, including Nova Ljubljanska Banka, which is 56% of the owner of RHB. What is she now, independent or what? The Bank of Slovenia expects the LHB Frankfurt Supervisory Board to consider the proposal to terminate the company or to terminate its banking activity or to transform the company into a branch. That's what they say. They did business in one way or another, but they can control them, and that's evidence. And let me remind you of something else. In view of the fact that it has been said that Parliament or Members are not the ones who could obtain any information because the real article on banking is different. Let me read article 26 of the Law on Banka Slovenije, which says: "No matter what other laws of Banka Slovenije report my work exclusively to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Banka Slovenije reports on its work at least half a year." They never did this, but they did the annual reports, and they were bragging about giving annual reports, but they should do it twice a year. And exclusively to the National Assembly. That's what they say. We are, and we have the right to get information. If this is the case, then the Bank of Slovenia Act should be amended; if it has the right to exclude other laws, then something is wrong with this law. I'm not getting into this, but something's wrong. Someone has to, one of these laws has to be changed or several laws changed. Last but not least, we have been able to read about the Bank of Slovenia in the media recently such addresses as the comprehensive one, on the two sides of the "Parliamentary Break of Inflation" and it says here that "Andrej Rant, candidate of the President of the State for the Governor of the Central Bank as a member of the Board of the Bank, is one of the main culprits for high inflation prior to the fixing of the course". That is to say, we have tried to get that course as we should, 2.4% of inflation, and the Bank of Slovenia is expected to increase inflation through its actions. That's what it says. I didn't make anything up. I'm just reading it to you. And if he's such an expert, why hasn't he checked in? Really, let the experts sign up. Will there now be a completely different system? In addition, if Banka Slovenije did so, what about the reputation of the bank in Slovenia when you speak so much about Banka Slovenije? It bothers me a little bit, and I'm worried. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] If abroad is so important. [[...]] But I would say that all of this bothers me - we are now saying what Europe will say, given our institutions - reminds me of the times when we said, yes, what Belgrade will say. Ladies and gentlemen, there is little too much of this. We must take care of our reputation for ourselves first [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u59	Thank you. The following are not on the list in the Chamber, so I give the floor to the representative of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! My address to this interesting conversation would be content and procedures. As far as the content is concerned, it's not up to me to judge her, but I'd say two things. First of all, a large group of Members took up extensive discussions on the entire Bank of Slovenia on the proposal for a candidate for governor. For a moment, I didn't know whether he was candidate Andrei Rant, or still Gaspari, or Mr Nučič, or anyone. My conclusion from this debate is that surely none of the 400 employees in Banka Slovenije have any chance of being a good candidate, current or future. The other thing that comes from this debate on the substantive side is that some have understood and respected the candidacy of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, asked about the candidate, his expertise, how he sees the future role of the Bank of Slovenia, how he places himself in the European space, and they are thanked on behalf of the proposer. As for the procedure, however, it seems necessary to put the matter in the right place. It sounded like "the appropriateness of the procedure". Suitability is a personal assessment of each of us. I think we should ask ourselves in this legislative body whether the procedure led by the President of the Republic of Slovenia is legal or not. So whether he acted in harmony with all those laws that were passed in the National Assembly. The answer is almost yes. The first "yes" is the part about how to get a candidate. Is it necessary to search for candidates only within those who have applied for the invitation or not? The answer is no. That's what he did. Once by selecting the candidate who applied for the invitation to tender and the second by appointing him of his choice. It's both legal. Another time. Is he obliged to consult with the parliamentary groups or not? The answer is no again. So the President acted legally and legitimately. In the debate, I was disturbed by some strong words that some of you attributed to the President's actions. Like arrogance, arguing, so to speak, a threat to Parliament. All those presidents of the parliamentary groups who wanted to talk to the President and who also did so, if they speak in truth, will probably say that there was no arrogance. The president explained and reasoned on his proposals and also explained why his previous discussions with the parliamentary groups did not seem the best way for him to be confirmed by the National Assembly. As for the threat or what a Member has called three times: 'God forbid that Parliament does not approve the President's proposal'. So, reality proves otherwise. The President has always expressed hope or belief that the National Assembly will confirm his candidate. And when he wasn't there, nothing bad happened, the president just said he regretted that the National Assembly didn't appoint a candidate. So God is merciful if I use the same term. The word "controversy" was also mentioned with the President of the Government. I would like to say that the President of the State does not argue with the President of the Government, but when we talk about a candidate for governor, he consults with him. He consulted with the first candidate. And since he was acceptable at the time, he suggested it. However, he did not propose a candidate who was immediately unacceptable to the President of the Government. But today we're talking about Andre Rant, and I'm inviting Members and Members of Parliament to trust him with your voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u61	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to the vote. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 37 of the Law on the Bank of Slovenia on the appointment of the National Assembly, the Council shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for members of the committee to run the vote. These are: Franc Jazbec, Rudolf Moge, Bojan Kontic and Martin Mikolič. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? Nobody. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the Commission. We're voting. I can briefly assess that there are, however, more than 46 Members and Members in the Chamber, so I would like to ask your attention. Secondly, we turn to the vote on the proposed electoral commission. We're voting. We're inconclusive again, so I'm adjourning the session. We will proceed with the third vote at 12.40.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u62	I ask the Members and Members to take their seats and calm down. This is the third time we are going to the vote. Please pay attention and see if the voting devices work. We vote on the proposed electoral commission. There are 72 Members and Members present. It's 67 votes against no one. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the electoral commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by the word "ZA" or "PROTI" on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Members or Members is not clearly visible. In accordance with Article 37, paragraph 5, of the Bank of Slovenia Act, the proposed candidate will be appointed if the majority of all Members and Members vote for him, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the hall, in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed ballot in the voting box, which will be in the Chamber, at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 12.50 p.m. and will last until 13.00 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 13.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the consideration of the cut 20a point - this is the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Note on the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 9 March 2007. 73 ballots were distributed, 73 votes were cast, one vote was invalid, 72 votes valid, 34 votes in favour, 38 votes against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 38.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mr Andrej Rant was not appointed Governor of the Bank of Slovenia by a majority of the votes cast. Since the candidate has not received a sufficient number of votes from Members and Members, I will immediately inform the President of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 37(6) of the Bank of Slovenia Act. I ask the vice president, Mr. Klavora, to take the lead.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u64	We are moving on to a hearing on the proposals for decisions on election to a judicial function. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly seven proposals for the election of candidates and candidates for judicial office in the courts, namely two senior judges and a senior judge at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia, a district judge at the District Court in Ljubljana and two district judges, and a district judge at the District Court in Ptuj and Piran. Does the representative of the Council of Justice, or Mrs. Završkov, secretary of state want a word? No, no, no. The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. Members and Members, if they check the voting devices, please. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Adriana Hribar Milič to the judicial seat of the higher court in the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Bojana Prezelj Trampuž, to the judicial seat of the higher court in the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There were 48 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. For 44. No one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The decision was adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Damjan Gantar to the Supreme Court of Justice at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There were 47 votes in favour and 47 votes in favour. For 46. No one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Zorica Gogal to the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. 49 Members and Members voted. For 46. No one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mr Zdravka Limovška to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ptuj. We're voting. 49 Members and Members voted. For 46. No one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Tina Benčič to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Piran. We're voting. 49 Members and Members voted. For 43. No one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Stanka Poredos to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Piran. We're voting. 49 Members and Members voted. For 44. No one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the conclusion on the termination of the mandate of the three members of the Radio Television Programme Board of Slovenia, established in 2006. The findings were submitted to the meeting by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Anybody want a word? There are no debaters. I'm closing the debate. We take note of the following conclusion: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that Dr. Vladimir Miheljak has terminated his mandate as a member of the Radio Television Programme Council of Slovenia, appointed under the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, as a result of his resignation, and that Mrs. Sméměka Hribar and Mrs. Tanja Lesčar Pučko have terminated her term in the function of members appointed under the seventh indent of Article 27 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. The term of office for these functions shall cease from the date on which the assembly is informed of this finding." We are moving on to the consideration of the proposals for decisions on the appointment of members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Eva Irgl has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u65	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia provides for the termination of the term of office of a member of the programme board who resigns. We will therefore vote today on the new members of the Programme Council from the proposals of civil society and the public, which we will support in the SDS Group of Members. In December 2006 and January 2007, three members from the RTV Slovenia Programme Council came out of Slovenia, which was hampered by the performance by Member Zmija Jelinčič of the Pyramid show. A derogation which is fully legitimate but raises the question of how it was actually justified. The opinions of such eminent experts, who are familiar with the media space, which will be replaced today in the programming world by new faces on a proposal from civil society and the public, are certainly not to be ignored, even more. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are convinced that it must be dealt with with with with with all due care and responsibility, but when the resignations take place for professionally justified, valid reasons, not for politically motivated things, as in this case. In fact, it seems that some have been consciously desirous of the events in Pyramid, that Pyramid was actually just a good time to get out of the RTV Programme Council and such a successful way of discrediting the leadership of RTV Slovenia and, above all, the programme world. People are chosen to save and talk about things in the programming world, not to give up when something happens that is not very proud of us. At such times, responsible conduct is expected of these people, not to get away from the problem. Viewers and viewers of RTV Slovenia have the right to be represented in the programming world by people who do not resign just to exacerbate the media war between political options. Thank God the new RTV Slovenia law has begun to regulate the area in a way that enables diversity, diversity and plurality of programming content. The fact is that, like the audience that monitors radio and television programmes, it is diverse, composed of different profiles, opinions, different tastes, so the RTV Slovenia programming board must be composed of different profiles of people, knowledge and experience. We could say that the RTV programming board is kind of an audience in small and it's the same. According to the previous law on RTV Slovenia, which, by the way, was unconstitutional in some parts, people or viewers had no sense of cooperation and at least at the symbolic level of co-forming programming content. Previously, there was a conductive model of proposal, which allowed only part of the public to propose candidates for the Programme Council. Today, the law actually allows the public, civil society, various organisations and forums to propose candidates for the Programme Council at their own discretion. This is the only way to ensure the plurality of opinions and the diversity of programming content. We will therefore choose between the proposals of civil society and the public two well-established and distinguished candidates of the various candidates, who are also certainly forward-looking plural. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are confident that the confirmation of both candidates will allow the plurality and openness of public broadcasting, which has already been achieved by the adoption of the new RTV Slovenia Act. We will support the proposed candidate in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u67	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! The appointment of new members of the RTV Programme Council is a result of derogations and derogations are never linked to an event, but usually to an event. Obviously, the people working in the programming world could not agree with the prevailing opinion and with the policy of today. Well, as a result, it is clear that Mr Marjan Trpin and Mr Jurij Paljk have proposed to the Mandate-Electorial Commission in the election of the 16 candidates who responded to the call for members of the RTV Council. First on the proposal of the World Slovenian Congress, second on the proposal of the Forum for Goriška, Association for the Rebirth of Goriška. In the first appointment of members and members of the RTV Programme Council, we have taken into account very many criteria when we proposed this, namely territorial coverage, sexual representation, etc. This time, both candidates on the working body were elected even without discussion. Of course, first of all, the fact that both of them are Primors, it is said, we have so much territorial representation, both of them have dual citizenship, in addition to Slovenian, also Italian. Both are also characterised by living in Italy. I think and in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we think that, of course, this is certainly not good given that all the other members have been chosen on the basis of firm criteria that, when proposed, it has not been calculated there and that it has indeed looked closely at all the criteria set out in Article 17, paragraph 6, of the RTV Act. During the adoption of the RTV Act in the Liberal Democracy Club, Slovenia was reminded of the shortcomings and weaknesses of these articles, which talk about how members and members of the Programme Council were appointed; you know that there was actually the widest debate. Now it has been shown that this newly established world, the complemented world, will be even more homogeneous and uniform, because it certainly is not good for the institution, which is called public and dedicated to all Slovenes and Slovenes. The current members have stepped down because of the inability to work constructively in a public institution and, given the new selection of two new members, it will obviously be much easier to manipulate, much easier to work, much easier to set such programming points that lead to the kind of programme that we have today; it is said that it is increasingly less and less copyrighted, which is increasingly linked to various licensing contracts. Much less, of course, is meant for what many here also swear - to Slovenia, but puts things there at the beginning of the 20th century or even further back. If there were no ecclesiastical infringements, the Law would have been laid down, the Mandate-Volution Commission would have accepted the third member without any delay at the request of the political parties and again elected an Italian-Slovenian citizen, who, by the way, was not proposed by the political party at all. The result of this complication is a renewed call to political parties to propose candidates for the programme council, which of course only means an extension of the period in which the programme council will act in a less credible, credible way and in the detriment of television, which, however, is intended to be intended for all Slovenian public. I hope that from what I have said, it is clear that we do not agree with any of the proposals for a member of the Slovenian Radio Television Programme Board and we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Janez Drobnič on behalf of the NSI Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u69	Dear Members and Members! In fact, public television is a reflection of reality, i.e. the situation in society, is like a laxum or a mirror in which we identify ourselves or turn away because we do not want to know the truth: whether we are witnessing the release of the creativity of people, that is, journalists, or mental sealing, of political conductivity. What do our public television, through which we have so much to say, and we are also its creators and see each other in it? Will it link us, unite us, cheer us up, or will it become another factor in further vaccination? It is probably not new to find that we have been constantly witnessing the effort, the obvious or the disguised, who is going to put the pups on this public horse and maybe add some more coats to it. So who will subjugate the media and also then enforce their public, read the political domination and enforce "my". It is time to ensure freedom of journalistic creation, not verbally, in fact. We'll all get the most out of this. But only one message to journalists is that credibility and truth should be directed by public broadcasters. We propose two new members to serve as the Programme Council of this public institution. Therefore, let them exercise on the one hand the supervisory function of management in order to establish a responsible business capable that has so far not been exactly the virtue of the leaders so far and, on the other hand, the RTV programme that will be worth our attention. Is it necessary, therefore, that we continue to inoculate the partitioning of parties, tribes, possessions, mental spaces? No! No! Because there are more and more people who are becoming foreigners in these parts of the rift. Many do not belong in any such dwelling. Their land is in the midst of a human family that has narrowed down, but it is the one that shows the way of the future. The Council is already split up in one way or another so that it does not need to continue to be vaccinated. Let's stop putting on the raincoats. This is done by those who have their own cloaks that protect their eyes to see little. The New Slovenia Group will support both candidates.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca has the floor on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u71	Your Honor! Four and not three members of the programming board have resigned. In addition to Mr Miheljak, Mrs Lesnik Pučko and the Memorial of Hribar, also a representative of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art. Four members of the Programme Council, distinguished, competent, constructive and critical, said they had enough. They weren't on the "plonk leaf" with which the coalition then helped to remember the names of those who were by her own, your own measure. I'm sorry they left. They obviously left to protect their personal dignity. The derogation, as followed by the reports, was driven by powerlessness, ignorance, confusion in the operation and management of the RTV Programme Council, and above all by opposition to such editorial policy, where the expression of intolerance is admissible. I am sorry, because if we stayed, I am sure that we would raise the question loudly, whether it is right that public television is increasingly commercializing, that it cares mainly for the cheery, less for the cultural program, let us say that Mrs. Hribareva or Plesnikova would remain cold in understanding women's role in public life as well as the forms and ornaments of men as we listened to yesterday, and I doubt that Mr Miheljak would, for example, find it appropriate to minimize the issue of deleted, or Mrs Hribareva, already farsically, unilaterally and recognizably selected information program, as well as the accumulation of licensive broadcasts on behalf of those who give television status to the public television. This time, the coalition did not need a "plonk ticket", it elected two who would complete or almost complete the ideological compatibility of the current world and thus the mission of taking over RTV will be completed. Let's take a look at the two candidates who received the support of the committee. It is a person of dual nationality or a member of permanent residence in Italy, which is not problematic. This is a person, Mr Marjan Trpin, proposed for a four-year term, is a candidate for the Slovenian World Congress, is Vice-President of the Slovenian World Congress and Vice-President of the Conference for Italy. He was, as indicated in the application or in the nomination, the Secretary of the Slovenian Community Party and the President of the country. Of course, I should point out here some of the writings that I saw in Sunday, which is in the church paper of the karst archdiocese, which comments on the outcome of the vote of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission by saying that, as said, two were elected: Mr Marjan Trpin and Mr Jurij Paljk, saying that the President of the Slovenian World Congress and Policies has also been elected Marjan Terpin. We should really get an answer to what this interpretation of politics means. And maybe I just want to make sure that we know that in today's debate. The second candidate is Mr Jurij Paljk, proposed for a two-year term, is a writer, regular writer of the weekly Family, editor of the Catholic weekly Novi Vos, whose publisher is the Goriška Mohorjeva Society and member of the United Periodical Press in Italy, member of the Union of Catholic Weeks in Italy and editor of the Church List of the Church of the Church of the Church of Sunday. In this letter he also appeared several times, and Mr Jurij Paljk also had very crystallized views when adopting the RTV Slovenia Act, or at the referendum by commenting in the New Voice, allow me to quote this: "Well, at the referendum on the new RTV law in Slovenia, it happened that all the elites of the "advanced" - in the quotations - who had forgotten just before the referendum, what laymen were until recently..." and so on; in short, it was a clear position to accept the referendum, confirmation. In short, it would make sense to clarify the question of what political function, for example, Mr Marjan Trpin, or that the doubts I have in my own political function, which we know that the law does not allow, would be clarified. However, we will not support these two candidates in the new parliamentary group. Not only is it because, as I said, the mission would end up taking on a sufficiently one-sided composition of the programme board, but there is still one left who would almost be voted on by the Commission on the terms of reference if the President of the Commission were not to deal with the procedure itself, which showed that he was not correct. In short, we will not support the candidate mentioned, because, on the contrary, with the opinions expressed so far, we do not think that he will represent the plurality of the world itself; I am not just talking about the geographical to which we could hang ourselves, but especially I do not see in such candidates with such an résumé or résumé and references a sufficient guarantee of the functioning of the world itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u72	Thank you very much. We are done with the views of the parliamentary groups. Mrs Shirca, you're on the table and it's your turn. Would you like to discuss it?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u73	At the outset, I would like to get the first answer I have put forward in the presentation of the parliamentary group: Is the possible political code of action of Mr Turpin, as I have seen in the media, a possible obstacle to appointment under the law that limits certain political activities within this world? Now, it is indeed a debate, but if at least the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission spoke, the debate would continue later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Schkloch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Today we have witnessed the uplifted speech that we too are co-creators of radio, television programs. I must say that I am distant from this and that I am protesting against such claims. That's what I believe is possible for someone, but it's definitely wrong and contrary to the RTV Act. The second thing I would like to say and it is very important that we vote today on two rather than three RTV saints should be three. Why don't we vote on three? This is a special story that confirms us that the coalition's vote is based primarily on the desire to fully rule the world of RTV. Otherwise, it could not have been that he was not proposed to the National Assembly for appointment as a third councillor on the proposal of parliamentary political parties. This gap speaks more than these two proposals. I would not speak of these two people alone, because in a way I appreciate their involvement in Slovenia within the Republic of Italy and within minorities. But when we talk about world-viewed balance and other things, the debate and question is still in place. That is why, my fellow Members, I would remind you that the Mandate-Electorial Commission has had the largest proposal available, or, if you wish, still the largest parliamentary opposition party to appoint to the place it belongs to and has rejected it in its conscience with legitimate means, as it is often said, black and illegal. And this is the truth of this appointment that you want to control RTV in its entirety and that Mr Grandi was clearly in the way of those couples of saints, the saints who were asking a question that you do not want to talk about in Parliament and obviously should not be discussed in the Council of RTV. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Sayovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Too bad this story, which had a bright and good promise of a better program and, above all, a cheaper position, did not become a "meat". In order for political unity and unilaterality to continue, these concessions also bear witness. I guess the Slovenians, the Slovenes and the viewers, the reasons and the shows for which the resignation took place were not an honour, so the reasons and content are not to be repeated, but I would like to draw attention to what we made when we adopted the law, we promised through the political parties that we would defend some democracy and some political bonton and hygiene in spite of everything, and I am sorry that we are not talking about three candidates today, but about two. The third candidate will, of course, be the product, well cooked, from the client and political cuisine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr. Rudolf Moge. You're giving up. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we choose two new members of the Programme Council to complete the cities of those who have resigned. In fact, I would be surprised to read that if I summed up the statements made by one of the candidates that, because she could no longer decisively influence the decisions of the Programme Council, she would not give legitimacy to such a programming council. I wonder how some individuals in the past programming world have endured when conditions were significantly worse, significantly less pluralism. And that's actually some manners, if it's not all our way, then we'll scream. Then we yell, then it's all wrong. For this reason, I think that today's candidates are candidates and will also contribute to the plurality of the Programme Council and the decision of the Programme Council. In fact, I cannot agree that the candidate, for example, the Forum for Goriška, guarantees unanimity. Does a colleague from Primorska know the Forum for Goriška? At least I don't think these organizations in your programming positions should be judging in this way. And second, which is why I'm very much in favour of electing these two candidates. The chairman and I attended the 70th anniversary of the violent death of Loizet Bratož 14 days or three weeks ago, who was killed or tortured by fascism and eventually died. And at this extremely well-occupied event, which fell at a time when, on the other hand, very unilateral words of war violence fell from the President of the Italian Republic's mouth, because it was forgotten about the sofascist violence, at this celebration, as the chairman will confirm, I did not notice the camera of national television. And here the eccentric fact of this speech at the Italian festival was also repeatedly pointed out by the Nestor of Slovenian writers Boris Pahor in an excellent speech. And look, because of this, although there has been a lot of movement in the last two years in the formation of television, I am in favour of such acquaintances of the minority and Slovenian situation in Primorsk, west of our border, coming to the programming world. These are actually people who have engaged in a vocabulary that breathes for the vocabulary and who have patriotism in the genes, not ideology. And for this reason, I would ask you to change these unilateral convictions, accusations and speeches to end this one-sided ideological image of the programming world. I think that a rather one-minded ideological image of the programming world should be discussed in the past, but now I think we are on the right track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor. You're giving up. Mr. Mag. Branko Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. My discussion will mainly be a replica of a story that I have been listening to for a year and a half, and it has just reappeared in this Chamber. A story about RTV Slovenia's subscription. Those of you who know the story, you know that when it was a campaign, I said several times that it would actually go down. I also explained why, in very detail, what the mechanism was like before and after. The one that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u82	Mr Grims [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u83	I'm just responding to something that's already been mentioned here.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u84	I don't think we're talking about a subscription today. I think we're talking about two candidates.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u85	You allowed the debate to begin. Please allow me an explanation, because it will be extremely interesting. In fact, my colleague, those of you with the RTV connection, you know very well that there was already a proposal in the drawer for a 10% increase that was not hoped to be given because a referendum was proposed. As the referendum was obtained, it could no longer be proposed physically, and a year later the subscription was actually frozen and decreased according to 2% inflation. And with this, the promises have already been fully fulfilled. But what's most interesting, what no one wanted to say, because no one wants to hear it and as far as I know it hasn't been published yet, is that from the new year, a colleague and a colleague, an absolutely lower RTV subscription is paid than it was before. If you recalculate the tolar back subscription as is paid now in euros, you will see that the TV contribution is lower by 96 tolar hundreds and for the radio for 17 tolar hundreds, which is also [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u86	Mr. Grimes, please, if you'll stop the subscription!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u87	the debate, at least first ask yourself what the facts are. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I must tell you that the debate on this was not on the programme today. And please, secondly, we are discussing a rather serious matter concerning two candidates for the RTV Ljubljana Program Council. I conclude the debate and move on to the decision on the proposed decisions. I shall put to the vote the motion for a decision appointing Mr Juri Palk as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia for the period until the expiry of the two-year mandate of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, which was established in 2006. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Check-in is on. Mr. Battelli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will abstain in this vote. Not because of the candidates, but because of the way this process was conducted. As regards the Supervisory Board, the procedure for electing members of the Supervisory Board under the applicable law on RTV is exactly the same as in the case of the election of members of the Council of RTV. First of all. At that time, a member of the Supervisory Board was elected, as proposed by our parliamentary group. In this case, I, like all the other parliamentary groups, have normally received the documentation received by each parliamentary group when it nominates its representatives. This means that to a certain point it was considered that the concept of parties and groups of Members could be equated and, at a certain point, at the election of Dr Lucian Monika, whose dignity and expertise I here declare and defend, in which case this procedure was interpreted differently, with the result we know. Our arrangement foresees that it has not happened, but it does foresee that candidates for MEPs can take part in the elections on the basis of signatures and are not party. This means that this logic introduces a distinction between Members who are identical under the Constitution. It's a strange precedent, in my opinion. Because it was so watered, and because there are some known scary things happening here around dual citizenship, around also the Italian fascism, which, of course, killed. But also Slovenian communism killed some Italian anti-fascist. But this happened by mistake, or how? Because of this atmosphere, which governs these issues, when it comes to people living border and borderline, and if you also want a multicultural destiny, the use of double criteria around this does not convince me, it does not convince me how to say, in a clear view of things in this room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u90	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 15. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. To vote, I propose a decision appointing Mr Marjan Terpin as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act for the period until the end of the four-year term of office of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, which was established in 2006. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 13. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision amending the decision appointing members of the Board of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. In the debate, I give the word "magic." Janez Petty Officer. [[He's quitting.]] There are no other panellists. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision appointing members of the Board of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a member and a deputy member of the Public Sector Wage System Council. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing a member and a deputy member of the Public Sector Wage System Council. We're voting. There were 56 votes in favour and 56 votes in favour. For 52. No one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to SUPPORT 6. Agenda items, this is on the third defence proposal of the Amendments Act and the Complementation of the Inspection Supervisory Act. On Wednesday, 7 March 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the bill-maker, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. Since, after the third reading of the draft law due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home labour body, the law was not harmonised, the Government prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 23, which you received at the bench. Does the representative of the Government want to speak about this harmonisation amendment? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members. The amendment to Article 23, which was adopted on the home working body, supplemented the first paragraph of Article 38 by the reference to'self-employed individual' or 'individually acting as perpetrators of offences'. The responsibility of individual independent entrepreneurs is already provided for in Article 38, paragraph 3, in force, and, of course, we have been given a double sanction as a form of fine for the category mentioned. That is why we have tabled an explanatory amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Do the Members and Members, on behalf of the groups of Members, also want to speak about this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 23. We're voting. There were 58 votes in favour and 58 votes in favour. For 45. Against three. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 43 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the law on corporate financial transactions, following a reduced procedure. In the context of the third reading, we are moving to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Mr. Tanko, you want a procedural question? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I propose that this amendment, which has been tabled, in agreement with the other co-proposers, should be amended to read as follows: "Workers who have ceased their employment prior to the removal of the company under the Financial Business Act, Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, 54/99, 110/99 and 93/02 - Constitutional Court decision shall be subject to their claims from the employment relationship to the deleted company and its associates recognised by a legal decision to be paid in the burden and under the terms of the Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia". If this is necessary in writing, I propose that a period be set for this amendment to be re- tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u94	Dear Members and Members! Mr Tanko has also explained and made a procedural proposal to correct this amendment to Article 4. This is about adding "and under the terms of the Public Guarantee..." and so on, it writes it. Do you want this to be written down to order a break to sign it and get the corrected text on the table, or is what I read to you enough? I'm taking 15 minutes off. The meeting resumed at 2:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u95	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. Mr. Tanko, do you have a procedural question? Please. It's a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that this correction has aroused some discomfort in the parliamentary groups, I propose that we take a decision on the amendment and on the law at the next meeting in 14 days.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard the proposal made by Mr Tank that the decision on the amendment and the law be fully transferred to the next regular meeting. I would like to ask if the representatives of the groups of Members can agree on this if they so wish. Then I will put the proposal to the vote. Check-in is on. Mr. Magg has the word. Gnyardsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Our Group supports such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath. Here you go. On behalf of the NSI Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We support a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Jožef Školč, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Thank you very much. We, too, support this proposal because it is clearly knowledge and conscience, which dictates always timely and flawless decisions, already on deserved rest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-09-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u102	I am putting a procedural proposal to the vote. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, all of whom voted in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item and conclude the 25th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
