ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I begin by continuing the meeting and inform you that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Anton Anderlič, Mr Aurelio Juri by 13 p.m., Mr Drago Koren by 18 p.m. and Dr Marko Pavliha. We're moving to four. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the law on legal examination. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Marolt, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The following are the main reasons for the adoption of the Amendments and Supplements Act. Firstly, aligning the condition of professional competence with the new professional titles obtained under the so-called Bologna Study Programmes. Secondly, shortening the long waiting periods for entry into the courtroom. The following solutions are proposed. With regard to the need to harmonise the condition of professional competence, we believe that the current professional title is comparable to the professional title of the Master of Law. This will be obtained after the completion of the second stage of a five-year Bologna Law Study, either in a two-step legal study or in a five-year single master's study. This bill does not limit university-graduate lawyers to their approach to traineeships. In view of the specific nature of the work carried out under the functions and professions only on the basis of the legal examination carried out, it is also necessary to establish a single framework of fundamental legal skills to be acquired through the Bologna study programmes, which will meet the needs for further training and the work of the judiciary. However, the following measures are proposed to shorten the very long waiting periods for admission to the judiciary. As a first measure, it is proposed to shorten the judicial traineeship from 12 months in force to 8 months. The four-month training in the Economic or Labour Court, which is already provided for in the law in force, is deleted. However, the overall training period during the training course remains unchanged and remains constant for a total of two years or 24 months. In this way, it wishes to have as little impact on the quality of training at the expense of shortening judicial traineeships, which, because it is mandatory for all candidates, represents, unfortunately, a narrow throat and unfortunately contributes significantly to the extension of waiting periods. Another time. We believe that a judicial trainee can gain appropriate practical experience in criminal law as well as in the courts, including through training in the State Prosecutor's Offices. We must be aware that it is just within the criminal court that it is difficult to provide mentoring to judicial trainees, as the total number of criminal judges is far from the smallest in the courts. Therefore, the bill allows trainees to be trained alternatively or individually or in part in the criminal field in the State Prosecutor's Offices. And most importantly, because of the long waiting periods, many candidates, even before they are able to conduct judicial training, are hired and begin to gain practical experience outside the judiciary. As a result, some candidates have gained so much practical experience in legal works outside the judiciary that they are subject to judicial traineeships only as a formal condition required for access to the examination. It is therefore proposed, by means of a supplementary proposal, that the candidate be able to directly join the legal examination after 32 months of working practice at: the Judicial Council, the Court, the State Prosecutor's Office, the State Attorney's Office, the Lawyer, the Notary or the Ministry of Justice, or 48 months' working practice at: the Constitutional Court, the Legislative Authority, the State Administration, the Community Office, the Faculty of Law, the High School of Law or the Legal Person. In order to protect the benefit of members of indigenous national communities in the Republic of Slovenia and to ensure the enforcement of the provisions of Article 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in conjunction with Article 64 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, this proposal makes it possible to carry out judicial training for trainees who speak Italian or Hungarian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u3	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask Vice-President Sreček Hvauc to present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At its 38th meeting, on 8.11.2007, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial State Examination, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the proposal for a law, a general discussion was held at the 31st meeting of the National Assembly on 27.9.2007, at which it was decided that the draft law was suitable for further consideration. In the introduction, the representative of the proposer submitted an additional supplementary explanation and presented the main solutions and the purpose of the law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that their written comments were taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. A representative of the Council of Justice also took part in the meeting, which said that the Council of Justice supported the proposal of the law by allowing a greater number of candidates to take part in the legal examination. In the event that they do not meet the formal conditions, a legal examination shall be carried out. In its proposal, the NGO Legal Information Centre proposed certain solutions to cover the costs of the examination. The opinion of the Pomour-Hungary Self-Government Community was that transitional provisions should provide that the Minister of Justice should, within 30 days of the adoption of this Act, specify the number of training places for trainees who speak Italian or Hungarian, which has been duly taken into account by the amendment adopted to Article 25. He also gave his written opinion to the draft law, which was presented at the meeting by their representative, the Council of State. He said that the State Council supports the proposal of the law and that certain comments are made to Articles 4, 6, 9, 13, 18, 21 and 27. The draft law was also given its written opinion by the Commission for the National Community, which concludes that the Commission welcomes the Ministry of Justice's move to add in article 25 of the bill a provision which means protection for the benefit of members of indigenous national communities in the Republic of Slovenia. However, they also expressed a certain degree of fear, which is linked to individual cases of non-implementation of legislation relating to the indigenous national community, which is probably also due to a lack of staff to manage minority language to a sufficient extent. Members or members of the committee concerned were also discussed, in particular, how much will the gap between the envisaged posts for judicial traineeships be reduced by the conclusion of the judicial working relationship and the number of candidates applied for in those posts. Although the solutions in the law have supported, especially those for shortening judicial traineeships, it is hoped that this will not result in any damage to legal knowledge. The amendment was tabled by the coalition SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. The Committee adopted the amendments of SD, NSI and SLS to Articles 1, 6, 7, 8, 9, 21, 22, 25 and 27 but did not adopt the amendments of the DeSUS Group to Articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 13, 14, 18 and 20. An integral part of this report is a supplementary draft law prepared by the Committee by including the amendments adopted in the draft law for the second reading. Thank you for your word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u5	Thank you. Since the assembly held its first reading of the draft law at the 31st meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 19.11.2007. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 18 and the amendment of the Social Democrats to this Article. Check-in is on. Mrs. Zupan, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nicely greeted! Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! In the New Slovenia Group, we do not oppose the amendment tabled by the Social Democrats Group. This amendment extends the range of entities to Article 18, in addition to the Council of Justice, the Court of Justice, the State Prosecutor's Office, the Attorney General's Office, the Notary, the Ministry of Justice, adds the person who performs the activity of free legal assistance with the consent of the Minister responsible for justice. These are persons who, in accordance with the legislation, implement the first legal advice and free legal advice and are in practice organised as institutions. We believe that this proposal can also lead to improvements in the reduction of waiting periods for admission to the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr. Potts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u8	Thank you very much. We have already said on the home work body, when we have considered the proposal for a law, that it is right that the Ministry has attempted to solve the issue of judicial traineeships more quickly, which is now very problematic and has also given us information on how many, especially in the Ljubljana court, are waiting in a number of traineeships and cannot carry out traineeships, and then do no state legal examination. That is why we have ourselves looked for the possibility or to extend the circle, which would allow not only a large number but, despite any of the lawyers who have graduated or the Law Masters to be able to take into account the fact that they are more easily carrying out the internship and approach to the State's legal exam. And we considered that this could be the case for persons who are engaged in a free legal aid activity in civil society organisations or institutions in particular, which we stress is possible for those who are given the Ministry's consent to be able to carry out such a business. That there is an employed graduate lawyer with an appropriate national legal exam, in short, that he can give advice on free legal aid and may probably have an employee also a graduate lawyer or a Master of Law who is trained in two and a half years, I think 32 months, so much so that he can join the exam. We do not think that our proposal is essential, but it nevertheless slightly extends these possibilities, that it is fully in line with the concept of the law and that we expect its support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u9	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda or at the latest at 18.20. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to move on to 5. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE WITNESSES PROTECTION LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Marolt, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Once again, honourable Members! The Witness Protection Act lays down the conditions, procedures and authorities responsible for the protection of witnesses and other persons at risk of cooperation or testimony in criminal proceedings. In accordance with the provisions of the second paragraph of Article 19 of the Witness Protection Act, protection programmes may also be the international exchange of protected persons. That measure means the relocation of a protected person to or outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia for the purpose of ensuring its safety. More specifically, the measure is defined in Article 27 of that Act, which provides, inter alia, that international exchange is to take place on the basis of the obligations entered into under bilateral agreements concluded by the Republic of Slovenia. The current regime for the international exchange of protected persons therefore provides that the Republic of Slovenia, with the countries with which the exchange is to take place, will have previously concluded rather general bilateral agreements. It has been shown in practice to be pointless, since the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to provide a legal basis and an organisational framework for the protection of witnesses stems from multilateral international instruments, which also mention international exchanges as one of the measures. Therefore, with the proposed amendments and additions to Article 27 of the Witness Protection Act, we are establishing a more effective and appropriate legal basis for the international exchange of protected persons. The exchange of protected persons will therefore be possible only with countries which are parties to the relevant multilateral international treaties or conventions. The transfer of a protected person outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia or the territory of the Republic of Slovenia will take place on the basis of a written agreement between the Protection Unit and the authority of another State responsible for the implementation of the protection programme. That agreement also addresses all issues related to measures in the protection programme, such as which measures will be implemented in addition to relocation. Since, in accordance with the provisions of the Witness Protection Act, the Commission is responsible for the protection of vulnerable persons, the proposed amendments and additions also establish the appropriate competence of that Commission in relation to the measure of international exchange. Since these are less difficult amendments and supplements to the Protection Act, we propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopt the proposed law after the shortening of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u11	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. Mr. Hwauc, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u12	Thanks again for saying that. At its 38th meeting, on 8.11.2007, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Witness Protection Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following a reduced procedure. In the introduction, the representative of the proposer provided an additional explanation to the article of the bill and pointed out in particular that the basic principles of the law do not change with this proposal. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stated that, on the proposed text of the bill, the service had no comments; the members of the committee on the draft law had not discussed, no amendments had been tabled to the bill; the Committee had adopted all the articles of the bill below. As no amendments were adopted to the draft law in second reading at the home labour body, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice to the National Assembly proposes that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the witness protection law be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u13	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Secretary of State! The entry into force in 2005 of the Witness Protection Act has undoubtedly contributed significantly to the fact that from now on the Witnesses, who would otherwise remain hidden from fear or threat, are willing to witness. The law, which is currently undergoing another amendment, has fully regulated this area, but the changes that are the subject of this amendment are, according to the opinion of DeSUS Members, meaningful and we will therefore support the proposed law. The Basic Law lays down, inter alia, a series of emergency protection measures that may be implemented in the witness protection programme, namely, the relocation of persons, modified documents, the prevention of the transmission of personal data and the supervision of inquiries by the prospector, the concealment of identity for the purposes of judicial proceedings, the change of identity, the use of video conferences and telephone conferences, prison measures, economic and social support, and the international exchange. The international exchange shall cover the exchange of protected persons for whom the competent authority has already established defined measures for the relocation of a person. At the same time, it also includes the exchange of personal data to ensure the safety of protected persons. The law provides that this measure of protection shall be implemented on the basis of the obligations entered into under bilateral agreements concluded by the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, under a bilateral agreement, the transfer of a protected person outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia or to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia may take place. In the light of that provision, a bilateral agreement is therefore necessary in relation to a specific case of resettlement of protected persons, where the specificities of a particular case are also determined. The proposal suggests, however, that the conclusion of bilateral agreements be suspended as a basis for the implementation of the international exchange in specific cases. Instead, it is stipulated that the Republic of Slovenia may exchange persons with States Parties to international agreements providing for the protection of persons at risk. We consider such arrangements to be appropriate in the DeSUS Group, as States Parties are obliged to respect the standards of international treaties, including standards of protected witnesses. Given that the proposed solution does not reduce the level of protection of vulnerable witnesses, Members of the DeSUS will also support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u15	Thank you. Ms Maria Possonec will present the position of the Group of National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! Amendments and additions to the law will set more effective and appropriate legal bases for the international exchange of protected persons. The Interstate Bilateral Agreement shall be abandoned as the basis for the implementation of the international exchange in specific cases. The main solution to the proposed amendments and additions concerns Article 27 of the Witness Protection Act, which provides that the exchange of protected persons is only possible with countries that are parties to the relevant international treaties or conventions. Conventions are the area of criminal law, which also defines the protection of witnesses, which lays down certain standards that States Parties must respect. It is appropriate that the Republic of Slovenia exchange vulnerable persons for protection only with such countries. Article 27 on the protection of witnesses must be supplemented by the relocation of a protected person outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia or in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of a written agreement between the Protection Unit and the authority of the other State responsible for the implementation of the protection programme. That agreement also addresses all issues related to measures in the protection programme, such as which measures will be implemented in addition to relocation. The law deserves support and must be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Kovacic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group supports the proposed government law. It is now a matter of amendment to the current law, under which the legal basis for the relocation of a protected person outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and also for the relocation of a person outside Slovenia will be the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to provide the legal basis for an international agreement ratified by Slovenia and no longer by a bilateral agreement as it has been or is still in force under the current law. The principles of the Witness Protection Act now in force do not change in any way. This is therefore a minor change, which has not raised specific concerns in the legislative procedure so far. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have no comments against the amendment under consideration, and we will therefore support the proposed law as it is said.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u19	Thank you. Ms Majda Zupan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The Witness Protection Act, which we adopted two years ago, brought special protection into Slovenian criminal law for those persons whose lives would be particularly at risk because of their testimony. The Act introduced two new bodies, consisting of judges, prosecutors and representatives of the competent ministries, which are competent to decide on the inclusion and termination of the implementation of the protection programme and other acts established by law and uniform for the protection of witnesses, which implements, in particular, the necessary protective measures of witnesses and scapegoats. In order to be included in the protection programme, the person will have to meet the specific conditions and be adequately protected in the light of the level of risk. A person can move, arrange documents, change his identity, the person will receive economic and social support, and the financial means of support will be exempt from taxes. The relocation of witnesses to another country requires the cooperation of the Slovenian authorities with the competent authorities of foreign countries, which requires an agreement. Although the law provided for the conclusion of general bilateral agreements, such arrangements in practice proved to be pointless, since the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia was already based on multilateral international documents. Thus, the amendment of the law is now a more appropriate legal basis for the exchange of protected persons, which will only be possible with countries that are parties to the relevant multilateral treaties or conventions. The relocation of the protected person will take place on the basis of the written agreement of the Protection Unit and the authority of the other State responsible for the protection. In the New Slovenia Group, it seems necessary to ensure that witnesses do not fear for their lives and the lives of their loved ones if they cooperate with law enforcement authorities. It is important to ensure protection before life is directly threatened. We hope that these changes will bring about faster action by the competent authorities, and that more people will be encouraged to testify that they did not previously hope for their own safety and safety. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that it is a novel upgrade to the law and we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u22	President, Honourable Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The basis for regulating the implementation of witness protection is based on international documents which also regulate an international exchange measure. The aim of the bill is to provide a more appropriate legal basis for the international exchange of protected persons. Today's debate is the 27th Article of the Witness Protection Act, which lays down the basis for an international exchange, and this is based on the provision that the exchange of protected persons is only possible with countries that are parties to the relevant international treaties or conventions. This leaves the need for bilateral agreements between countries as a basis for international exchange in an individual case. The draft law provides that this Article 27 must be amended so that the transfer of a protected person outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia or to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia may take place on the basis of a written agreement between the Hazardous Persons Protection Unit and the authority of the State responsible for that area. Similarly, Germany, Italy, Slovakia have a similar law, as described in the drafter’s material. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party believe that some areas need to be simplified and the proposed amendment to Article 27 goes in this direction in our opinion. Bilateral treaties as a basis for the implementation of international activities are, in particular, the past. However, it is necessary to ensure that these cases are dealt with quickly and more effectively. Article 27 of the Witness Protection Act is thus broader and more realistic as it is a condition for the implementation of an international exchange that the countries in which the exchange takes place are parties to the relevant international treaties. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support this bill for these reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u23	Thank you. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THAT IS TO RECOMMEND THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE ORGANISATION AND FINANCING OF EDUCATION AND EDUCATION LAW At its 24th extraordinary meeting, on 30 October 2007, the Council of State decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the National Assembly to decide again before declaring the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation of education and education. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to explain the Council's request. Dr. Zoltan, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u24	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u25	I'd like to go to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u26	Thank you for your word and for the opportunity to explain the position of the State Council in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Although it is difficult to do so after all these hours and countless debates that have taken place around this law, there has been a situation where the public has largely disintegrated when there has been a huge conflict between the professional and the general public. This is not just about unions, as is the standard word and evaluation. In addition to the labour union of education, education and research activities, the law also opposes: Association of Principals of Primary Schools, Society of Directors, Society of kindergartens, Association of Secondary and Student Homes, Association of Special Rehabilitation Educators, Society of Defectologists, among the signatories are: Diagnostic Organization, Student Organization, Activities of the World of Parents of Ljubljana Basic Schools, Society of Logopedes, Center of Society for Autism and anyone else who would be found who opposes this law. However, you also received signatures in the National Assembly by giving more than a clear warning that the question of how this law would live in practice and then the role of the Council of State is to draw attention to this as a representative of civil society outside the established path, to the issue and to offer an opportunity. This option is so much more current today because the forecasts are very clear and explicit that there is also the possibility that there is also a possibility, or even conclusions, that a referendum will be called for. If that were to happen, we all know that one year of marriage should not change. However, the State Council has never claimed that marriage is totally bad and unacceptable. It is unacceptable in some key points and any smart proposer could withdraw these points and then reach a broader consensus. So it's not about what the secretary of state says about the possibility of riding on an ass and people are never satisfied, not in one combination or another, but it's about inappropriately big things. Unfortunately, only private education was debated in the public debate, but it is far from being the only problem that exists. Equally problematic is the possibility of establishing centres, institutions, regardless of what the profession is thinking. The National Assembly has already addressed a similar law in its previous reference, which has proposed the same solution. And this is where it goes by, on behalf of some rationalisation that can damage the level that we have achieved in this area. Another very topical and important issue is the financing of schools according to the student. It is true that the applicant withdrew that part, which was even more controversial, of the financing of primary schools according to the student. The rest was set out in the financing of secondary schools. I was working alone at a school where they were experimentally carrying out such funding, and I'll tell you that there were very serious things, traumatic things in teaching staff. The pooling of departments, groups in impossible conditions and even until the class was not fully prepared for the general graduation, but they formed one organisational unit from different departments that had a completely separate education, and of course the whole dimension of the teaching required for such important things as the preparation for graduation has fallen away. This provision gives the directors or future directors free time. I believe that some people could be satisfied with this, but I doubt that the country would have sufficient resources in the form of standards, standards and controls and quality checks for schools to prevent abuses, and this is useful. Wherever there is a mix of public funds and the possibility of private ownership, there is a danger, and here the state must withdraw or ensure mechanisms to control it. That is also the importance of this proposal, the most controversial proposal to 100% finance the private school programme. This is a whole series of misunderstandings, and I doubt I can explain anything. However, let me recall that this duality in funding arose when the election of Demos took place. At that time, Dr. Peter Vencelj, first as Republic Secretary for Education and Education, later as Minister, achieved that the religious schools of the time, including the Theological Faculty, were also funded by some acrobat leaps, but were all financed 100%. And we forgot that these schools were supposed to be raised only for the purposes of the church. This was originally when they started to educate in Vipava, instead of on the river, these things. Then, in 1994, there was a correction that prevented the establishment of secondary schools and the "best seller" in this National Assembly, a document that appears most frequently in the public, this vote sheet, clearly shows who was in favour of limiting this 100% funding of the schools at the time. If you'll excuse me, Mr. President, may I continue? Thank you very much. Ambassador Grimms has already taught me and trained me, and this time I thank him very much for his statements, which he will have a chance to make. I do not reply and hope that they will be more real and more precise than they were in the current debates. Regardless of this intrusion, which reminds me of only 1925, when a Member of the Parliament's text was arguing with Mussolini, regardless of this intermezza, then I have to say this about this right that all citizens have the right to equal shares. If all citizens have the right to enroll in private schools, then we will allow all citizens, the state probably has no resources, has no purpose, or will abolish public education. It's an extreme consistency. As long as they have only a few schools and only some parents are able to come to a private school, to the school as they wish, then this is not an equalization of opportunity. Another thing is, each parent wants his child to be as educated as possible, locked up in a cot, and that nothing would happen to him to have genius without effort. Then something else appears in life. Parents have the right to dream about it, and the state has no duty to do so or to do so or to decide on such a radical step that it will then abolish the entire public education. Whoever's hoping for that is hoping. The fact is that there are also illusions about prepared people who are willing to invest in school space, invest and so on. I think it's quite an illusion. This private school space already exists. There are also staff and, in fact, there is a similar issue to that of military Kurates, that the state assumes part of the costs, part of the financial obligations of another non-state institution. More worrying, however, is the fact that countless different schools can appear in the same way. Everyone has a right. The question is whether the state can tolerate private schools of different minorities. When Dr. Vancel introduced Waldorf School there were five different private school programs, but we didn't accept them if they did today. Everything seems to be running out of time. I'm sure you'll decide as best you can for Slovenian. [[...]] [[a sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u27	Thank you. The request was also addressed by the Committee on Education and Sport as a parent working body. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. Branku Grims for an additional explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Culture, Education and Sport is the proposal or request of the State Council that the National Assembly decide once again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education at its 16th emergency session. The Committee took note of all three key comments from the Council of State, as well as the arguments presented by the Secretary of State, Dr Alenka Šverc. In fact, in the next debate, the most important talk was about an article allowing the worst crimes that some have named in the public discourse against pedophile to be excluded from the school process. This article is intended primarily to protect our children and, despite the rather gruesome opening of the debate, it has quickly proved to be an article that achieves a relatively high level of consensus, after which the Committee has passed on to the vote. There were 9 votes in favour and four against, but this means that the committee did not back this law again, as it would require 10 votes to vote on the decision given that an absolute majority of all the members of the committee were required. The Committee could therefore conclude by finding that the decision to support the re-voting was not adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u29	Thank you. I give my word to the representative of the government to Minister of the Beast. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u30	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for the word and opportunity to speak again on the proposed amendment to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. More or less, the proposed veto, which was adopted in the State Council, re-explanated its vision and the reasons why it was vetoed. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has responded and has given its opinion on this veto where, at all points, the arguments of the State Council or the state councilors who wrote this initiative are rejected. The fact is that the non-admission of this law could cause considerable problems in the process of modernising the Slovenian school system, so in recent days we have witnessed various proposals, various proposals for how to resolve the situation. The fact is that part of the opposition threatened with a referendum if this law is once again adopted. The President of the Social Democrats, Mr Borut Pahor, personally assured me that he would certainly support the referendum and thus try to block the adoption of the amendment. Even though the law brought a great deal of news, only two of them were at odds. And because of these two things, perhaps even because of one, there is a danger that the other necessary things will not be accepted. What to do in a given situation, how to be responsible in a given situation, especially toward parents and students in a Slovenian school? Let me first point out what the novelties of this law would bring. Certainly, if it had not been established, there would have been no legal basis for the application of complete free textbooks across the entire vertical in primary school. So not accepting the novel would mean this for the first time. We have already extended our freeness to the seventh grade. This novel would also provide a legal basis, and we have already provided material resources in the following year to ensure that the whole primary school is free of charge in this respect. It should also be possible for students to receive free extended stay up to the fifth grade of primary school. The current system is different, so the fifth and sixth classes are half due to parents, half founder. So this concession would also have fallen to parents if this law had not been enforced. It is likely that the most far-reaching consequences would have been the blocking of the Bologna renovation study for the profile of the teacher, the educator. As we know, the teacher is a regulated profession in Europe as well as in us. The faculty needed a legal framework within which they would train the staff and by predicting the blockade of the adoption of this novel, there was a lot of anxiety, especially in the leadership of the teaching colleges, which personally addressed me, asking what they should do in the given situation. The MoFAS system, too, is the modernisation of the organisation and funding of secondary education and education, which they have begun to introduce to us as an experiment long before I came to this place, and which covers more than two-thirds of schools, would in some way be at risk. We're also giving him a system base here. So MoFAS can no longer be denied, given that the vast majority of schools are already included in the system itself. This is not just a matter of principality, it is a much broader system of organisation and funding for vocational and vocational education. I am sure that the failure to enforce the law will also lead to a significant stalemate in the area of the application of quality in school. In Slovenia, for about 15 years, different levels and different professional institutions have been taking place, various studies, evaluation studies, quality studies and the like. However, there were very few systemic solutions based on all these studies, and this law would allow some structural solutions to be able to implement everything that has been done so far in research offices into practice. Slovenian schools, both at the primary level and at the higher level, urgently need a ID card, some system of clear indicators that will give their environment an image of quality of work. From the point of view of involving parents in the educational process, it is likely that this law is very important because it actually involves parents and enables creative participation in the education and education process and in some ways establishes one structural pillar for this. Of course, it is very important, and what would bring new legislation, enabling private public partnership, including in the field of vocational and professional education. What has not been possible so far. We're probably the only country within the OECD, and I can't say for sure, but very likely, which doesn't allow it right now. So, this economy is currently unable to participate constructively in the process, as an actor, actively, as an operator in the field of vocational and vocational education. Mr Grims has already mentioned the importance and role of the so-called anti-pedophilic article, which would also not have been normally adopted by the non-implementation of this law, and this would have resulted in the possibility that all perpetrators of worse crimes already employed in the system would not have been able to be excluded from this system. But you won't think it's just a matter of principle. Unfortunately, it's not. The law, the novelty, also includes learning Slovenian for foreigners and a variety of urgent news. Perfectly, I have launched two centres, which in some normal circumstances would be a completely normal novelty, allowing, as an option, the founder to organise a self-educational education process. Clearly, our situation is not mature enough for something like this. They are not mature enough to abolish tuition and, at the same time, to eliminate the duality of funding of public service providers. As you know, we have a very awkward and ridiculous situation, which was enacted in 1996, that some individuals who run public programmes to understand each other are only those funded 85% and some are 100%. It's a little awkward. Nor have we been able to reach enough consensus here, especially at the political level. Apparently, with certain manipulations during the referendum campaign, they would narrow it down, focusing only on the question of Catholic schools, which is nonsense. The concept of private schools in Slovenian schools was adopted, designed, set in the 1990s. Since then, schools have had every opportunity to develop as private schools. And this article or a new mode of funding would virtually not bring about any major impetus to the establishment of these schools, because, in particular, in the field of primary education, it is a completely non-profit activity and requires a large, large contribution of material resources to the school system itself. I am convinced that if there were slightly more private schools, the Slovenian school system would profit, because anyone who decided to do so would have to invest several million dollars in the school system, which the country could then make for some other purpose. So, on two points, the situation is not ripe for discussion on this novel. This is an equivalent, equal funding for public programme providers and a second point, the free organisation of school founders. Here part of the political opposition, which is also media-intensive, and part of the union movement opposes it. There has been no social and political consensus here. We practically started the debate by discussing this law exactly one year ago. When the autumn meetings of directors begin, ordinary annual meetings, and then we started this dialogue, first within the house, within the school system, and then a broad debate with the social and political partners, and much coordination. The points I mentioned earlier are either a consensus or an agreement. But obviously everything in education has to be coordinated if anything is to be accepted, which is not even bad. But if he's blackmailing himself on one side, it's hard to work. Last but not least, this Government has been given a mandate in the elections and it would be expected that, even on the basis of this legitimacy gained in democracy, something could be decided without full consensus with the social partners. But because of them, we have decided not to make a decision in such a way that both points of dispute, this is the centres and the method of funding, 100% of the funding left to the future, and so far she will try to find a way to withdraw these two points of dispute and to be sent to the National Assembly for a decision only that part of the law that has not received major criticism or disagreements. In practice, this means that the government will today propose to the Members of the ruling coalition not to vote in favour of the law, the law will fall as a result of this. At the same time, it raises the question of what to do now, whether to play or set up some Kalimerian attitude and opposition, which is responsible for failing to accept this law, to accuse them of not adopting all the other good aspects of the law that actually bring some new value into the school system itself, or to be responsible to the students and parents and to propose immediately all those changes that have been coordinated. And we decided on the second, because we want the school field not to be a field of ideological conflict, which would especially come to light during the referendum. We might even get a referendum, but it would require a lot of energy, and you can trust me that there wouldn't be much room for that at the time of the Ministerial Council. We wished that during the presidency there would be no interpretations, there would be no referendums that would actually tie us to our own political space, but they were empty hopes. Mr Pahor's threat has put me further into thinking and we have decided as we have decided. However, we want the debate on how to finance to continue, the modernisation of the education organisation to continue in the Slovenian political space, and I want to come to some agreement, because I feel that some things have become a norm that cannot be resisted in the modern world. I also hope that you will understand this gesture as a gesture of good faith, in order to actually withdraw education from the sharp ideological and political debates. Well, if I may conclude. We will propose to the government coalition that this law falls due to threats by referendum and for other reasons. The government will put a new law into the procedure without these two points of dispute, and now you, not only members of the ruling coalition, are the opposition as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u31	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everyone. Let me mention in the introduction that the organisation of funding and the implementation of education and education has raised a lot of interest in thinking in the DeSUS Group. It is also right to say that we have not been in all parts, in all proposals of the same mind, and we have not considered this to be a bad thing, and there are also individual differences in thinking. For the time being, this welcome forecast of yesterday that a new law will be drawn up, a few dilemmas will be resolved, but in a later period, I think, they will return to the forefront and will have to be resolved. So yesterday's announcement was that this law was not voted out, in fact, the best part of yesterday and also the only thing that could not be predicted in advance. Of course, it upsets us, just as others would say the substantive, organisational, financial, and, after all, the ideological political part of the thinking of this law that has been proposed. Unfortunately, there was an argument, which is only a conditional argument, so far away that in the end it started with threats, so far away that we split in half, so that we could almost sink and there are also some weaknesses, perhaps worth mentioning. First of all, with regard to the referendum, we feel that if the referendum were to take place, exactly what happened just recently, the referendum should have talked about the content, so that it would have been up to us to decide what to do with the power of the number and not on the basis of arguments. It wouldn't be anything we didn't already know. Secondly, such remarks are worth mentioning, which also obliges us in the DeSUS Group to support the initiative, the financial contribution that this referendum entails and which, by the way, is said to be several times the necessary annual resources in order to finance this private or private school, which is now functioning, 100%, for several times. Third, such an important thing that has been observed, at least with us, is that it was actually a politically prestigious conflict. That it was possible to feel quite ideologically doctrinal, without now condemning to the left or to the right, but it was just like a shadow hanging all the time and also express itself explicitly. It is right that we should not do this in the school area so clearly, and it is also right that this rate of change slows down slightly, that new arguments are put on the table and that it is reconsidered. And what the white book has already written comes true and what is called a gradual and more reliable introduction of this kind of novelty, which is what it is now about. I have those issues in mind. So, let me reiterate that the announcement of withdrawal for us, for the DeSUS Group, is welcome, that we also support it because perhaps it means not only a change in the way in which this law works, but we would like it to be a change in the way Parliament works in general. In order to be more willing to listen to arguments, therefore, to slow down when necessary, when there is too much obstacle on the way and not always threaten with power, one or the other. While we also point out that the danger may be that this has occurred for external reasons, not because of internal considerations due to this withdrawal. We hope we're wrong about that. In this hope that it shows the decision to start adopting these legislations, too, the DeSUS Group will not support the bill, will allow a new proposal to be drawn up and will be one that is worthy of our support again. We hope, however, that it will not be just verbal support later on in private school discussions and that the hypocrisy will not be such that the wheelsticks will then be pushed at every turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u33	Thank you. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! In the SDS Group, we will take the floor when the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Janez Janša, gave it yesterday, in this Chamber, of course, we respect it consistently. The very consistent respect for the word is what separates us from the current opposition in the public eye, whose signature, when it comes to supporting projects such as the management of the European Union, is only valid for as long as it is in their express interest and then the dead letter is on paper. As we say, we will respect our word in a consistent manner. But the withdrawal of the marriage that is foretold has multiple dimensions. Those who, colleagues who perform responsible functions in the Government, were unable to present because they are highly politically coloured, and the key dimension that I wish to present today, our gestures, is much more important in the long term, than the short-term effect only of goodwill gestures. In order to understand what this is about, however, it is necessary to go back to the story of this law and, above all, to finance education and education or Slovenian education. After the entry into force of the new Constitution in 1991, this problem was resolved by the granting of concessions for some time. At that time, all the largest private churches were established and awarded concessions. On the concession contracts, the signature of Minister Gabra, who was apparently doing his job well during that period, also rewarded his work by means of a bill which, in 1996, gave them a permanent legalization of 100% financing of private church schools. Whoever did this is visible from this poster. In fact, for 100% funding of private church schools they voted: Mr. Janez Kocijancič, Mr. Cyril Ribičič, Danica Simšič, then Matej Kožuh Novak, Jadranka Šturm Kocjan, in short all SD Members - Pahorje SD. They also voted: Mr Tone Anderlich and then Mr Jožef Školč and all other LDS Members. Also, a member elected on the list of the Slovenian National Party - the SNS - voted in favour of 100% financing of private church schools, and thus it was passed into law. This law will also apply after the withdrawal of this law, which we have announced, and 100% of the financing of private church schools will be carried out smoothly because you have just legislated it; gentlemen from SD, LDS, SNS and all others from the then coalition. So all that has been said on this subject in the past few months has been the netness of the cultural struggle by means of hate speech. Let me quote just two cases. Mr Potrč said that 100% of the financing of private church schools is a violation of the principle of separation of church from state. Ms Potrate said, however, that financing private schools from public funds is an injury to public education. Given that they have enacted this themselves; as we have all just seen; already in 1996, it will be very interesting to hear how they will explain it to their constituents - and they are obliged to explain it. And here is the essence of our gesture, because the netting of cultural warfare through hate speech is something that Europe does not know. And we will, now clearly, after yesterday's confidentiality accepted by the Government, start leading the European Union in just a month, and this gesture of ours has also had a long-term historical significance, and I hope that the transition left will not miss it. We wanted to offer this gesture of goodwill to our colleagues in a position of transition left to stand before their electorate, apologized to them for having had them and the entire Slovenian public as a madman, and smoked with the help of an enemy speech a cultural struggle and thus cease for ever. This would be a small step for history, but proof that the Slovenian Transition Left parties are also able to enter Europe worthily, because as long as they do not fight culturally, which is a rare thread of their conduct, it is necessary to know that this in modern Europe does not have room, it belongs to another place and a completely different time, which we all believed was long ago. I hope you don't miss this historic opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u35	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State and co-worker, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The re-voting of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education takes place in special circumstances. Because advocates and, above all, advocates of the law just before today can decide what we expected of them in the Social Democrats Group long ago. On every occasion, we have shown that social harmony is needed for such fundamental changes as are now enshrined in the law. We therefore welcome the Minister for Education and Sport's announcement that he will withdraw the law, thus encouraging coalition Members and Members not to support the law. This is in their hands now, and we must wait for the vote. I would like to point out that we consider this to be a smart move, because it is now clear to most that the consent of the law does not have to be opposed by the State Council, the unions, the interested and professional public and the opposition. The disunity not caused by those who voted against the law, but by those who, without listening to different views, forced and rushed to the last, this is the third reading, is linked to the referendum's announcement. Due to known facts, this would have been carried out already during the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union, so that the decision to reject the law is also smart in this respect. Of course, it should be pointed out that we expect the re-imposed proposal to be submitted to the social partners and the professional public for consideration, based on the changes that are necessary, but not on those which some think are necessary. We have a clear position in the Social Democrats' Group and in the Social Democrats' professional council and in the Social Democrats's Educational Council on the adoption of school legislation for a long time: changes must be professionally justified, the effects of changes should be presented, social consensus with the social partners, the professional and interested public must be presented. We are also aware that this has also been pointed out by the partners in the Partnership for Development. So the fact that there is no consensus is clear from the middle of the year when the referendum was first announced. We have carefully considered the referendum in the Group of Members and as a possibility we have also made it clear. Consent is in the opposition to the referendum. Therefore, it is not possible to predict and connect everything only with the capriciousness of individuals in the parliamentary group. Let me point out that there are only two moments in which there is no agreement. This is 100% private education funding and the organisation of centres. They ignored, however, whether they wanted to, or didn't know, even the third completely unacceptable proposal, which is funding per participant. At the same time, we have repeatedly pointed out other points on which no consensus has been reached. We believe that it is necessary to define precisely the position of the Council for Quality and Evaluation, which should become an independent institution, which, with the European comparable criteria applicable to public and private schools, could in fact provide an activity leading to a quality school. The implementation of the experiment cannot be monitored only by the Education Institute, which, under the circumstances in which it operates, is not capable of doing so. Taking away the competence of the Professional Council for general subjects at the vocational graduation is still an unacceptable solution for us. There are also some other solutions, both in relation to traineeships, with a provision on national organisation of parents, with the right to vote for representatives of employees in sacred institutions, including for heads of units and assistants of directors, so there are many such things. We therefore welcome this gesture of failure to support the law, but we expect it to have other necessary and urgent effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u37	Thank you. Dr Mitja Slavinec will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! At the LDS, we support the Minister's proposal not to support the law. We regret, however, that this proposal has only come to light now that there is a threat in the air after another lost referendum that this proposal has not come to light before, at the time of coordination and during the legislative procedure in this National Assembly, because this could lead to a significantly better and substantially more harmonised law. Although the Minister has only referred the proposal to the MPs, we will also vote against this law in the LDS Chamber. Last but not least, we are also bound by the decision of the parent working body, where no proposal has been made to support the law. The two important points of the proposal are highlighted by the proposer, who will withdraw them and who have been in trouble all the time. This is funding for education, funding for public and private education and, of course, school centres. There is no way we can agree to the possibility of private education development being made possible at the expense of public education when it comes to funding at the LDS. That's the main offense, our main consideration. We certainly support the development of education, but the development of education as a whole. We certainly also support the possibility of establishing a higher standard of education in order to establish elite schools, but should be able to participate in them evenly and equally to all. And on the one hand, we see that the number of students is falling, that generations are shrinking, that schools are not too small to need new additional schools. On the contrary. With additional schools, we know that the money that will finance private schools will have to be used to finance them 100 percent of the time, so that the money will have to be taken away from public schools. This means that, of course, there will be so much less money for public schools. And that is certainly unacceptable to us. This is seen as leading the development of our education to a similar disassembly as we have in a similar disassembly of public education as we can witness in the dismantling of public health care, and we can all see the consequences and waiting times that have arisen there. Next thing you know, they're high school centers. It is not so problematic that school centres can also create factory knowledge and knowledge is certainly something other than goods, a product that can be produced in factories, large factories. Knowledge is essentially different and more important. The greater the problem is that school centres make it possible to significantly increase and facilitate the impact of policy and make it easier to involve policy in the education system. Instead of so many and so many administrators in one area, the policy will now see to it that only one supervisor will be appointed to manage all the administrators. This is certainly a problem and, of course, we are pleased that this inconvenient solution is also proposed for withdrawal. Of course, we have also heard more things than why the law is necessary and, of course, this is not entirely true, is not a threat to the development of Bologna. Also free textbooks, there are already school curricula, the abolition of tuition, yes, they will not be given tuition, but voluntary contributions to school funds will continue to be paid. The extended stay is now in the fifth and sixth classes. Now it will be financed to a greater extent only in the fifth. In the future, there must be much more discussion for a good marriage. And we want to see that this discussion will involve both the professional public and the professional public to a greater extent, teachers and trade union organisations in a more equal role and, finally, the opposition as well. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] As a result of this motion to withdraw from the LDS Club, we do not take the opposition's victory over the coalition. We see this as the victory of education, education, teachers over ideology and political involvement in education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u39	Thank you. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, Minister with colleagues, representative of the Council of State, Members and Members of Parliament, and all those who accompany us! The constant opposition to the amendments to the law on the financing of education and education by the opposition and the Syndicate of Education and Education has also produced fruit in the State Council to give the proposed law a non-trust. But in the spring, the same world organized a consultation on this subject, and if they read the views of the debaters, they would see that they were not disturbed by funding, but they all looked at quality education. So, what's the issue with the State Council? This novel makes it possible and provides financial resources for all schools, both public and private, in the public sector when it comes to paying publicly recognised programmes by the State, i.e. teachers' salaries and teaching aids. So, teachers don't go to one or the other school, they don't get paid for this novel. What they didn't have when the current government took over. At that time, there was a shortage of teachers' salaries in the budget, but there was no State Council or SWIZ, although the main concern of the union would be the situation of workers in the school. Today, however, SWIZ was the very initiator of collecting signatures against this novel. So he went against the rights of parents and children it is against constitutional decisions that education and education are the rights and duties of parents. In Novi Slovenija, we are very sorry that this law has so much politicized itself and brought separateness to schools. In schools they practically had to sign this petition for quality public education, under the pretext that they would be at work because they were threatened by private education. You created an ideological battle. Teachers do not talk to each other, and they must not express their views publicly, especially for the sake of loving peace and their own security with regard to the ministry. What is the old law, and why do we oppose it or want it to be corrected? For example, the school of the same founder pays 100% of the education programme in Ljubljana and only 85% in Maribor. We're wondering why. In Maribor, parents are richer than in Ljubljana to pay for compulsory primary education, and this difference to pay compulsory primary education and this difference up to 100%. Where is equality before marriage, in the same country, for our children? We are against putting Slovenian children in an unequal position. We regret that opponents of the novel do not strive for quality education and education. I have not heard that opponents have any comments on the quality of programmes, or that they are aware of the negative consequences of private school education - they are only doubts and fears. Therefore, why such opposition to competition, which is obviously strong due to quality, the variety of educational methods that are effective. No private school, for example, has any security guards. The government provides equal opportunities for all schools in this segment, so in Novi Slovenija we cannot accept the arguments of opponents that the current regime is the only right and just. All other amendments to the law have not received so much attention from opponents of the novel, especially when the possibility of voluntary integration has been given to the centres. However, if parents were to become more connected at the local level rather than at the state level, as the novel now allows, their voice would be heard more today. And now they're standing in the background, like there's no room for them in the school space. In Novi Slovenija we are for equality before the law, for free education and quality and accessible to all. This is what this novel brings, unfortunately, once again won the intolerance, and in Novi Slovenija we did not change our position.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u42	President-in-Office, Minister-in-Charge with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament. The proposal for amendments to the Education and Education Financing Act was based on analyses of the reforms implemented and the state of education. They have been prepared by a group of experts, many debates and hearings have been held, and we believe that the law is good and that it brings urgent changes that will increase the quality of education and also improve the educational functions of our public education. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party also supported the amendment. We are not thinking differently today either, but in the meantime there have been many things going on. By collecting signatures against any changes, the education and education union has created an atmosphere of public education, the threat of teachers in education and education, the giving of advantages to the private, the rounding up of reading church education, the creation of elitism in education, and a variety of other ideological and demagogic non-realitys; and it is difficult to fight demagogies, especially against ideological ideology. We agree with the Government's proposal that as a coalition we listen to criticism and prevent a referendum, especially so that we can make the necessary changes in the Education and Education Financing Act as quickly as possible. It is therefore serious to note that coordinated changes should be prepared as quickly as possible to preserve the content of the changes that are necessary for quality changes in education and education. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will abstain from voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u43	Thank you. Ms Majda Shirca will present the views of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is dangerous to fly against the wind and the wind, and we really believe in ourselves that it is right that the government has finally served the compass. Veto in the State Council for a re-examination of the fate of the Law on the organisation of education and education, financing of education and education has proved meaningful. This was also a good opportunity for reflection within coalition species. Whether yesterday's message was delivered by the Prime Minister because of fear of the referendum or because of the real realization that the solutions brought by law are not good, this message is to be welcomed. And at this point in time, it is not really that important a reason, either for this or for another background, to keep this law or for rejecting it. It is important that the coalition parties today hold their vote to keep their word and that they do not confirm the contested law. Indeed, we would prefer to hear that the reasons for retaining this law are professional in nature and not demagogic, as we are hearing today, but that the stopping, continuing and possibility of this law being brought to life is important and, as it is said, we really welcome it. We welcome the fact that the bill coalition will not adopt, as some of the solutions have not received sufficient support in the professional and wider public interest, and indeed the parliamentary group will support the adoption of the law by means of a rapid procedure, as we have heard today, all those solutions that are not sufficiently controversial at this point in time to require re-coordination and a broader debate, that is to say those solutions that have already been harmonised by this point. In addition to these two solutions, which the Prime Minister has pointed out today and yesterday, we would like to point out in Zares that some others are open to the public, as well as to the trade union of the contested solution, which it would be reasonable to discuss them further and to find more optimal solutions before the law is adopted in a quick procedure. And in looking for these more optimal solutions, which do not yet have sufficient consensus and consensus or support, the Group of Ambassadors will engage constructively. Let me mention that this is primarily about funding according to the number of children and students and students in secondary schools, this is the solution that will be given to participants in education when schools and kindergartens are forced to increase their number in departments, which will have an impact on the quality of work in the departments. Let me also mention the reduction in selectivity at the expense of the introduction of another foreign language, not the introduction of another foreign language itself, and in particular the key message that we have already delivered in the entire debate, especially after the 2008 and 2009 budget, that a re-launch of the proportion of resources within GDP is necessary for quality public education, at least to the level that we know in 2004 and 2005. Indeed, in the Group of Members, we will be pleased to repeat the vote made on the home committee when we have voted by retaining this law. In short, we will support the veto and, as we say, support all solutions when we are to meet with a rapid procedure for further consideration of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u45	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! A respected minister with his associates! I'm gonna start by asking myself if Minister Beast and his government actually know what he's doing. Last week, very arrogant performances by too many coalition members were listened to only on the home working body. Last week, Minister Beast made very clear statements Friday in support of his marriage. Minister Beast was looking forward to the referendum last week, even though he knew that he would be able to demonstrate to the general public how good the law was at that time during the EU presidency. Today Minister Beast says no. The referendum during the EU time is not because we will not have time. Last week, Minister Beast said that 75,000 signatories, who made it very clear that they were opposed to such legislation, were bluffing that the signatories were not worth it, 75,000 people in our country meant nothing. Clearly, the situation is different today. I'm happy that a move has been made, and I'm going to say a little ugly now, in the very hard heads of some politicians. Why? Because marriage is bad. Not in all segments, but he's clearly very bad at key points. And these key points contained in the law can in the long term mean a decline in the quality of public education, the degradation of public education, the quality of privacy, private education. You know, the work we have witnessed under this government, including in the field of health, I believe that citizens and citizens will not nod again. And we do not want such a privatisation of public education in the Slovenian National Party. Because the government is convinced that it has also been given a mandate in elections to decide without consensus, even because the government is confident of this, it is losing confidence between citizens and citizens, because it is a bad policy that leads to such times as this government hates so much. It saddens me, indeed, that today in the speeches of some fellow Members before me who have smiled and who are smiling even now, we have heard very demagogic words. Does this law really mean introducing Bologna reform? No, respectable colleagues and colleagues. But neither does the president of the government. Does this law really mean that textbooks for all children attending primary school will be free? Do you know what a textbook fund means? Who set up the textbook funds? Who financed the textbook funds? Otherwise, it gives the basis for free textbooks an existing law. Anti-pedophilic article, Minister, at least when you're trying to use professional terms for a speaker. Otherwise, I recognise this subject, in a distorted form, includes the existing Law on Financing Education and Education. And if you were really so keen on this matter, if you were so highly ethical, a legal prohibition on the employment of convicted offenders of crimes against sexual inviolability in the field of education and education could have been in place for more than a year. But then you said clearly and loudly in this House, no. Dear colleagues, do not deceive the public. Be morally ethical if you hope to be. We will not support this law in the Slovenian National Party, as we did in May 2007, when the debate began in this Parliament. I'm sorry you didn't get smart at the time, too, because today you could have a marriage that was good.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u47	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural and Agriculture Collection of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with Mr Aloise Posedel, first signed. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of Article 134(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I give the floor to the President of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mrs Marjetka Uhan, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u48	Thank you very much again for your word. And a nice greeting to the Minister of Agriculture! At its meeting, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food discussed a proposal for amendments to the Law on the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia, which was submitted by the Zares Group with the first signed Aloise Posedel. The Committee was co-chaired by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Legal and Legislative Service, the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber and the Union of Farmers of Slovenia. We have received written opinions from the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Council of State. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the opinion of the Council of State was negative, they did not support the amendment of the law and the Legal and Legislative Service had comments on the proposed amendments to the articles. No amendments were tabled. In the debate, the representative of the proposers explained the purpose of the amendment of the law. The main objective was to raise the threshold of the cadastral income for compulsory membership, from 82 to 355, to cover mainly those farmers whose agriculture is a major activity or a major activity. In the debate in which Members also participated, they mainly felt that this law should be pursued, but they did not propose concrete or final solutions. Finally, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food adopted the conclusion that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u49	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the bill's proponents, Mr Posedel. He's not here. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the mother labour body, Mr Iztok Jarc from the Ministry of Agriculture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. All due respect! So, I would just repeat what was already said. In our view, the law is not suitable for further consideration, since it does not include a supplement to the legal basis for the recovery of the chamber’s contribution, does not complement the area of the regional units of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber with the newly established municipalities. The draft law is also not sufficiently relevant with regard to the criteria for the composition of the Council of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber, the proposal is inadequate with regard to the fixing of the amount of the lump sum and is likely to be a clear error of the proposer, and the way in which the proposal is implemented is also considered by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly to be inadequate. For these reasons, the Government does not support and considers that it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u51	Thank you, Minister. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bojan Homan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber: The proposal for the Law of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber does not include the addition of the administrative basis for recovery from the Chamber's contribution, with the application of the Tax Procedure Act, the 26th Article of the Law of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber, which provides for the assessment and collection of the chamber's contribution, is a legal void which does not abolish the proposal for a new law. Nor does the bill abolish district units with newly formed municipalities, so in 2006 new municipalities were formed by law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas. The municipalities in the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber shall consist of an individual regional unit and shall not supplement the list of municipalities. The support of the law was opposed by the parent committee, the farmers' union, the representatives of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, who informed the members of the Commission that the proposal had been addressed by the two highest bodies, namely, an administrative committee and a board which did not support this proposal, since membership in the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber is not regulated in a manner suitable for the conditions of Slovenian agriculture. Following this proposal, the Chamber could no longer represent small and larger owners representatively and coordinate their common and individual interests in the public interest, which is the main task of the Chamber. We believe that the way in which the bill is implemented is inadequate. In view of the implementation of the draft law, the call for further elections to the Council of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber is bound by law and in terms of compliance with the principle of legal certainty is inadequate and time-consuming. For these reasons, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group does not support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural and Economic Chamber Act and considers that it is not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber will present the views of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u54	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone, also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia speaks mostly of compulsory membership or the number of those who have to become mandatory members. The law provides that the amount of cadastral income that constitutes a condition for compulsory membership of natural persons shall be raised to EUR 355. This would halve membership so that out of the 175 thousand members so far, there would be 85,000 members. This solution makes sense already because, as such, the Chamber cannot defend the interests of those who do not actually deal with agriculture, but are compulsory members and in fact have nothing from the Chamber. So this solution certainly solves this problem. Of course, this opens the way for thinking about the principle of equal electoral rights, so that each vote has about the same weight or that about the same number of electoral candidates are elected by approximately the same number of members of the Council of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber. It is therefore also necessary to verify the representation of members from individual regional units. However, this can be verified if the legislative process continues and if the debate on this proposal takes place more broadly, but not to conclude the legislative procedure today. Otherwise, it can be noted that the financing of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber will not be significantly affected by such a reduction in the number of members, as 58% of the Chamber is financed from the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia, 30% from the services and 12% from the contributions of members and members of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber. Such a reduction would not, in fact, weaken and reduce the impact of the Chamber. Of course, this impact is such that from the very beginning the appointment of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber has not been completely cleared, so it would be more important to determine whether organisation is appropriate, since the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber also has in its composition agricultural establishments which employ agricultural advisory services workers and so on and so on. In short, the entire chain, which does not show a transparent and clear responsibility for everything that needs to be done primarily for our farmers. So, the measure that we have been dealing with in the last period, when the Government is trying to reduce funds in the budget for the agricultural advisory service, we believe that it is precisely an expression of the powerlessness of the Government to the chamber, when, in fact, these institutions that have fallen under the auspices of the chamber, namely, the chamber is the founder of agricultural institutions, the state finances it, but there are no mechanisms to influence the functioning of these institutions. And the impact through the reduction of resources is certainly an inappropriate measure, as this in particular reduces the quality of the agri-consulting service and, in particular, the services to farmers who still need this service. So it is a lot of questions that I think we really need to have a broad debate. In this debate, too, to include the extremely important importance of agricultural enterprises, which have been removed from this option by decision-making in the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber at a distance, I would say. In fact, companies have a very low impact on the functioning of the Chamber, such as the impact of companies on the existence and development of agriculture in Slovenia. That is why we would expect the Government to really be involved in the amendment of the Agricultural and Economy Chamber Act in order to clear up all these open issues and indicate when it will submit its law. Unfortunately, the Government has not announced when it will introduce its law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber or amending this law, so in the Social Democracy we believe that it is necessary to continue the legislative procedure with this law and therefore we will not support the decision of the home labour body that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber is an important and necessary institution for Slovenian agriculture in Slovenia, as it represents and coordinates its interests, promotes both the development of agriculture and forestry and, of course, works in the interest of Slovenia and the Slovenian countryside. So far, everything is fine and right, so of course in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we are voting against withdrawing the law from the procedure. There is no doubt in all these debates, both on the Committee and today, that we have a problem and need to solve it. Of course, it was also once modern to be in a party, and it was mandatory, at least for some, today it is mandatory, obviously, for the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. We are aware of the problem and the need for a solution in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, which is why we expect from the Ministry, but also from serious Members and Members, that now that we have opened up the subject, we will take it to the end. The fact is, we have over 150,000 members in the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber who have nothing to look for there. And if it's a residential and an interest organization that still operates in an important public interest, they don't have anything to look for. There is no doubt, however, that during this transitional period, for example, five to ten years when the Chamber is to become an exclusively voluntary organisation, it should bring together the members who need it and, on the other hand, expect certain benefits from it. We have a problem. We obviously don't want to solve it. And as I've already pointed out, we're also going to be plowing the field this year, which is full of weeds. The government promises us a new, almost identical law that supports the solutions that we prepared in the Liberal Democracy more than two years ago, and someone else has put them in, which is not the most important, is that we are looking for solutions. The government is predicting a new law, and I don't know why they haven't been able to amend and amend this existing law in those key articles right now. The key questions to be answered should be how much money the Chamber needs to operate, what is it that we need to ensure that it works in the public interest. In addition, I do not see the difference between what Really proposed, from 55,000 members or 50 members, and between what the Government is leaning towards, there should be 111 thousand members. I don't think the substantive differences are essential. In our view, the right number to talk about is somewhere between 50 and 75 thousand members, those who live from agriculture, which represent an important source of income or even survival. And the vast majority of them would no doubt voluntarily join the Chamber, which must also be slightly different from this current Chamber; it is on the right track and can be even better, even more effective and to the best extent possible both by the country and by the measure of the Slovenian farmer. It is quickly possible to organize a chamber, as I say, in the spirit of what we advocate to come within a few years to voluntary membership, to feel interest, belonging. The main reason for this is that all the members in them see some benefit. However, if we do not achieve this in the long run, then the chamber under this law, the second, third or fourth, will be nothing but something that is unnecessary in agriculture and in rural areas. Decisions of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration will not be supported in the LDS Chamber of Commerce, as it would also be in the light of last night's debate [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] we need to talk about if we have a problem sitting together to save him, not sweep him under the rug like this. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u57	Thank you. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u58	Another novel of the law is before us, this is the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, which they tabled in the party Zares. The proposed amendment raises the threshold of the cadastral income for compulsory membership, from the current 82 euros to 355, and places a new number of members on the basis of which representatives are elected to the offices of the Chamber. Although the proposers made the necessary changes to the law, they did not complete them. They are not convinced of their proposal, but their main purpose is to encourage the ministry to just go ahead and make the right proposal. In New Slovenia, we ask what this proposal is, therefore, if the proposer is not convinced of his proposal. The applicant is not convinced of the threshold, height, or whether it is compulsory membership or optional or what to do with it. We would really expect a little more seriousness from the proposaler, and above all a proposal for a law that we would at least stand behind ourselves. I'm glad one of the first to sign joined us. In New Slovenia, we will support the decision of the parent working body that this novel is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u60	President-in-Office, Honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. Members of the SLS will not be supported by the proposed law. The proposal for a law is not premeditated and does not fully address the issue of representation in the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. The proposal for a Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber increases the amount of cadastral income which is a condition for compulsory membership of a natural person in the Agricultural and Economic Chamber to EUR 355 and reduces the criterion under which the Council of Agricultural and Economic Chambers consists of one member at each beginning of the 1500 members of the first election group from each regional unit. The proposal does not include a supplement to the legal basis for the recovery of the chamber's contribution and does not complement the area of the regional units of the Slovenian Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber with the newly formed municipalities. He's being rejected by the government, and so is the State Council. Following this proposal, the Chamber could no longer represent small and large owners representatively and coordinate their common and individual interests in the public interest, which is the main task of the Chamber. Even the proponents of this law have stated in their explanation that the Chamber is an important institution of a democratic system which is intended to ensure the exercise of special interests in the agricultural part of the Slovenian population. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware of the importance of the housing, economic and professional connection of Slovenian farmers, agro-food and professions related to agriculture and agro-food. We will continue to support the housing union of farmers, as the Slovenian cooperative has a centuries-old tradition and the Agricultural and Economy Chamber represents a European comparable organisation of this area. We must be aware that even bigger farms need representatives of small farms and medium farms to represent their interests if we are to maintain them. Therefore, it is necessary to find a means of representation that will also ensure that the interests of small and medium-sized farms are represented in the assembly system, and not vice versa, that they are deleted from the mandatory membership. For these reasons, we will not support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr Aloise Posedel will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So in the parliamentary group, we really wanted to change with the proposed novel what has been happening since the establishment of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. I am sure that the introduction of this change was on the spot, that everything that the predecessors said and also said at the meeting of the parent committee, indeed, that the agricultural and farm hall has done a great deal since the establishment of this period, a great deal of good, but it is also from the very beginning to notice a certain dissatisfaction, especially with compulsory membership, that this discontent is greater from year to year, and that is why we expected you to start with these governments, that this problem will be addressed by the Government, that we have listened to it from the former Minister, Mrs Lukačič, many times, practically at every meeting and it was only a matter of time when the change of law will take place on the table. On the occasion of the handover and when the new Minister of Agriculture, Mr Jarc, appeared, we also heard that this topic would be on the agenda and indeed the Government's operational programme had been recorded for 2007, but until the month of August there was little fighting. Therefore, by submitting this proposal, we wanted to encourage and determine whether the law was indeed in preparation and whether the Government would present it soon. It was found that when our proposal was published, which significantly raises the threshold for compulsory membership, it was also, in fact, only possible at this point, that it was found that the Ministry had only just begun to coordinate with partners, trade unions, the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber and that our proposed censorship was not drawn to the hair or insolvent, as it had been said before, but that this number was about to remain exclusively for those who are engaged in agriculture, forestry or fisheries, and it was not for those who own any land or forest. I'm sure our move was good. I was convinced, at the hearing of the Home Committee, that the Government would assess that this proposal was not good and I am also looking forward to this proposal, which the Minister has promised. I am sure that it will not be much different, so I would also like to replicate a little bit to my colleague Uhan, the Chairman of the Home Committee, that we have in the Group of Members, in particular, taken many complaints that civil society has collected over 6,000 signatures against this mandatory membership, that things need to be changed, and I am pleased that we will also receive them in this way in the form of a proposal from the Ministry or a proposal from the Government. However, if there was a bit of good will or a little more cooperation, this proposal could be complemented and amended by what you yourself said earlier in order to put forward such a proposal for censorship as it is likely to be in the government proposal. And this is also proof that sometimes, or when the opposition has good suggestions, you should also take account of them. I am confident that today this bill will be assessed as inappropriate for further consideration, but I look forward to it, as promised, that at the next meeting we will consider a government proposal or a proposal from an appropriate ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u64	Respectable present. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party on the issue of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber is identical to the view of the existence of the assembly system. Of course, there is nothing wrong with the assembly system, but there is a poor obligation for compulsory membership within this institution. According to our assessment, any association or association may be the basis for any association of just the individual interest of an individual member, and in no way may there be a reason for combining requirements or legal dictions. Therefore, according to our assessment, we are, of course, opposed to any form of compulsory membership. And compulsory membership has been forced, no matter what interest association we are talking about in any area. We believe in the efficiency of the Chambers, which means that the Chambers must prove themselves on the market, that the Chambers must, on the one hand, prove themselves to their members by providing them with quality and equivalent services, as of course as negotiator to the Government or as facilitator of the transfer of information. However, the fact is that none of these three tasks can and will not be performed by any of the Chambers, including the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, as long as the term or content of the mandatory membership occurs. For compulsory membership brings a constant source of income, thereby moving away from the functioning of any chamber in the market. At the National Party, we are pleased that we have changed the matter in the area of comprehensive assembly activities within the Economic Chamber. In the previous term, I think we tried to change the law three times, but unfortunately, the majority of them -- I'm talking about the Chamber of Commerce -- were not inclined to do so. Therefore, as regards this time's changes and the addition of the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, which is being sent to the parliamentary procedure by a group of Members, we are approaching this departure from mandatory membership - which of course we welcome, but not entirely. According to our assessment, that is to say, according to the assessment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, a voluntary membership element should also be excluded in this Chamber. Therefore, the owners of certain land areas, agricultural, forestry areas, decide on their own interest whether or not to enter this institution. If they choose membership - then they should pay the membership fee, then they should also receive guidance, suggestions, information and similar things from the institution in exchange for this membership. But unless they decide to do so, it is their individual, in our opinion, constitutional right. And it is not right to burden anyone who owns the surface of the earth with tax; for the membership is clearly taxed. From this title, of course, we welcome the first step taken in terms of the content of the proposed law, that is to say, to remove the mandatory membership from a certain circle, which so far have been mandatory members through membership, but not in full. We will support the law, so we will oppose the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which still advocates compulsory membership in this Chamber. From this place, however, I can clearly or with full powers point out that in the Slovenian National Party Group, regardless of the possible adoption of the law, we will also make our own legal proposal, which will fully determine the right of any, all-owned land owner to decide whether or not to be a member and whether to decide whether to pay membership to such an institution or not. We believe in the individual’s free decision, and we believe that the owners are wise enough to decide for themselves whether they fit in with membership in the Chamber or not. Allow me only to ask in the end that, given that 80% of the forests in Slovenia are in private hands and that you do not want it to be owned by this Roman Catholic Church, does it argue that the Roman Catholic Church does not have to be a member of that chamber? Mr. Secretary, because I know you don't have [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] words, I'll be satisfied with your sign so, are they members? [[...]] [[...]] How? Are you going to give a written answer? So we understand they're not members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable in the National Assembly, Mr. Secretary. The collective and cooperative organisation of farmers gives good results, which is also confirmed by positive trends in agriculture. The opportunities for increasing financial progress or, in other words, the income situation in Slovenian agricultural economies have been largely demonstrated and applied after 2000, which coincides with the establishment of the Slovenian Agricultural and Economy Chamber and therefore these positive results in agriculture cannot be a mere case in which the efforts of the Slovenian Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber would not make key contributions. The successful representativeness of one body, which must be able to represent the interests of its members from different economic and social situations vis-à-vis other governmental and non-governmental organisations, depends to a large extent on its power, and not least on the number of memberships. A large majority of the contribution received is paid, from which we can conclude that the interest of farmers is that they are members of the Chamber, i.e. to join in an organised form of representation in which their individual and common interests can be coordinated. It is true, however, that compulsory membership of the smallest farmers, if we can even call them that, given that they do not engage in the agricultural activity because of the very small agricultural areas they own and process, seriously do not engage or are not solely engaged in these types of activities, is not meaningful or not fair. We agree with the mandatory membership in our parliamentary group on those entities which, in view of their needs for active agricultural activities, really need this form of integration into the organisation and their presentation and professional assistance. Therefore, the threshold of compulsory membership, which is linked to the level of cadastral income, needs to be increased, which is also based on a coalition contract, but this must be duly set in order to ensure the effective representativeness of all stakeholders actively engaged in agricultural activities. The setting of the optimal threshold for determining the mandatory membership threshold so that farmers are satisfied and that the House mission can continue to be successfully implemented is difficult in the Slovenian space. Among other things, the fragmentation of agricultural land and, as a consequence, the size of agricultural holdings and the adequacy of the creation of cadastral income levels require great caution in the design of the compulsory membership censorship. In the DeSUS Group, we do not object to an increase in the threshold for compulsory membership in the Chamber, but we believe that the proposed threshold is significantly too high, which could threaten not only the representative task of the Chamber but also its independence and expertise, the performance of tasks and the exclusion of the representation of smaller farms that would thus remain outside the process of co-forming agricultural policy. The issue of dissatisfaction with the obligation of membership in a chamber of smallholders or leasers of agricultural land whose services and services do not even benefit them because they are not seriously engaged in agricultural activities needs to be resolved and we are confident that this will be resolved in due course of the new government proposal. In view of what we have said in the DeSUS Group, we have assessed that the proposed law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u67	Thank you. Ms Maria Possonec will present the position of the Group of National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The proposed amendment to the law is without prejudice to the basic principles on which the applicable law is based, such as compulsory membership, the status of a public-law person and so on. It proposes to amend the amount of the cadastral income, which is a condition for compulsory membership of a natural person in the Slovenian Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber to EUR 355. Such an increase would allow for compulsory membership in the Chamber to actually cover only those natural persons who carry out agri-farming and fishing activities to a significant extent, while ensuring that the representativeness of the Chamber and a sufficient number of members are maintained, which will enable the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia to carry out its tasks in a truly independent and professional manner. I believe that because of such improvements, this novelty of the law deserves attention. And we should not sweep under the carpet and delay the changes of this law for the next few years. Because I believe that the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber is an important factor in agriculture, and only a strong, independent, proactive and representative chamber can help develop our agriculture. And in this Chamber, cooperatives should play a greater role in the development of agriculture with us. If this novel falls now, I hope that the whole law will soon be dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u69	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Third Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lands. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Jarc, for an additional explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Forests further regulates the content that will enable more effective protection of forests than one of the most important natural treasures in Slovenia and, on the other hand, will enable easier and more efficient forest management. The proposed amendments and additions to the law will allow higher and mountain farmers to exercise their priority in granting concessions for the exploitation of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. This will enable them to work in the forests as well as to survive and develop in difficult natural conditions. In all those forests purchased by the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests in its operations, and not subject to concessions granted by the previous 20-year period to its operators, GGs, the Agricultural Land and Forests Fund Act, higher and mountain farmers will be able to exercise their preferential right to grant concessions. Such forests, which are not subject to a 20-year concession, are now about 5,000 hectares. In the future, the fund is expected to buy forests as it has been every year. Planned dynamics are about a thousand hectares a year. This means that, following the adoption of the proposed law and on the basis of a programme in the mountain and hill world, concessions can be granted to altitude and mountain farmers immediately. After 2016, when the 20-year concession expires, farmers will be able to exercise priority in granting concessions for the exploitation of all forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia, of course within the framework of the solutions offered by this law. Slovenia is one of the countries of the European Union with the lowest share of state forests. In line with the guidelines of the Forest Development Programme in Slovenia, which was also adopted by the National Assembly, the country had to increase the share of these state forests because of its public interest. For this reason, the Government proposes a preliminary right of the State to transport forest complexes of more than 30 hectares. The amendment of the law will allow free entry into the forest, which means, of course, that we can walk freely in the forest in the future. The owner of the forest does not need to be allowed free access to the forest only in cases of gainful tourism or gainful recreational activities. According to the law in force, bicycle rides are allowed only on forest roads. The Law will allow cycling and hedgehogs on marked forest trains and other routes in the future. In the future, recreational mushrooms and other forest fruits will also be available. Due to increasing pressure and activities in the forest that affect the forest as an ecosystem, the amendment of the law proposes that the Institute for Forests, which has an organised public economic service, be empowered to exercise control over those activities. With regard to the appointment of district directors of forest offices, we stress that the change in the appointment procedure of the head of regional units does not in any way constitute centralisation, as local interests can be established within the framework of the councils of regional units. In accordance with Article 64 of the Law on Forests, the Council of the Regions has different tasks. It consists of representatives of owners, representatives of hunting, agriculture, nature and protection of natural and cultural heritage and, of course, founders of local communities. For this reason, we can argue that local interests can also be established in the framework of the Council of Area Units in the future. Pursuant to Article 65 of the current law, the head of the regional unit shall conduct the work and business of the regional unit and shall be responsible for the professionality of its work. This means that it is a professional and not a politically or locally connected function. The amendment also regulates support for the integration of forest owners and the establishment of machinery circles in the field of forestry and prohibits the division of forest plots less than 5 hectares. It also brings together forestry and fisheries management plans in common strategic plans. In order to ensure the impartial performance of public service tasks, it is prohibited for employees of the institution to engage in gainful activities. At the meeting, the government also proposed a series of supplements that will remove or reduce some bureaucratic obstacles to forest owners in management. For all of this, the proposed amendments and amendments to the law will certainly contribute to more effective forest protection, management and, at the same time, contribute to the conservation and development of the Slovenian countryside. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Therefore, we suggest that you also confirm the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u71	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, again. The adoption of the Forest Act in 1993 formally initiated the reorganisation until then of a unified system of forest management. Forest holdings have created forestry companies that have taken over most of the works in state forests. On the other hand, we have received the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, which manages the management and management of state forests, and of course we have also somehow reorganised the Institute for Forests, which performs the management function throughout the forest area. In addition to these institutions, we also have a Chamber of Agriculture and Economy, which wants to justify its existence by taking on certain tasks in forest management and management. In short, many institutions that see their existence and existence in the forests, which somehow means that in Slovenia we still do not have a comprehensive and long-term management system, especially with state forests. In the future, however, the forest itself will only acquire meaning, so that the forest area will certainly be subject to the requirements of such environmental policy and the conservation of natural forests, the desires and rights of forest owners for the benefit of the cut wood, intensive hunting activities, agricultural policy requirements, tourism-recreational activities and others that will have an interest in forest space. So, year after year, conflicts of interest will be sharper, and all these interests will also need to be followed by legislation. The proposed law or amendments to the forest law provide some solutions. We believe that some are already quite close to what we need, but some still deviate from what we really need in Slovenia. If we touch on the promotion of the integration of forest owners, which is governed by this proposal for amendments to the forest law, we can see that another form of an organisation is emerging that will try to further engage in forest management. We believe that this issue should, however, be cleared within the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, which already brings together landowners and forests and is in fact unnecessary. However, this law also brings this form, and we believe that this will also lead to some further confusion, particularly in the function of the chamber and in the function of this association of forest owners. In the construction of the buildings, this law attempts or attempts to intervene decisively at the very beginning not only in the municipal spatial plan, where the building space is defined and also for agricultural and forestry purposes. It was intended or intended by the applicant to give consent in the spatial implementation plans of the Institute of Forests. This has, in our view, been too much of an intervention in the rights of local communities and, with additions, is still a favorite solution, so that the Institute of Forests will actually be able to give its views on these interventions, so that it can also say that the intervention into an area permitted to build will not be too much of an impact on the continued existence of the forest ecosystem. We believe that it is also a somewhat inconvenient combination of hunting and forestry plans, as some species of game do not live in the forest and it is difficult to integrate them into the forest management plan. Thus we will probably get some new open questions here too with a new solution. With regard to the prohibition on the employment of forest workers by the activity of forest management and the marketing of timber, one of the issues to be addressed is certainly one of the issues to be addressed, and we believe that this bill is also an appropriate solution. We also believe that the preferred purchase of a country in the purchase of forest complexes is an appropriate solution, as the volume of state forests is decreasing in Slovenia. We are somewhere 20% and this is also somewhere between the smallest state complex compared to the other countries within the European Union. All other countries have substantially more state forests than Slovenia has now. With regard to solutions relating to restrictions on forest events and the use of forest roads, we believe that this issue is still somewhat unresolved. While the Ministry is trying to respond to the fact that it is of great interest, that as many people as possible are associated and moving in the forest, but whether these solutions are sufficiently well cleaned up, we believe that this is probably not the case at this time and that there will be some future conflicts here too. Above all, we would like to avoid the establishment of a mechanism that will prevent access to the forest and thus somehow alienate the very large area of Slovenia from the inhabitants and also the needs of the inhabitants. With regard to the organisation of the service at the Institute for Forests, there are two important solutions: one related to the so-called nature protection service within the Slovenian Institute for Forests. This means that employees at the Slovenian Institute of Forests were not only professional workers in the field of forestry and advice to users in the forest, but will also become some kind of restrictive body, which will also be able to punish and prevent certain activities in the forest. These two issues are extremely difficult, sometimes even mutually exclusive, so that the introduction of this additional task at the Institute of Forests, in our view, will require a great deal of effort and effort to clear up among the employees themselves in the Institute of Forests, what would be and who would be the most appropriate to bring together both functions or to separate a nature-protection or supervisory function from counseling or professional work in the forest. This will be one of the tasks that will certainly depend heavily on who will lead and how will lead the Slovenian Institute of Forests. In addition, the Director of the Slovenian Institute for Forests will have a great deal of authority, as he will be able to appoint and resolve the leaders of the regional units himself. This is a very big responsibility and, if there is no professional interest, we will be able to witness a new political intervention in one of the important areas of expertise relating to forest management. In the case of the Social Democrats, we want the management of the Institute for Forests to be truly professional and that this management would be subordinated to the public interest and, above all, to the extremely important long-term impact of forests for equitable and, in particular, sustainable development in Slovenia, because the forest often also represents the possibility of employment in the most remote places from where other capital injections do not reach these areas. Thus, it is also important to manage and operate in the forest area in order to preserve the population, and we have also tried to work together to create a solution that allows concessions to be granted to high-level farmers or farms on difficult farming conditions, so that they can round up their properties and eventually become more economically viable or easier to survive in these difficult situations. We hope that this addition, which we are submitting in this consideration to Article 33, will also be accepted, because in fact we want to stress only that the conditions for obtaining concessions are clear to these high-level farms as well and that any current government or authority will not adapt these criteria to its own measure. This avoids great dissatisfaction and, above all, avoids that this effect actually comes to life in practice and that we do not create problems where they do not actually need to be done. Let us hope that this amendment, which we are proposing as the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats to Article 33, will be adopted, because we believe that it will indeed improve the implementation of this amendment to the Forest Act, which we will support in such a form as it is proposed. However, we are aware that the true story of the management and need of the forest in Slovenia is not yet complete with this change of law and it is likely that in the future a number of solutions will have to be made to make the forest truly an integral part of our lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr Geza Juban will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greeting, Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! After a thorough reflection at the Liberal Democracy Club, we have decided not to support the proposal for amendments to the law. And the reasons are as follows. So far, the law in force is one that actually enables economic and environmental management in forests to be carried out in a consistent manner, especially if this matter is thoroughly implemented and then monitored. The changes that have been made to this law are such that we support them in most ways. A solution that is particularly exposed to allow concessions for farmers in restricted areas of production after the adoption of the amendments to the law, as opposed to the one-year contracts already in place, but for concessions we know that they are much longer - for a 20-year period, under the conditions that apply to concessions. In this way, it is also possible to further develop such farms in a limited production environment. However, we are disturbed by some of the solutions that have not been adopted in the adoption process, notably the two that stand out in these changes. One is a solution that prohibits employees in the Institute of Forests, the so-called incompatibility that has been discussed just now, and the other is, in our opinion, a false statement that the law will have no financial implications. Of course, in the inconsistent implementation of this principle of incompatibility, it may not be possible, but like all public sector workers in the Institute of Forests, due to certain incompatibility, should be properly rewarded, like all others in the public sector. In this part, this matter is not implemented, it is not introduced and, of course, employees will have to exercise their rights in a certain way, which will result in financial consequences, although it is said that they will not. The second part is the responsibility of the Director of the Institute for Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, who will have the right to choose the heads of regional units. We find the matter too centralized and inappropriate. We are therefore disappointed at the move of the Slovenian People's Party, which has submitted a supplement to this law, which duly remedys this matter. And in order to be given the authority of the district unit to finally elect the chairman of its regional unit, the director of the institution shall forward his opinion. This matter has been withdrawn in the process and the remaining solution is what we are talking about, which we estimate is not appropriate. These are the reasons that led us to this decision, the position that I mentioned at the outset that we cannot support the law. However, I welcome the rest of the solutions, but we have decided to do so in weighing one and the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr Aloise Sok will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u76	Mr President, thank you for saying so. A respected minister with co-workers! In New Slovenia we have already said that we will support the law. We will support these changes. I will not list them because I have already been told what they are about, and I would like to touch only two of the changes envisaged. One is that, under the headings'may', high-mountain farmers will be able to obtain larger areas of forests for management in the future through concession, but here we are colliding with one, in the past illogical and for the country's adverse decision. This was, of course, the best Slovenian forests, the so-called state forests, were given in a 20-year concessional relationship to the former GGs under the assumption that they would keep all the employees, all the disabled, and we all know, all the disabled were saved at that time, and they turned themselves into shareholders. And here is the problem that these forests will not be available for high-rise farms until the end of these concession contracts, which is there until 2016, except, of course, those parts that are difficult to access where no one wants to have because of the excessive cost of this concession. That's one thing. But there's nothing you can do about it. The concession contracts are signed and the facts are the same as if the State were to go into retaliation after the dissolution of such concession contracts. Another issue is the pre-emptive right of 30 hectares or for complexes over 30 hectares. Here in this place I would like to say that in New Slovenia we think this is a good solution and we do not see this in any way in a function, as I could hear on the ground by some, if it is a new form of nationalisation. This is certainly not comparable. Nationalization was, we all know, a free seizure. In fact, this is something where the State has opened up an opportunity at a certain point in time, if it has an interest, to decide on the preliminary right to purchase; of course, at a price previously determined through the evaluator through an expert of the relevant profession. And even so, it is not necessary for a country and a seller to meet on some segment, for the seller can at any time change his mind and, of course, not sell his complex. We, in Novi Slovenija, especially see this as a function of border belt protection, and then possibly also some other attractive locations or in the function of increasing protection forests. Everything else remains, more or less, with some minor corrections, the same. We also very much welcome this solution that workers who are employed at the Forestry Institute will no longer have the opportunity to engage in trade in timber at the same time as they are in the public service. This is also one decision that has been made in the past and that has obviously been very appropriate for some who are sitting in this house as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister with the co-workers. The 1993 Forest Act regulated the protection, cultivation, exploitation and use of forests and the management of forests as a natural resource with the aim of ensuring sustainable development, sonar and multi-purpose management in accordance with the principles of environmental protection and natural values, the sustainable and optimal functioning of the forest as an ecosystem and the fulfilment of their functions. The law was subsequently amended to comply with European Community law. As the ownership structure of Slovenian forests continues to change considerably, where private forest holdings are on average still small, as they amount to only 2.6 hectares, and because private forests are difficult to manage or the owners' interest in forest management is reduced, there is a need for further changes and additions to the Forest Act. Forests are an important factor in rural development, as they are a source of wood and other goods and offer the opportunity to develop tourism and recreation. It is noted that only 60% of wood is cut on average in private forests, which can be cut with forest management plans. This derogation is mainly due to the excessive costs of forest management resulting from the low density of forest roads and the high costs of cutting and harvesting and the fragmentation of property. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support a proposal that foresees a pooling of owners, because we believe that this will certainly contribute to better organisation, more efficient forest management and better marketing. Normal forest management will also allow for the prohibition of the sharing of forest plots. We also believe that changes in the priority purchase of forest complexes, greater than 30 hectares, will help to increase the share of state forests, thus achieving public interest, also mentioned in the forest development programme in Slovenia. We also support the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group's amendment of the law because a proposal to amend the law will give the Law to the Institute of Forests the legal basis for giving consent to the construction of simple buildings in the forest. Although we are not satisfied with all the solutions in the Slovenian People's Party, we are determined to support the amendments to the law and thus to vote and uphold the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u80	Respectable present. Slovenia, and so on, still applies to one of the greener countries. Slovenia shall endeavour to achieve synergies, as often as possible, from the outside and from the inside, through this parable. And as I basically said, in the National Party - and I believe that even within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and all those with green color, not only in politics, but also in fact like - we protect what we have and what we can praise, but this time realistically and truly at home and abroad. Slovenia is thus a forest country and it is right to continue to preserve this value of our country. On the other hand, given what some speakers have already said before me, 80% of the forests are owned by private people and it would be difficult to determine whether better owners are private with their forests or better masters of the state, that is, with public forests, then it is right to try to find the divide where the right of an individual to enter a particular forest is restricted. So, on the one hand, we meet with concern for the protection of forests for the future and today and here, on the other hand, we meet with desire and, on the other hand, according to some estimates, the right of individuals to enter and let them be sporting or not also of some individual interest to intervene in this forest. With this address, I must say that we welcome in the National Party and that we will not oppose this law today, which is at the final stage of the parliamentary procedure. It is true, however, that if we wanted to find and find the right line, and if this segment allowing for an intervention for sport purposes in the forest with the consent of three parties, including the local community, it could be said that the arrangement is positive in the sports jargon "at the first ball". Therefore, the local community should also tell its own, as far as individual intervention is concerned, mainly in the field of sports activities or adrenaline. In short, we would like to stress one thing, and I will not say the only thing, but, according to our assessment, the rather frequent thing that is happening in the context of the actual state of forests in our country. And that's accessibility. Among the proponents - that is, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia assures us and claims that private forests will also be open; open to visitors and open to all those who in any way interfere in a positive sense with the said matter. On the other hand, I must say that we have just had a few cases in Maribor and we also have them when the private owner of the forest - and I do not want to expose again, but because the owner is famous, this is the Roman Catholic Church - fenced the forest. And I don't think that's right. It is true that a stricter regime is being implemented to prevent negative interference with natural wealth, but the fence is not right. And with this title, as I have already said, we will not oppose this law in the National Party, but we would also like to see its full implementation in the field of supervisory role, but perhaps the Inspector or the State in a broader sense; so that the rights of forest visitors should not be exploited on the one hand, as I have said before, through extreme athletes or adrenaline sports, on the other hand, so that there should be no obstruction and elimination of citizens and citizens, or they should be restricted in the area of 80% of forests, as far as we have in our own country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u82	Thank you very much, President. At the last decision, the DeSUS Group supported this law, and there is no reason from then until now that would deter us from re-enlisting our votes for the adoption of these amendments and supplementing the Law on Forests. However, it is only right that perhaps we should repeat some things again. In the history of Slovenian forests, fate has not always been pleasant. Those who know at least part of the history of behaviour, management of Slovenian forests, know that forests in Slovenia have often been exposed to overexploitation, that they were often exhausted and that it took a very long time for the forest to return to condition. Let me remind you that then, about half a century ago, a period was established which ensured a relatively good restoration of forests in Slovenia, but 20 years ago was Slovenian forest, Slovenian forestry profession and science again at impact. At that time, it was at the stroke of one of the new Slovenian political entities, which today also has an heir in this Parliament. I am thinking about the experiments that sounded in our ears at the time in terms of the demands for a moratorium, in terms of the demands on how to make forest ownership more important than the profession in the forests, and in this sense how forest experts should not actually go into the forest, except for recreation. Well, today we can look forward to finding that at least most of the forest in Slovenia is in good condition. This could be ensured because the forestry profession and the public forestry service in Slovenia abstained. Since the doctrine that it carried out on the ground was recognised not only with us, but also in the world, but also because individual owners, farmers and those who exploited the forest also had a large share of these doctrines and forestry professions and had relatively good cooperation with it. Today we can talk about this on the basis of, for example, the data that we can read in the resolution on the Slovenian Forest Programme, which will be the next item on the agenda, and we can be sure of this on the basis of empirical data or our own personal experience. It is true that today it is possible to talk about the possibility of seeing again threats to the Slovenian forest. As in the past, at least in our judgment, ownership again favors all other functions in the forests. And we know that the economic exploitation of forests is not the only important function, or far from being the most important function of forests, the most important functions we usually call ecological, conservation, anti-erosis, also aesthetic, recreational and all. And we think it is right that this law retains, preserves, as part of the emphasis on public interest in the forest, in the past, the good done. That is why he is also trying to address some of the weaknesses that we see today in the strong fragmentation of our forest plots, in the excessive presence of many forest owners, who have no other relationship with the forest other than the ownership and potential profit function. And today we can also see that there have been so much new pests, those in the form of uncontrolled hedgehogs on forests, motor vehicles, those that damage forests by collecting forest fruits across all borders or cycling and so on. So, the subscribers received another threat or forest, except for the tentacles, received another threat in today’s environment. [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The bill largely eliminates certain weaknesses and preserves certain weaknesses or causes them to be new, such as those that take up the function of managing and reducing them to purely professional functions, which they are not. They're not clean, they're just experts. We will support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Sušnik has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, representatives of the government! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food reflects the particular concern of this Ministry of Forest as the most important and widespread ecosystem in the Republic of Slovenia. 130, 140 years ago, in the second half of the 19th century, we had about 750,000 hectares of forests in Slovenia. The forest has practically doubled to this day, a million 200 and a few thousand hectares of forests covering our country, representing almost two thirds of the total area. As a result, concern for forests and the way we regulate, consume and stay in two-thirds of our country is highlighted. The Basic Law, adopted in 1993, laid good foundations for the comprehensive treatment of forests as a single system with all its components. At the time of the adoption of this Act, however, the need for amendments covered by this proposal of the Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests appeared. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that these legislative changes fully respond to the challenges posed by the increased conflict between forest owners and other users of this area. I think that the greatest value of this law is to redefine free access to the forest as permanent goods and as a value pursued by the proposer, even when adopting other legislation. Here I would like to remind you of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting, which is another such law that is under consideration in this National Assembly, which also regulates the regime in the forest as our largest living ecosystem. As the highest value, we expose the Slovenian Democratic Party to free access to the Slovenian forest and free access to the collection industry in a normally regulated and properly regulated form. This is the value that prevails over the interests of the owners, which is above the economic interest after the exploitation of the forest. We are certainly also solving all the modern conflicts that occur by entering the forest and wishing for various forms of recreation, and we welcome the solutions that the law brings in terms of banning all harmful forms of various recreation, from cycling to the use of motor and other means of transport in the forest. However, as far as organised forms of this take place, welcome is the proposed solution, which foresees that the event, the organisation of such events, is possible in accordance with the arrangement between forest owners, the Institute of Forests as the supervisory institution envisaged by law and the local community, this is the municipality. In this way, the implementation of public events and meetings in forests is acceptable and acceptable and is one of the forms of the so-called multifunctional use of forests. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, on the other hand, we also support the trend that is reflected in the law, the tendency to increase the economic use of forests, both for the use of wood and raw materials and for energy purposes. The data that we cut just over 3 million cubic metres from the annual growth of 7 and several million cubic metres, calling for measures to increase the economic use of forests. It is unacceptable to allow this kind of economic damage resulting from the ageing of forest structures. This is certainly limited by the accessibility of forests, and appropriate regulation brings the legal novelties that we are considering today at third reading, with regard to the removal of administrative barriers to the construction of forest roads. There are some other solutions that we welcome in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which will make us happy to support this marriage novel. However, I cannot help but mention the possibility of granting concessions for the management of state forest farms in a restricted area. This is a solution which, in our view, will significantly strengthen the economic power of farms in areas with limited factors, mountain, high-mountain farms, and which represents a new perspective in and in the field of the exploitation of state forests. I expect that efforts will also be made in this direction to explore the possibility of revising the concession contracts concluded and that more than 5,000 hectares, as currently available, could be given to more Slovenian forests before 2016, as mentioned, to our farmer as the holder of rural development. Certainly welcome is this written solution that the country has a prior right to transport in the purchase of forest complexes of more than 30 hectares. The share of state forests is relatively low, with a total of 20% of the forests owned by the state, and in increasing or increasing the share of state forests this has set a useful tool for achieving this goal. In the context of the simultaneous adoption of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting, or amendments to the Law on Wildlife and Hunting, it would also establish a useful or reasonable solution, which is reflected in the common forest and hunting plans, which will address the imbalances and disagreements that have arisen in the separate planning so far. The Forest Department is responsible for serving its purpose. An important institution, which must also be cohesively guided. From this point of view, we also welcome the proposed solution to the law, which in no way limits the Director in the performance of his business functions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. Mr. Stane Pike has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. We have heard quite a few encouraging words about this law. I also fully support him, and I think he was needed. And this from multiple angles, and I'm going to try to tell you why. As we have already heard, Slovenia is a very forested country. This means that many Slovenia is covered with forest and therefore this forest needs to be handled responsibly. In order to act responsibly, we are in charge of both the Government and us Members, to make a good law and to improve this law, which is now in force, so that it becomes even more operational and that once it becomes more operational, the forest also gets something. In general, I would say that the owner of the forest, whether it is a country or a natural person, a farmer, has long interests and these interests are consistent with the forest. The interests of the owner and the interest of the forest must be consistent over the long term. This means that the owner exploits the forest to the limit of maximum earnings, but does not harm the ecosystem. This ecosystem needs to stay essentially better, remain our craftsmen in a better condition than we have received. That's the point of good governance. In the forest it is as in the field, by reaching into the forest once, twice every ten years, but in the field it is necessary several times. Only this time period is longer, but otherwise the forest must also be managed. A lot of people don't know that. And that's why we have some forests a little neglected. They are also neglected because the ownership structure is very fragmented. For these forests, it is right to arrange for them to be given greater attention in exploiting, exploiting and even managing these areas, so that society also has some of them. We've been talking about renewables lately. Very important words fall around this and the forest in Slovenia offers huge reserves in this area, both for industry and for energy. In the world, we are getting more and more familiar with the fact that climate change is on the threshold and they are actually entering slowly, but they are entering. We Slovenians are fortunate to have a lot of forests and that we will be able to compensate for a lot of fossil fuels also in the forest and that we may be able to survive this crisis significantly more easily. From this point of view, it is also important that this law regulates forests and regulates the work in this field. Over time, the attitude towards the forest is changing: initially, perhaps centuries ago it was exclusively economic. Over time, the more we go to modern society, the more we look at the forest from an ecological point of view. Of course, it is necessary to get the optimism here on the one hand that it is still economic and on the other hand it is also optimal to take an ecological view of the forest. Therefore, it is necessary to have a good job, a well - mannered forest office, and we contribute to this by means of this law. We give more powers to farmers, and we also give forests ecologically to manage or control forests. I think that's a good thing about this marriage and that progress is from previous laws. Substantial progress! Of course, I also support the fact that the name of the Slovenian High-mountain farmer will be some of the state forests, especially in the areas mentioned for management, because it is the hardest to earn money there. However, this is part of the Slovenian countryside and we must preserve it from a strategic point of view: to stay settled, so that the landscape does not change too much. Who better to take care of this as a Slovenian farmer? I think there is also tremendous progress in this law to allow, over time, when these concession contracts are released in one way or another, for a high-rise or high-rise farmer to have a certain area to manage it more easily. This also seems to me to be such a vital part of this marriage. It is also right that foresters plan to fire to be involved in fishing, as only in this way can the ecosystem be managed. I think these are the most basic things, and, of course, the law as it is, I support. I think that the law must be operational and this law will also be operational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloise Posedel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. In our Group of Members, we are indeed very pleased with this proposal of the Law on Forests. We are aware of the importance of the attitude towards the environment, we are aware of the importance of nature, especially the importance of the forest as such, so we are pleased that the Government has come up with this proposal, which largely and in many areas governs matters for which it is right to be regulated. We welcome and look forward to these aspirations, which are most important for the majority or for all citizens and citizens, it is said that this possibility of free entry, of course it also emerges from the forest, that it is well wanted to regulate forest management: from wood management to the collection of mushrooms, forest fruits and that it can also be used as a system for other areas; it is said to: recreation, walks, cycling, hedgehogs and other recreational activities, and that all of this is controlled and regulated in this way. These are the good sides that are exposed in the law and that I believe are important for all of us, who are just given this forest to us in certain governance and which we must leave to the experts, or even improve it before that. That is why we expect the Government to approach the development of a comprehensive programme for forest management and use in particular from this nature-protection point of view, and that there is still some important activity in this area that we have considered at the previous meeting and the home committee, namely, fisheries and forest management. This law is withdrawn at a certain point before the vote and I am sure that there is a high probability or at least a desire that the proposed solutions will be such that they are appropriate and will also allow this law to be suitable for the Slovenian state and especially for those who care for the Slovenian forest. We also welcome the good solutions that are in bringing together parcels to allow for the country's pre-emptive rights in large complexes. It is also a particularly welcome and well-intentioned provision and the possibility for high-mountain farms to be granted a concession. In doing so, it is very important that an amendment or supplement be adopted, which is given, that the conditions for granting this concession be clear, transparent, publicly known and that in this way concessions would be granted to those and in the manner appropriate. The only thing that really will prevent us from supporting this law in the Group of Members is the way that governs the appointment of heads of regional units. I think that this solution is clearly weak, that in the debate itself there were many valid reasons why, although today the honourable Mr Minister said that the work of the Head of the Regional Unit was professional work, that its function was professional, that it was not a political function. However, the danger of this law and the solution in this law is that the appointment of heads of regional units can be politically. And that's the fear where it's a shame that the Slovenian People's Party or colleagues changed their minds at a meeting of the parental committee when they had already written such a good amendment, where in fact only one word played a role - instead of "consent" would be written "consent" and the matter would then be acceptable. Both sides and all those involved would have the opportunity to really set up and obtain such leaders of the exhibition as we wish or as appropriate. In this way, however, it is not said that otherwise there will be, but in this way it is feared that the appointment and resolution of the leaders of the regional units will be political. I think it's a great shame that this thing didn't want to be set up. It's a shame to say at the next session how sorry some people are that they've withdrawn it because that would be a good solution. In this way, it remains an option that I think is poor, and therefore the Group of Members is indeed this law, although we repeat that many matters are well resolved, that there are also well-set for further changes in forest legislation, that this part, which is still very important, that these regional units will also work well with the local community, have done well with all those working at the local level, too, at this point left to what may also be the result of the fact that if you are a snake, you are also afraid of twisted ropes. This method of appointment can be very political and this is a bad solution and we will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Chairman. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I am very pleased that in Slovenia there is an increasing awareness of the importance of forests from an environmental, social and economic point of view, and thank God that this is so and that we will also somehow feel this in this parliamentary debate today, that this is extremely important. It also seems important to me that this environmental aspect of forests in Slovenia, important for maintaining ecological balance in nature and preserving diversity between animal and plant species, is as deeply aware as citizens as well as politicians. Also with regard to the economic aspect - we know that the economic aspect is a fundamental asset and a source of livelihood for many people, especially the small man we call a Slovenian farmer, who persists and believes that he will persist in this Slovenian space for a long time. And here we see how very important this element is that with these forests, which he somehow gave to many farmers, that the end of the end of the "touch" this life in the countryside, especially in those hilly mountain areas. All these positive elements of this novel forest law of course give, and we Slovenians can indeed be justly proud of our forests, which we have well preserved, in my opinion, and that we are not finally trying to manage them as successfully and responsibly as possible. Whether we do this or not, of course, we can judge by regions or by individual congregations, and therefore, more or less. The law, according to my assessment, as some of the predecessors have already said, brings some positive steps. The ministry has also taken positive steps through its procedures - as mentioned earlier today in mountain farms. This economic power can slightly improve the lives of those already living on mountain farms. This priority right is certainly a positive step and the pre-emptive right is likely to be an advantage that certain players will take advantage of. We all know that over 80% of Slovenian forests are already in private hands, that property is sacred to me, it was and will be, and I have no problems with it, but I also know that it seems important to me to tell the public and our citizens about free access to the forest. This is an extremely important message. It seems to me that regardless of the sanctity, the property of the forests, our citizens in such and different forms can go through these forests, let it be a hedgehog, cycling, if you want, walking, gathering and so on. I think it's very important to say that there won't be any boundaries here. And let this be a little bit of thought in the context of the law on hunting and game, which we have already talked about, even in this Parliament. It is necessary to make it clear how and what. It's also good that you're a minister that you're this thing - I'll say "fush" at home: you're working as an expert in the world this morning, and you're "bowling" in the middle of the afternoon anyway. It's unhygienic because it's two things that I don't think go together into the same channel. And to sort it out somehow, I'm just saying hello. And you decide whether you're gonna be there or here doing these things in the good woods, if you want, traffic, management and so on. Assembling forest owners - I think this is a positive step. Why? Globalisation is at every turn, one way or another, on agriculture, the economy and so on. This should have positive effects, certainly: organisation, management, marketing. This small forest owner, one farmer, if you want, can't even succeed, doesn't have knowledge, experience, connection and so on. In this context, I see one step forward, if it is able to connect, combine with such or other, it can achieve a better, eventually also a selling price. It's a positive step, for sure. As far as the profession is concerned, I don't have any problems here, I'm taking these things now, I think it's professional at home here, it has a perspective, and this control, which will somehow take place over these forests, seems quite appropriate, meaningful. Of course, there will be a lot of work, because we also have such or different interventions in the woods - I will also say some modern sports and recreation, such as motor sleigh, quadricycles and so on, which is already quite the case. How this control will be carried out in practice, in life, on the ground, is difficult to imagine, but some elements are set in a direction. I'm sure that what my predecessor was talking about, even in coalition and in general, you're negotiating with every law, you're looking for optimal solutions, you want to put what's best as a parliamentary group, or you want to get into some kind of marriage. However, when a person weighs such and different options and, of course, if you don't get optimal support somewhere, you also have to get away with it, with your head doesn't go through and it hurts a little. However, I do think that the appointment is a director as a director, if I put it a little bit at the local level as mayor. The mayor sets up the heads of the units of the municipality and, of course, the mayor also deposits accounts - every four years in direct elections. And if this mayor has misconfigured his main players, then I'm sure he'll be out of his mandate. There may be a similar thesis, as it was, but the thesis that we were defending at the time may have been even better. But since there was no broad support, we have given this authority to the leader who will lead it at the level of the Republic of Slovenia; he will carry a great deal of responsibility and charge here if you want politics. However, the local community is in any case part of that segment in the local space, which has a certain word, a certain weight and will also be able to apply from this place. I only hope that this law will go into life as soon as possible, that it will bring these effects and that our Slovenian pearls, which the forests will certainly use, I repeat, today, all citizens, regardless of the property of these forests, will take care of the professional public, and that the owners will be well organized to manage and preserve these forests in the best way possible for one another and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. In my second reading, I pointed out that marriage as a whole was good, but I had reservations about the appointment of heads of regional units, and I still have these reservations today. I think the rule of law at this point is pretty weak. Otherwise, in the last month, I have spoken to some high-level, hilly Korean farmers who welcome this law in that article, which says that mountain and hill farms are allowed with limited opportunities the right to a concession for the exploitation of state-owned forests. This is an extremely important step for the conservation and development of rural areas, including the rural region of Korea. In Koroška, there are about 30 such farms known to date, more or less than more, and such a law, such concessions would allow them to survive in these difficult economic conditions and, on the other hand, to keep this rural area inhabited. And these are farmers and farms that in the past did not have much in this country, unlike some socialist towers in Koroška, which have privilegedly and with state money regulated their farms. This is certainly one of the better laws of this government, this coalition, which does not talk about ecological and degraded areas and destroyed forests. Of course, there is another legislation, and we will have to think about that in the future. In fact, in Koroška we also have, in addition to these high-mountain and hill farmers, areas, farms that have been degraded in the past due to the processing of lead and zinc. In 1928, Matvoz got the first ecological justice in the country. At that time, it was found that the sulphur dioxide content in the needles was very high and that the forest around the smelter collapsed. And this is also a milestone in the modern decline of forests in Slovenia. Indeed, the image is much better today in the valley of Meží, and this area is very green, but the consequences of the past remain, and these consequences of the past will still have to be rectified today. Some farmers on the farms of Šumah nad Črno or Kabol in Javor have a forest partially or completely destroyed and management in these forests is disabled. And these farms should receive some compensation, whether it be rent, compensation or whatever it is already called, for this lost timber mass, because on the other hand it pays for these forest areas also taxes, or also for those farmers who are in this ecologically affected area, to enable concessions or leases of forests. Perhaps something will also be done with the programme of the comprehensive rehabilitation of the Upper Mežiški Valley, which is in inter-resortmental coordination, and will also be discussed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In short, the marriage is completely good and I will support it as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary! I also believe that the basic intentions of the proposed law are going in the right direction and that these amendments to the law somehow normalize the attitude towards forests, to forest owners, and I think this is extremely important for Slovenian society. As we speak of the normalization of this relationship, it must be said that in the past, in the previous regime, they were larger owners, but not very large, also marked as ideological class opponents, and some of this stigma has lingered today. However, in the previous system, the farmer, especially the lowland farmer, was absolutely not the master of his forests. Forest management belonged to forest economies, and from the income of forest holdings, which attracted at least 90% of the revenue from wood, important levers of the former regime were fed. However, it is right that the forest retains all the meanings it holds for society and for the farmer, namely the economic aspect, the social aspect, the environmental aspect, the care to preserve the natural and cultural landscape. It is therefore very right that the solutions set out in Article 47 - Priority rights in granting a concession for the management of state forests - are so regulated. I must say that I will not agree with the amendment that tries to limit it there, but in my personal opinion this should apply universally, even to a low-income farmer, because no one will convince me that there is a better forest manager and a better guard, a better resident, a better keeper of Slovenian territory, a better environmentalist, a better guardian for natural and cultural landscapes than a Slovenian farmer. And if it has not been recognized in many years, in the past, or has been deliberately destroyed in Slovenian society, this value must be returned to it and maintained by as many farmers as possible, thereby maintaining the population - even less accessible areas - and giving more. In the future, it will be necessary to consider how to interest the forest management farmer, in fact, that the natural forest management operator, the forest managers, comes from its centuries-old tradition, not that they have today, or that, at the time of previous rule, they now have the full advantage of the "instant" forest managers and owners who have drawn their benefits from the privileged position in the previous system. I also believe that it is right to introduce a competitive clause in the field of trade in forest products, or to look at this through the law of the Member State, the incompatibilities of certain functions, because of the emergence of amphibians, the emergence of abnormal situations, the fact that they have one internal information and priority access to certain information. And that only leads to bad consequences. So, I believe that the law needs to be supported and that it should start to work in a positive direction in Slovenian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. In New Slovenia, as we say, we will support this amendment of the law. I think it brings some good solutions, but it is important for the public to say that this novel does not open up the storehouse or that it closes the forest as some people today like to refer to. This has already been regulated by the previous law and remains as it was. However, we welcome some of the solutions brought by this novel, which is, for example, also this article, which says that they have the right of priority in the award of concessions for the exploitation of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia, mountain farms, high mountain farms, farms farming in these difficult areas, and they are now expected to have an advantage over others. It is often observed or heard from the ground that some farms, not some, are difficult to live in these areas. This gives them essentially some kind of opportunity to generate income, and we welcome that. However, I hope that with the new amendment, the rules will also be those that will not restrict or put obstacles to these farms and that they will indeed reach the forest of the farm they need. We also welcome this solution that workers in public services have in fact this competitive clause that they do not engage in economic activity. Just about a week ago, I was at the farm-house district office and some members were just protesting or expressing dissatisfaction that a forest worker would rather do his work than advise farmers. In this direction, I think it's a good solution. A good solution may also be to remove certain administrative obstacles, so that, of course, the farmer can, in agreement with the Institute for Forests, half a hectare of forest areas can be cut down and converted to agricultural land. In particular, this is good where already small agricultural areas are rounded up or increased. This is essentially the news we welcome in New Slovenia and that is why we support this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary and a co-worker. Football, politics, and forests are obviously understood in this country, and it is possible, as little as a joke, not so bad. About this meaning of Slovenian forests no doubt they are already learning in primary school and that is true, the fact is also that we Slovenians have always lived with the forest and that we have been good masters. Of course, over time, many things are changing, and it is therefore right that, from 1999 until now, eight or nine years later, the amendment of this law will also take place and respond to modern challenges. Undoubtedly, the positive change in this law is that farmers in mountain areas are allowed to have wider governance even with state forests, and there is nothing wrong with this claim and this acceptance for all is also enhanced by the amendment prepared by the Social Democrats to make the story more appropriate and make it more precise for us, as is the case with many laws, otherwise good intentions and good laws do not spoil those who seek loopholes in laws. There is no doubt that forests must also adapt to the modern challenge of time, on the one hand, that urbanisation is increasing, and that forests are also a haven for all those who, in addition to economic activities, are also looking for recreation. However, in doing so, I think we should limit them even more, especially from the elementary school onward, so that in nature and in the forests there is no harm in living with the forest, as our predecessors used to live, if I say generations back or even those who are now saying goodbye. Without a doubt, the forest road was an important asset. In the countryside, we meet people who remove a branch, a stone, and garbage and take it home from a forest path. Of course, today our children we raise are small and small. Finally, the forest is also a safe and peaceful home for the game. We had, I must say, a heated debate about the Wildlife and Hunting Act. The marriage didn't go through, and I'm happy about it. We have taken the time for further discussions, and I am sure that we can move the story forward in such a way that the management of the forest and the wild is in the long run to put public interest ahead of the private interest. We also talk a lot about transportability and accessibility of forests. I support solutions that advocate that the forest should be accessible to everyone and at any time on foot, and far from being accessible by car, motor dream, motocross engines and so on. However, solutions should be sought to ensure that certain areas of forests, where everything is still as it was created centuries ago, are protected, and that these activities, which undoubtedly bring unrest to forests, focus on those peripheral places that are close to cities and dwellings. For example, for cycling routes and also for occasional controlled motor rides today near our settlements and dwellings there is no more space and city, on the one hand due to environmental pollution with noise, on the other hand, a conflict of interest. And, let's say, if a piece or some kind of forest heist with a certain system that establishes order, just hours, or certain days, were to do so, then I think there would be more peace where the wilderness and the intransit is. It will be easy for a person to spread the cultural landscape where there is more space in the forest. We have talked a lot about forest management and exploitation. The fact is that the forest used to be a bigger economic motive for farmers and forest owners than it is today. Even if we look at today’s forests: all that they once used and picked up as tree varieties, many of these today lie with crosses. And here we all have a long-term task together to do more order to stimulate the use and use of wood biomass, on the one hand in the field of extraction, and on the other hand these ovens, which are quality, good and, above all, ecological, cost very much. And one of the tasks of the state would be to stimulate biomass smoking, on the one hand with simpler rules and on the other hand with subsidies to do so no doubt more. We have also talked about how much wood ends in the Slovenian processing industry and how much abroad. In the meantime, I have noticed this moment of public awareness that Slovenian wood is the best wood for Slovenia. I must say that when I see in many magazines how they promote African tic and other similar wood, we are talking about Siberian cedars and Scandinavian pines. I am convinced that Slovenians have at home a number of types of wood that can be used for various purposes. We must be proud of this and take advantage of it, without a doubt, that we take advantage of what we have in our home, indigenously, to the greatest extent possible, and are proud of it. The law will undoubtedly receive the majority support of the National Assembly. In the LDS Group, we oppose him because of a single tiny stone, but the end of the plot for which I want him to be positive will not affect him; but we are disturbed by the fact that the staffing is central, that it is also subject to politics. I am sure that in many Slovenian provinces we have many experts in sacred institutions, there are representatives of forest owners, representatives of local communities, founders, hunting, protection of natural and cultural heritage, all from the local environment. I must say that with us in Gorenjska or from the Tržič municipality from which I come from, we are able to provide all these quality personnel that will not succumb to political pressure at home. We are confident that those who were in these woods, some, I will say, begin, others born, others live there, that they will know best how to serve. And that is why every involvement of policy in this recruitment is simply unnecessary, meaningless and does not work out in the long run. That is why I think that this petty disharmony could yet be rectified and adopted by a good law that will please everyone, and at the same time, as soon as you adopt this law, we will also consider the steps and challenges that await us over the years to open other articles and that forestry as an important topic is constantly being regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudi Veršnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting, Mr. Minister, with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I've spent my youth in a village, and I've heard many times that farmers with axes and saws went to a bank - not into a forest, into a bank. Indeed, the forest in the past meant for the farmer in fact capital or the place where it found itself in the event that he did not have the means of survival. There he cut off a spruce, or he used to walk seven times or ten times, and then he cut it, and so he survived. Today it is no longer so, today it is considered an interest, today it is cut only if it is worth it or if an economy is found. And the forest is a very sensitive eco-system. The use in Slovenia is not yet excessive, as we do not cut our annual growth. However, the trend in terms of agricultural machinery, which is increasingly modern, and the system itself is moving in this direction so that these exploitations may also be stronger, perhaps more harsh. That is why I think it is right that we have changed the 1993 law here in Parliament today. Modified, updated, prepared in such a form as to withstand criticism and even the present time. I would also like to stress and welcome the trends of this law, which on the one hand favour, or better put it, the mountain farmer, that he has the opportunity to obtain concessions for soaking in state forests for a simple reason, because, for the first time, there is no interest in high-mountain farms, additional opportunities for what activities is also small and I think it is right that the farmer should also be given this opportunity. Of course, all recreationals, today’s modern users of recreation will be very pleased with the solution that forest areas can be used for normal walks, normal collection of blueberries and similar berries. Of course, we must not forget that any economic exploitation, if you are not the owner, is strictly prohibited, which I think is right. And if this were to happen, of course, this must only happen in the agreement of all interested parties. It is right that the novel brings simplification for the farmer. We all know that farmers do not want and have no time and are also not professionally qualified for some administrative business, so it is right that the novelty also brings some novelty in this direction, simplification. Also, the possibility of the State's pre-emptive right, I think, is the right direction, that it is right for the State to take action in cases where the State's interest actually arises, to intervene and to become the owner of forest areas. The law or novelty is modern, up - to - date. That's why I don't see any reason not to support her. Of course, I'm a little surprised by my opposition colleagues, who, because of a trifle, as has been said now in my speaker, are not prepared to support this novel, although almost everything they disagree with, due to a slight lack of agreement, I will say that they may have poor experience in 1993, when concessions have been awarded to GGs, and this may disturb them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Chairman. First, Mr. Secretary, a little joke. Today you have an opportunity to expand your knowledge of function, economic roles and forest policy. And I don't want to be insulting to my colleagues. I'm calling for three reasons. I'll only talk about what's on the table and what's in front of us. First, incompatibilities, competitive clauses. We only have a comment because we say "A" is fine, and "B" is missing. What do you do with those we justifiably say, "If you're working for the state money, you can't do anything else." And like all government officials in competitive clauses, they therefore have certain ratings. This is where this is supposed to be resolved. Second of all, we have a lot of concerns about top-down manning. We're not the only ones finding out. Your coalition colleagues have also been identified. And also the amendment was from your coalition colleagues, whom you all, apart from the look of the SDS, agreed with. And our vision is such that it might be good for this matter to be resolved as proposed. But if not, even because of these two solutions, the world will not fail and the law will probably be adopted and there will be no great story here. Thirdly, this matter, as we all stress, is an important contribution of the law to allow concessions in forests for farmers in the mountains or in areas with limited factors. But if we have listened well to Mr Minister when he has given us information on how much this would be in terms of hectares in the next period when this is happening, let us try to see this amendment, if possible, from our colleagues in the SD. It's happening, and there's been a lot of disagreements lately, and that was the story of yesterday that the opposition is proposing, and we're not going to support it. What the president said last time on the board, "You can say whatever you want, we won't support it." Aren't you, Marjetka? What's wrong here? Those who perform the concession must carry it out within their own economy, the farm. Is there something wrong here? However, this is the purpose of this new provision of the law. It must provide the necessary technical means and knowledge. What could be wrong here? To sprinkle a hectare of soil with a sprinkler, you have to have a course and you have to have a inspected device. The woods already have regulations, mag. The director, certain things you have to do. And maybe it's just a minimal addition to that. And that the forests must represent some rounded whole or a maximum of 200 hectares. According to these forecasts, the question is whether we will reach these 200 hectares anywhere. If there are 1,000 hectares in one year, this means that five farms could have some additional area after this formula. Of course, it won't be exactly that way because it's not military division or mathematical. And maybe these definitions are some kind of orientation in advance, because those who allow anything have different visions, always have their good ones, and this may also help the Institute of Forests to better guide themselves to these new changes in the law. Finally, the Ministry prescribes more detailed conditions, but there is a logical consequence. I see no major problem in this amendment, and it might be good to consider accepting it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Excuse me? It's a replica. Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u104	Look, Mr. Geza Juban, you misunderstood me. You said how everything was different in the previous term, how you negotiated how you respected the opposition. Last time I was chairman of the committee, I proposed a decision and it went through the same procedure as you did when you were in the coalition. It was the same procedure, and I don't believe you did anything different than we did. However, as far as the law proposed is concerned, I must say that the applicants themselves did not believe in this option. The threshold for compulsory membership was proposed, while they said it would be good to have an optional membership. And you didn't propose any amendments, even though you wanted to adopt that law. If you intended to improve it, you should either table amendments or give something of yourself - not just say that it would be good, but do nothing. So much for my comment on your performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok, you're giving up. Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. There is a lot of talk in the Forest Act about how we actually manage this large property both in state ownership and in private ownership. And the characteristics of relations in national and private forests are such that the situation in state forests is significantly better than in private. That is why I want to comment somehow on those debaters who are talking about having a bad conscience in Slovenia because we have granted concessions for managing and managing state forests. If, of course, this management had taken place differently than the state forests show today, then I would have understood these indications and, of course, in the actual state of the state forests, as illustrated by the next point, the resolution on the national forest development programme shows them very nicely as one of the most exemplary forests in Europe, we can say. As far as resources from state forests are concerned, it is possible to collect as many resources from the forest as possible and to direct them to a variety of needs. However, there is already a very big problem because too little forest resources are being invested back into the forest. This is one of the major problems that, last but not least, this forest law will not fully solve. There may be a few more solutions at the next point, again in the resolution, but still. Everyone who thinks that it is possible to draw money from state forests, for example, I do not know how much money, and then not to return it back to the forest, is particularly damaging the area in Slovenia where the forest prevails. These funds are now concentrated in Ljubljana, it is the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which was able to buy its own business building, the Ministry of Agriculture, for example, I think it is paying rent for its premises today. And this fund also employs over 100 people, and I think it would be really much more appropriate if this money remained even more rural, to respond even more to those needs in the environment where it comes from. One of the biggest drawbacks is that local community concessions do not receive even the euro to enable them to carry out some of their tasks required by environmental burdens on forest management. That's one of those unresolved issues. However, I also point out this fact once again that we already have too many institutions in Slovenia today that want to deal with only and only forests or, above all, draw as much out of the woods as possible. We have some work to do here in the future to try to rationalise all these services, make them more successful, more efficient, and, above all, less burden the natural environment with all these needs to finance services. One of the biggest outstanding issues is certainly still the maintenance and construction of forest roads. This question is one of those that actually provides an answer to the fact that private forest management can be further improved. And I think that we should also focus our debate largely on this part, whether it is true and why it is really necessary that we do not build enough forest roads in Slovenia, that we do not sustain them enough, that the situation is significantly worse than ever before in history or, above all, when we still have a unique way of managing forests. What these funds are also spraying at the expense of forest roads is worse in forests than it would have been. I hope that, in part, this debate, including the amendment of this law, will give this direction forward. However, I think that the real solution is that we are rationalising as much as possible all those public services that want to live off the forest. The Fund for Agricultural Lands is an institution that is of a transitional nature and is the first one to surely fall under this issue, and I think that developments will have to go this way in order to find, in particular, those surpluses that we urgently need to manage successfully with national and private forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you very much also to all parliamentary groups and Members for their sufficiently broad support for this law. I think that this is a sign that the law has been sufficiently harmonised at work and that it reflects the real needs of the current time in this area. I think that the law also brings enough positive elements to be balanced enough, so that I really think it can receive even greater support. If only I could respond to some of the key reservations mentioned here several times in the debate. With regard to the appointment of the head of the regional units, I would say that the current law, article 65, states that the head of the regional unit is the one who organizes and manages the work and operations of these units and is responsible for the professionality of its work, while article 64 preceding establishes the Council of the regional unit of the institution, in which the local interest is primarily represented. This local interest, however, proposes a work programme for the regional unit, proposes a financial plan for the regional unit and all other major programming issues. Then all of this is discussed and confirmed in the higher hierarchy or in the institution. There is also still the opinion absolutely necessary in this process, so I think there are enough elements to say that this appointment of the head of the regional units is somehow the right balance, while the institution is a single professional organisation, which also needs some opinions in terms of local interest. I would also say, as has been mentioned several times, that the status of the public servants themselves, all of us, is governed by another law and other sectoral laws, and that this cannot be the subject of this law. I would like to say once again that argument, which you yourself know well, that the owner representing his interest and the official representing the public interest are meeting in directing forest management. With this text, we are, in fact, preventing this private interest from becoming intertwined with the public when represented by the employee of the institution. I think it's a good text and it would be worth supporting. However, as I said, the status of civil servants is a completely different matter, and I believe that there are many criticisms about the status of these employees. I don't doubt that. But this is not the subject of this law. As far as access and restraint are concerned, many things have already been said. It has been repeatedly pointed out here that this access is not only being continued, but that it is also further defined for certain things, such as cycling, urchins and so on. I would point out, however, that, although only fences are possible on the basis of the existing law, as defined in Article 24, but in explicitly stated cases which would not be mentioned here. Of course, these are exceptions to the rules. I would also say that you have shown or said in the debate that this is a very important element of this law. In the context of the pooling of owners introduced by this law, this direct increased activity of owners to the country, to the business environment, will also be encouraged. We predict that more wood will also be marketed for further processing of wood or biomass. I assume that this merger will also provide more interest for the rural development programme or for what is linked to forestry in this rural development programme. In this regard, I would like to say that the first call, which was recently issued, is almost completed, is of such great interest in this area. As regards mountain farms, many things have already been said, and I am very glad that there is a consensus on this area. I would also like to mention that, in principle, we do not oppose any more detailed regulation of this matter in this law as well. So much for me. Once again, thank you for the more or less expressed principled support for the positive salaries of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 19.11.2007. I am putting to the debate Article 33 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? Check-in is on. Mr. Aloise Posedel, please. [[The ad in the hall.]] Mr. Posedel, that's how you signed up. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. It was already stated in the introduction that it is important that this article be supplemented today by the fear that there might be a very good proposal for irregularity or some undesirable things. I am therefore convinced that this amendment is good and that it will also be accepted by colleagues from other parliamentary groups. The appointment of a director or leader is again in the final speech, the minister said that this would take place professionally, but in explanation, I said earlier that if you are a snake, you are afraid of ropes, and for every thing called from Ljubljana or from the center, solutions can be bad if the local community is completely excluded. This is where his colleague Janz listed the cases before, but he did not finish with the chiefs of the administrative units. This is a procedure where the sovereign minister determines that the mayors of those municipalities, under which interference belongs in the appointment of the chiefs of administrative units, we get a chief whom we have no influence, without evaluating him for the past work or giving any opinion, let alone consensus. Therefore, it would be good to propose in this work and to settle this matter in this way. Perhaps you do, because colleague Uhanova had previously said that it is not only necessary to criticize, but to suggest, I think there is nothing wrong with it, today it has been resolved that the law is not adopted and is being corrected in that part so that colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party can only arrange this little thing and give the word "consent" again, not "consent". It's a possibility, it's a date, and it's up to you to decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u112	Thank you. With the amendment, we want to improve the content of both this Article 33 and the whole law. The text thus far states that a programme for the conservation of farms and rural areas in the mountain and hilly world with limited management options is prepared by the Minister responsible for agriculture and forestry and adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, in our business regulations, and also in our constitution and laws, we must make it very clear in our laws that we must direct the Minister very clearly in the laws, in order to draw up his sub-legislative acts or decisions in the manner prescribed by the law. That this programme for the development of an individual farm will not only be a programme that will somehow be set up by the Minister himself, it is necessary to add in this Article some clearer criteria which will be binding both on and on all other ministers responsible for this area. Priority in the award of a concession for the exploitation of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia, for these natural persons or farms, may be given if the farm proves that it will carry out the concession within its agricultural holding, subject to the reasonable application of Article 19 of this Law, which also refers to the possibility of being assisted by both legal heirs and neighbours and, ultimately, legal persons who are also registered or qualified for forest work. The farmer or the agricultural holding itself must have the necessary technical means and expertise to carry out the concession. We must not allow ourselves, however, to have someone go into the forest improperly equipped, inadequately trained and, of course, can then tragically end such management, which would mean that we have done nothing in the law, but we can even endanger a particular farm. That is how we think this criterion is particularly vital and also necessary. It's about the whole farm. It is hard to imagine that a farmer from Koroška could go to work in the forest on Kočevsko, or vice versa, so it is only necessary to go around the whole and that this rounded whole is represented by forests in the area of 2,000 hectares. We believe that this is indeed the area that can enable any farm to have real existence and good development both today and in the future. With these clearer criteria, we believe that this article remains feasible. Therefore, also, honourable colleagues and colleagues, we propose to support this addition to Article 33, and, lastly, to facilitate the work of the Minister, the Ministry and the Government, which will have to prepare when preparing a programme for the development of individual farms in these High-mountain areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Chairman. Since, as has already been said from the proposaler, this amendment is life-formal, and that it sets out more precisely certain criteria which I find perfectly meaningful and in place, there is no reason for the Slovenian People's Party's Group not to support this, since it does, however, explain more precisely some of the things the law already provides for and otherwise, and this merely complements additional arguments that it is meaningful to support it. And we'll back him up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u116	Thank you very much. And I must add my thoughts to this when I listen to the explanations of this amendment. But I don't like this amendment as much as I hear it from some of my colleagues. First of all, I don't like this second indent in paragraph 8. I agree that concessional management can only be managed by the one who will manage it to round up to a certain number of hectares, which is perfectly fine. However, to write in the second indent that it must provide all the necessary technical means, it says somewhere in there that the Minister will order this by means of a special decision or regulation is a somewhat empty article. I don't know what "all the necessary technical means" means. We can just make up an axe or go to a machine I don't know. And the other part that says, "he has the expertise to work in the woods." Does this mean that those who are already mastering their forest and will receive another plot from the country in concessional leases, or will then suddenly become unprofessional and will have to acquire, I don't know, at the Institute of Forests or somewhere else probably some other course, some card, somewhere he'll have to pay something to then get another book that he's qualified to do this work. This is only because, in the past, in the mandate of the previous government, we have done such things in this house for dozens when we have actually burdened farmers with various demands. I would like to remind you, representatives of the government, because I have seen the Government support this amendment, to be careful with such matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss it, please? Just Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u118	Thank you. I just want to explain further to my colleague Sok. Article 19 of the Act stipulates that the Minister responsible for forestry shall lay down the minimum conditions to be met by operators in the forest. Of course, I think we all know that in the budget we also provide funds for the education of farmers for the work in the forest. And I think it is important that if we are already investing in this education, that this is also one of the criteria then that we can obtain a concession if these educations are involved. It is true, we can say, an organized approach to someone going into the woods is not going in a way that he is not ready and that he may also experience any discomfort. It is highly likely that if you have the right equipment, if this technical equipment is such as will be explained in all these lectures, then the risk of injury is significantly lower. That's why I think this condition makes sense. So that the Minister will certainly not deviate from these criteria, which he will propose in these trainings. And probably then the ministry will also allow the farm to reach these funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u120	I've said before that we don't object in principle to such an amendment. We understand it in this sense that this must not be far from being an additional obstacle to the exercise of this priority right for farmers, as it would then undermine the purpose of the law. And that, I don't think, is the purpose of this amendment. The word "all" is, of course, out of this text. It is some basic technical means and some minimum knowledge necessary for safety. They are also prescribed in detail in the Minister's regulation, so that I think it should be sufficient to ensure that this concession is then implemented primarily for the benefit of the farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I'm guessing no one wants to discuss it anymore. That is why I conclude the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendment to which we will decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda, in accordance with the meeting. I'm breaking up the agenda with this. We're moving on to 10. Period of the day - on a defensive proposal for a resolution on the National Forest Programme. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Mr. Minister Istok Jarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good-bye! The resolution on the national forest programme is a fundamental strategic document aimed at establishing a national policy for forest management and is important for the conservation and development of these forests in Slovenia. The emphasis in this resolution on the national forest programme is on the following objectives. First time. Increase the exploitation of forest growth production potential. We note that the situation in Slovenia allows for an additional increase in cutting on average up to 75% of the increase. With appropriate structure and selectivity, we can also ensure a higher quality of wood and not just an increase in quantity. In our opinion, the envisaged level of exploitation can also provide future accumulations of wood stocks at a level recognised in Slovenia as a CO2 sink under the Kyoto Protocol. Another time. We want to increase the openness of forests with forest roads. We believe that the economy of forestry production depends largely on the openness of forests. Reducing or reducing costs from the right distances and transport of timber would achieve a greater extent of realisation of all planned works in forests. In addition to increasing openness, an appropriate maintenance system is also important for the efficiency of the forest infrastructure network. We want to develop the market for forest, wood assortments and forest owners by consulting, and we allow higher yields from the forest to be achieved. For all forests, it is necessary to obtain international certificates for sustainable management and to ensure their maintenance, which will be an increasingly frequent condition for international trade in the future. It is imperative to establish a market in wood biomass, as this is an important obstacle to faster biomass use. The organised market will provide users with the possibility of selling and services. We also want to improve the organisation of forest owners. We have already talked a lot about this today in the context of the debate on the law. We want to increase the use of wood and wood products by promoting wood products and their positive contribution to sustainable development. We want to encourage greater use of domestic wood. Particular attention is paid to promoting the use of wood and wood products in public institutions, so that wood will become a leading material in construction and in the residential environment in the near future. Better integration of forestry and wood industry is essential, which must ensure adequate added value for wood from Slovenian forests. We want to ensure a greater share of wood use in the primary energy balance. The use of wood in modern individual and group heating and process heat devices represents one potential or one greater potential for renewable energy in Slovenia. This is why we encourage mainly the consumption of wood which is not suitable for the industrial production of wood, where it is no longer possible to produce products. In particular in rural areas, the marketing of energy in smaller remote heating systems may also constitute an important additional activity of the farm. We also want to increase the scope of activities using wood, especially in rural areas. In promoting the economic role of forests and rural development, it is essential to invest in knowledge that will lead to greater innovation and entrepreneurship. Of course, the contribution of this resolution is also important. The implementation of those objectives will undoubtedly also be supported by the implementation of the 2007-2013 rural development programme. As part of this year's call for action to increase the economic value of forests from the rural development programme, investments in the construction and reconstruction of forest roads and forest trains and the preparation of forest trains will be supported, as well as investments in the purchase of new mechanisms, new cutting equipment and wood harvesting equipment aimed at increasing production potential. For this reason, we believe that the national forest programme can be the basis for sustainable co- and multi-purpose forest management in the future, and I propose that you support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I ask President Marjetko Uhan to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u124	The draft resolution on the National Forest Programme was discussed by the Committee of the National Assembly on Agriculture, Forestry and Food at its meeting, where representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food participated, the Legislative and Legal Service, the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber and the Union of Farmers of Slovenia participated. We have also received a written opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the resolution. Amendments to the coalition were tabled mainly to the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service. The representative of the proposer presented or outlined the purpose of the resolution, the main emphasis, the objectives. Since the Minister has already told them to me, I wouldn't say that again. In the general debate that followed, however, the members of the Committee felt that the motion for a resolution was well prepared and was an appropriate basis for forest management. Some felt that it would make sense to deal with the issue of the agricultural land fund and to devote more resources to the regulation of roads or to return the concessions to forests and so on. Most of the time, however, they considered the resolution to be a good one and also supported it. We have adopted four amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups, which mainly follow the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. Such a proposal is before you today, along with these amendments, and we recommend that you accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Sajovic, on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Once again a nice greeting to the Minister with his associates! We will not oppose the resolution on the national forest programme in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, because it is a good work and a good look ahead. But we can say that in certain parts of management and ambition, it could be even more broad and optimistic. Forests are undoubtedly our great natural wealth, which requires careful sonar management. The need for these forests will undoubtedly increase with climate change resulting from heating. To this end, our natural wealth is still in need of a strategic document which must determine the national policy of co-ordination with it and the guidelines for conservation and development and the conditions for their exploitation and use. We would like to point out the desire to increase the exploitation of the production potential of forest habitats, notably by increasing the cut, but only to the limit of 75% of the increase. For the first time, there is also an increase in the use of wood and wood products in construction and living environments, so we strongly welcome the intention to do so by 2005 [[?!]] wood and wood products become one of the leading materials in this field. This objective is also understood as one of the objectives for achieving greater energy efficiency in our country. We reiterate that more needs to be done in the area of awareness of citizens and citizens and that their value system needs to be changed in relation to the forest. The problem in Slovenia is undoubtedly 314 thousand private forest owners. If the ownership structure is so severely fragmented, then planning and management can be limited. And there's a fear that this program will stick somewhere halfway around. Therefore, in our view, private owners should also be significantly more committed to achieving the basic objectives, namely, the development of forests as an ecosystem and a place where biodiversity is preserved, the economic exploitation of forests, and the conservation and enhancement of the role of forests in a healthy environment. And there is no doubt what we always stress, the social aspect and the social development of society. These three objectives are also cited by the National Forest Program itself and are attached to it in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. In particular, they are highlighted because of the fact that the Government, as a proponent with a novelty of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting, is going on in this National Assembly and the general public in the part of this story denies them. We see the greatest disadvantage of this resolution in the fact that it does not deal with the problems of organising forestry as an activity, nor does it deal with any long-term vision of the development of this activity. As a result, the issue of land and forest funds is also quite neglected. How important the fund is, we were able to hear last week when we heard the report. And there's no doubt we still have a few spares there. However, we would like to point out the following as striking things that the Liberal Democracy Club particularly stresses. In line with this, we see the problems of governance with state forests. The first problem is the calculation of the concession fee; the second is that they hire subcontractors for as much profit as possible, although the fund takes into account forest workers who are supposed to be employed by concessionaires in the calculation of costs. There is still no appropriate bidding of the coolant. The actual supervision of the work of the concessionaire needs to be increased and upgraded and, unfortunately, by 40,000 cubic metres of the potential annual level of concessions have not yet been granted. Let us hope that this will be done in the future, so that this wood and natural resources will be better managed. And the reflection that is opening up with the regionalisation of Slovenia will lead to the establishment of landscapes and also the reorganisation of the Fund. The reasons why this was overlooked are unknown to us. But as already mentioned, for the end, we want to, [[...]] [[Warning signal.]] that this programme is even more ambitious and includes a broader forestry sector that has proved to be good in development. [[...]] We expect this to happen, so we do not oppose this programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Ms Marjetka Uhan has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u128	Say good-bye again! The resolution on the national forest programme will be supported in Novi Slovenije. This is a strategic document defining a national policy for forest management, giving guidance for forest conservation and development and the conditions for the exploitation of forests. The basic objective is to sustain the conservation of forests and their functions while at the same time exploiting natural resources with the possibility of recreation, the collection of forest fruits, the cultivation and hunting of game, as well as the economic functions of forests, in particular the use of wood. This resolution is based on laws: the Forest Act, the Wildlife and Hunting Act, as well as other laws and European regulations. As it is said, the resolution is based on the multifunctionality of forests. In New Slovenia, we believe that the social, ecological function of forests is well regulated, but that the economic aspect of forests is not exploited. Since this resolution also places greater emphasis on the economic exploitation of forests, such as larger sequestration, improvement of forest ranges, construction of forest roads, train routes, promotion of the market with wood, promotion of wood quality, education of forest owners, integration of forest owners, as well as promotion of wood and the use of wood in the economy, living environment and greater energy use in the energy sector, or greater energy use of wood. As we say, these guidelines seem good to us, so we will support the resolution in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u130	Mr. President-in-Office. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament. Members of the SLS Group are pleased to see how important forests are both from an environmental, social and economic perspective in Slovenia. In our view, the draft resolution on the national forest programme is well prepared and is an appropriate basis for sound and consistent forest management. The objectives and orientations aim at preserving forests and their roles, while not forgetting the problems of climate change, pollution and economic benefits. It is extremely important for us to highlight the environmental aspect of forests in Slovenia. The forest is important for maintaining ecological balance in nature and maintaining diversity between animal and plant species. We are pleased that the objectives and guidelines in this regard are also covered in more detail in the resolution. The economic aspect of forests is also of great importance, as it provides many with basic earnings and a source of livelihood. The problem of forests and logging, as an important raw material source, has so far not always been adequately regulated, in particular with regard to forest roads that are absolutely lacking, the fragmentation of forest land, inadequate technical equipment and the capacity of forest owners to work in the forest and so on. The resolution sets out guidelines to achieve greater openness of forests with forest roads and also to achieve well-maintained forest roads. It is known that the lack of forest roads is the most common cause of deforestation. Construction of these is therefore essential for good management mainly in private forests. An important objective of the resolution is, in our view, that the use of wood and wood products is increased in construction. This would greatly contribute to rural development, as it deals to the greatest extent with activities that use wood as a basic raw material. As far as private forest owners are concerned, estimated at 314 000 in Slovenia, the resolution focuses on special chapters on the education of forestry personnel, education and training of forest owners, public forestry service and forest control. Many forest owners actually do not know enough about forests, and precisely because of the large number of forest owners and the insufficient number of those who would be educated, accessibility to forest owners is hampered. There is a need to prepare educational programmes for owners, but we also agree on the possibility of awarding educational concessions by monitoring education. Forest owners need to be better organised - only so they can work for the maximum benefit of forests, which is currently difficult, as private forest holdings are quite fragmented. The biggest problem in forest management is also in private forests. There is a need for more effective and inspection in the forests, and this is what the resolution foresees. In the resolution we find many good solutions that are in the best interests of our forests. They focus on environmental protection and the economic exploitation of forests as much as possible. The economic objective itself must not be forgotten about the environmental aspect. In our opinion, the resolution follows well the social and environmental impacts of forests, ensuring that the objectives set are well achieved. Agriculture is an important economic activity and forests are an extremely important eco system that ensures survival for many animal and plant species. The resolution includes all aspects of the importance of our forests, so the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will give their support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u132	Your Honors are here! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or the Ministry of Sectoral Affairs, claims and assures us that the resolution before us today should follow three positive values or objectives. For the first time, as has already been said by many speakers before me, the sustainable development of forests as ecosystems. Indeed, it is probably not a Member or a Member who would object to the purpose of this Act, so we cannot oppose it in the National Party. The second objective pursued by the resolution is the sustainable contribution of forests to the economic development of society. In my opinion, this objective is even the most questionable of all the three objectives to which the resolution weighs, because the fact is that it is difficult to strike a balance between maintaining the ecosystem, the balance between the contribution of the forest to a healthy living environment, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the objective of capital. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as a third objective, defines the sustainable contribution of forests to a healthy living environment and the social development of society. Once again, all three objectives are acceptable, with one falling against the other two. I sincerely hope that the resolution will be a good enough basis for it to follow the implementation or pursuit of all three objectives at once and that no individual objective will be missed. We would, however, like to point out, not for reasons of criticism or not for reasons of opposition, the said resolution, but mainly because of the fear that this resolution will not be enforced in the field of control. The fact is that Slovenia, as I said in the previous law, is still considered a forest country, which, of course, is commendable within the entire dimension. On the other hand, it must be said that this resolution is also conditional on other laws adopted in the National Assembly and in connection with the supervisory role referred to in this Title. We appeal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, according to our assessment, because of the contradiction of the law on hunting and game in relation to the resolution, especially in the part that speaks of attacks by hunters into the areas mentioned, especially those areas, forest areas which represent a private area and which, according to the latest data, are 80% of forests. If denationalisation continues at this rate, this share will increase by an additional 5% and will move to 85%, which means that it will remain in our state ownership, and only 15% will remain in total. And the fact is that control in this part of the forest, which represents the "public forest", in the nicknames, is inappropriately better than the control being carried out or to be carried out after the so-called private forests. If we view Slovenia as an open society, because the fact is that it would be right for our country to adopt behaviour about negative family trends abroad. From this title, it is important to note the fear that can take place in Croatia, where private landowners or, I apologize, forests were allowed and conditioned or encouraged, better said, groups of foreign hunters to come and create a massacre with a wild. In that case, of course, the Croatian savage, but it doesn't play any role. And from this title, given the entrepreneurship of the largest forest owner in our country of the Republic of Slovenia, it would make sense, in particular, to implement those provisions of that resolution, which speak of control, properly, in particular on a daily basis. I would also like to talk further about the inconvenient [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the issue of financing. [[...]] The fact is that through the forests we also finance denationalisation. 10% of the concessions are denationalisation payments. In the National Party, we have always sought the theory that, above all, in the field of forest protection, financial resources derived from the common title of forests are needed to return fully to forests. As stated in the resolution at the declaration level, it follows positive objectives and we will support the resolution from this title. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Sušnik, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u134	Dear Vice President. The Honourable Minister. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we consider the reasons for the adoption of the national forest programme within Slovenia to be the realisation of a number of tasks from the current forest development programme in Slovenia and the emergence of new current tasks, which are conditional on the adaptation of Slovenian European legislation, which underline the importance of environmental-friendly legislation based on the emphasis on public participation in the management of public goods. Among the most important reasons identified by the international environment is certainly the Resolution of the Ministerial Conference on the Protection of Forests and the fact that it is possible, through a national forest programme, to ensure the fulfilment of the commitments of sustainable management and the environmental importance of forests adopted by the Republic of Slovenia at national and regional level. The key objectives pursued by the National Forest Programme are several. Nevertheless, the most important sustainable development of the forest as an ecosystem in terms of its biodiversity and taking into account the environmental economic and social functions of the forest. This orientation will preserve and develop wildlife populations in healthy environments. Furthermore, the programme provides for sustainable and continued effective management of game. It is trying to establish a successful communication with forest owners and other public, which is crucial in resolving the conflicts that arise in forest management and that await us in the future. For all changes, however, it is crucial to ensure a favourable public policy and institutional environment, which will support sustainable forest management and continue the appropriate multi-purpose use of Slovenian forests. In any event, the national forest programme is a strategic document aimed at establishing a national policy for sustainable forest management. The main principles of the national forest programme are aimed at preserving the forest and ensuring the multi-purpose role of the forest and the economic dimension. The important economic aspect is based in particular on the fact that the current intervention that we record in our country is far below the optimal percentage recorded in the resolution, which is supposed to be 75% of the annual increase, taking into account all the specificities of each particular environment, which is a biotop of its kind. On the basis of the current situation and the objectives set, it contains a long-term vision of management, which, in addition to the development orientations of the lower forest sector, also identifies all the necessary links in the field of environmental protection and, in particular, nature conservation. The forest in Slovenia is a symbol of the country's visibility and a reflection of our attitude towards sustainable development, by which we try to ensure the sustainable and optimal functioning of the forest as a vital ecosystem. The forest is of great importance. It is therefore understandable and essential that the State protects this wealth. We are convinced that it is possible to preserve the forest, including our craftsmen, taking into account the principles enshrined in this Resolution on the National Forest Programme and that we will therefore support this resolution by the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. The forest covers about 60% of the area of Slovenia and is therefore extremely important for its development. Of course, development in the Social Democrats is not only a matter of technological development and interference with nature, but, above all, a simultaneous and related development both between the ecological, social and production functions of the forest. So that we are also satisfied that this resolution clearly defines that, after all, the game is the property of the country and is carried out by the Republic of Slovenia. However, we can be a little less satisfied with the fact that the area of state forests is constantly shrinking and that the area of private forests is larger each year, especially in the last period of the actual denationalisation process. This is what somehow separates us from the other countries of the European Union, where most countries, however, have a significant number of state forests, so we also need to be even more careful in the Resolution on the National Programme for the Development of Forests or the Forest Programme, as a country, about how we will be involved in the management of private forests. In particular, in order to provide ecological and social functions, private forests have a public interest, and the country must also somehow prepare appropriate measures and legal arrangements for them, so that it can finance the public forestry service and forest owners also contribute to the cost of forest management. This is a good relationship, which I think we still have to cultivate in Slovenia, especially because we can all have access to the forest, and that we will also be able to experience this 60% surface as a surface that we still need for our healthy development. To this we, therefore, somehow ask one question, in fact, the fact that 35.5% of these forests are, not least in Natura 2000, which we know will be under the direct control of the European Union or the Commission of the Union. Here is one of the open questions that we still do not have the right answers to today, what it will actually look like in future forest management if this Natura is too restrictive in the areas where these areas are. But if we go back to our home environment, the fact that the economic impact of wood from forests depends very much on quality. Today we can talk about that the structure range is slightly too weak, because, for example, 10% is actually just quality wood, but everything else is wood for cellulose, other industrial wood or wood for firewood. This is one of the relationships that certainly shows that it will have to be more intelligent to manage forests than it has been so far, so that we will not face a conservative management approach, but an active one, so that we will really have a healthy wood in the forest, so that we can actually achieve both social and economic exploitation of the forest. Roads are also obviously a major problem, as the fact is that after 1990, 1991 is significantly reducing the construction of new forest roads. At the same time, this coincides with the annual cut at the annual level, so that even from 1990 until 1996 there is a sharp decline in deforestation in our forests and thus a drastic reduction in the construction and maintenance of forest roads, trains and everything that is needed to be rationally managed by the forest. We therefore believe that more emphasis will have to be placed on forest financing in the future. This can also be achieved by increasing the rate; for example, a 30% increase in the rate means a higher return of 65%. This is the result of the fact that biological investment, construction and maintenance of forest trains and contribution to the maintenance of forest roads are fixed costs and, of course, if you increase the level, you can manage the forest more wisely. Of course, it is a balanced management in both private and state forests, in order to sustain and achieve the best possible economic impact of a healthy and vital forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u137	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The motion for a resolution will be decided today in the framework of the vote, which is in half an hour at 3:40. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3:40 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our meeting. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting apparatus. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Legal Examination, under the ordinary procedure We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We decide on the amendment of Article 18 of the Social Democrats' Group. Anybody want a word? Here you go, Mr. Potsch. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Since many of us have not been able to attend, I would just like to point out that we are proposing an amendment that would make it easier for us to carry out a legal examination, albeit much, in the case of institutions or civil society organisations on the basis of the Government's consent, and the bills by noding the Secretary of State that nothing would be wrong if we accepted this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I give the floor to the proposer. I'd like to ask you, we've already started the session and we've started the voting. So much to warn you. Thank you very much. I give the floor to the proposer of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Please, please, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the third consideration of the draft law be carried out at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u142	Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Thursday, 22 November 2007, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - discusses the draft law on amendments and additions to the witness protection law in the context of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. Anybody want a word? Check-in is on. Mr. Mag. Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u143	On behalf of the Group of Members. Your Honor! Given the fact that it is now clear that 100% of the financing of private church schools has been legal for ten years and you have just done so. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] If you'll excuse me, colleagues from SD, LDS and all the others from the opposition. Then, of course, it's clear why we're withdrawing this marriage. It's an offer. The offer of a hand that exceeds only a good gesture is aimed primarily at giving the opposition the opportunity, the entire transition left, to reconsider their actions, to apologize to its constituents, who have been dragged by their noses and set on fire by hostile speech. And to become a political force, which is also a valuable part of the European framework, when it does so when it apologizes to voters. This will be a small step for those who will do so, but it will be a big step for Slovenia, because you need to know something. In Europe, cultural struggle by means of hate speech in the way it has been for months and months in Slovenia is simply unknown. And continuing this kind of work at a time when we are leading the European Union, like the writing we talked about so much yesterday, will not only cast a shadow on those who will do so, but on the whole country. It is a question of responsibility to Slovenia, to this and to the next generations, and if you want to do so, or to the next governments. For they will fully assess Slovenia abroad. Thus, by its actual conduct, by its internal political developments and by its value assessment, which will be based on the actual conduct of all of you, I strongly urge you to cease once and for all by means of a non-European cultural fight.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We are really going to vote against the law in the Group of Members. We are pleased that this possibility has been offered that the State Council has vetoed another option of reflection. Because, at the end of this time, when this law has been shown to the public by the expert, and also by the public, the mistrust has been understood and we welcome this maturity of this understanding, that it is not valid to sail against the wind and against the ether, and that it is necessary to reconsider those key reform changes that this Slovenian space has not accepted and rejected in this law. Now there is another option, of course, in the option of what we heard today or yesterday evening in the National Assembly, when the Prime Minister offered the withdrawal of this law or the withdrawal of the two key dilemmas of this law and the possibility of further consideration and joint consideration of other open issues which are not yet so controversial, some are already harmonised, but others are not yet, but still represent a new option for dialogue. And we welcome this dialogue. We will be pleased if you keep the promise made yesterday by the Prime Minister and today by the Minister and in the Group of Members, we will really be able to help the Government with open and professional questions if it wants to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Janez Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. Citizens, and as a parent myself, I wonder if there has been a need to provoke division, even as a politician, I am concerned. What else is sacred to us? The teaching of children, children, is there nothing we can do about our children that we cannot overcome political thinking? We wondered whether it was necessary to change schools because there was too much violence in our school, whether there was something that needed to be changed because undereducated students were coming. They come with the little knowledge necessary for life, which is also necessary for work. Did we ask ourselves if we needed a school where parents should participate more in the education plan, in the functioning of the school? Did we ask ourselves if we needed to make a greater choice? This law, which was passed, which raised so much dust, offers this. And could we, once before our eyes, have only the rights of children without the unnecessary political, ideological and cultural divisions? This is what citizens of politicians expect of us, and at the same time we are parents. This is the responsibility of policy and this is the responsibility of a person. There is no need for division and all that happened was one division in a small Slovenian space. I consider this law appropriate and which brings these solutions, which I have mentioned earlier, so I will also support the law. As I am aware, the New Slovenia Group also supports the text of this law and will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Mitja Slavinec.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u149	Thank you so much for saying that. As always in all the votes voted so far on this law, we will also vote against it. We have already presented the reasons for this in the presentation of our position, but it is not only these two things that the applicant has stated, namely financing private schools and school centres. In this law, we want other little things to be rectified and perhaps a little bit smaller and, above all, we want the law not to be adopted on the basis of such an agreement and such coordination, which then leads to more than 70,000 signatures against it. I want and in the LDS Club we all want to involve the professional and interested public to a greater extent, so that teachers, parents, and not least that you will listen to the opposition's proposals first. We therefore wish that the marriage that succeeds this failure would come about in a different way. In the future, we also wish that there would be no such deception, that education would not be a subject of politics, of ideology, as we have heard today. It's not that someone's against church schools that are supposed to be 100 percent funded by now. Yes, some of those who were under the old law, and these are just a few, are really financed that way. But under this law, the majority of schools are funded by 85%, private schools, and we want the relationship to continue so that it will not be at the expense of public education at the expense of a private account. That public education and private education will have comparable conditions for further development and for creating the superstandard that we talked about. We heard the government offered a hand. True, the government has offered a hand, but that is not the hand of reconciliation. This is the hand drowning in water, which now prays to the opposition to save it from drowning. And we're gonna draw the government out of the water so it doesn't drown, so it doesn't lose its referendum. For it is for our good education, it is for our students, our teachers, that all those who participate in the school will have what Slovenia deserves.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Login in your own name. Mr. Anton Kokalj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u151	According to sound farming logic, I find that no schooling in Slovenia is 100% funded by the country. Those who have children in schools, whether they are public or private, let us look at the wallets where we pay the bills. It's pure demagic to talk about that public school is 100% paid. I'm looking at a very simple matter. How many government funds do we get? The fact is, this has been experimentally proven that with a smaller contribution to private schools we get a higher quality of education. And it seems to me "total nonsense" to be against the law that allows parents and children to be of the same quality as the state, that is constitutional right. If we go to the same co-financing for the same public programme on the same or two different children from the same family, I think it's totally indisputable. Of course, I must say that the media space has failed to digest the correct information, unfortunately. Unfortunately, I must say that in this case, too, these signatures, which are mentioned, have unfortunately been used in favour of the means towards the goal, are said to favour the means towards the goal. The goal is, forgive me, knowledge, quality, preparation of our children for life, before the rights and fear of teachers to lose their jobs, which I think has been abused by the leadership of a lobbyist organization led by someone and I think it is extremely demogosical and sad that the children are simply completely neglected in this process led by the union Sviz.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I do not imagine that my renewed claim that I will not support this law could convince any of those who have actively advocated it that the substantive reasons are on the side of the profession, not the cultural struggle. After the 19th century, it was suffocating in this hall, and it was taking place in public when we discussed changes to school legislation. Go take a look at how the cultural struggle started and why it started. The things we discussed have nothing to do with the cultural struggle. It was professional questions that were resolved in a very simplified way or that they wanted to resolve themselves in a very simple and fast way. It is a pity that the opportunity for dialogue in the profession was missed when it was possible to achieve a greater degree of harmony than we are now witnessing. I therefore welcome the decision of the Minister of Education and Sport to advise coalition Members and Members not to support this law and thus open the possibility that the practice we have witnessed in the current adoption of the novel will no longer be repeated. Education is so important that it is worthy of social consent. In the absence of this agreement, we must not open up room for mutual accusation to anyone who owes something to explain. At least in this country has the right to look at the world. However, if he decides not to send children to public school, he has to count on the small part of his pocket to contribute to their education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u154	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Member Bojan Kontic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The warnings of a large part of the profession, as a majority, the opposition's warnings and the warnings of the state councilors have been the same since the beginning; the content is the same; nothing has changed; and with these arguments we have rejected this bill, I certainly agree. That is why I will also vote against this law this time. However, I am pleased to find that, despite my opposition's support for the Government's proposal to withdraw from this project, the law, such as it was mediated in the procedure, I will take into account the Government's wishes, despite the fact that the Government has not listened to the opposition's wishes so far, in all debates, when it was possible to change the law, and even this time it would not have listened to the opposition, nor to the professions, nor to the Council of State, not if it had been in the background of a referendum that it would otherwise say that it could have received it. So, at this point, I don't give a damn whether we're saving the government from water in this law or agreeing with the wisdom of this government and the Prime Minister of the government, who announced that the coalition MPs will not support or support their law, at least for the most part. I will certainly vote against this law, and I am sure that this will express the will of the vast majority of those who would otherwise decide in the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Allow me to explain my vote on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group. Members of the Slovenian National Party will not be supported by this law. I believe that, in previous discussions, we have said this clearly enough, not many times, because the opportunities have been really great. It surprises me, you know, when some of the fellow Members' votes were also explained, they were either flying or flying signs to the side or at the expense of the opposition, at the expense of the profession, at the expense of the unions and all those who oppose such solutions, as proposed, and on which Minister Beast has recently insisted very strongly. I'm surprised these people use the same terminology as the Slovenian bishops at the bishop's conference. They're talking about a cultural battle - very interesting. So much more because you say this is not an ideologically reinforced reform of education in our country. As has already been said, in the Slovenian National Party we will not support the law, and I must say that we are pleased that you have all come to your senses, that you will give us the opportunity to build on, all, all children, accessible to public education in the future. Let me finish. You know, education is not a sphere to be shown or to prove our political prestige. Education or education is the sphere where only knowledge can be the only true authority. Let this also guide the Minister to the future when he is preparing a new reform.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Member Happy Friend has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister of Cooperation! I'm glad today we've waited three years for this moment. The first marriage is before us, when the government has said it is true, it must be withdrawn, it is bad, it is inappropriate, we will take this step back. And remember this date! For three years, the opposition has been fighting to be heard in this National Assembly. The first marriage to run into open ears. Yet, perhaps not because of judgment, but because of fear; but fear has a good, positive thing. I would call on the government, of course, because it saved 600 million tolars in this way. [[I'm talking about tolars, let me be forgiven, that's the last piece of data we have calculated, that's what it costs to referendum.]] That it divides it among the poor. If Mr Janša said at the last meeting that 10% of those living below the poverty line, that means that it is 200,000 people, and that he should distribute the 600 million he saved for the referendum among these people. The opposition, however, will ensure that this law will not be so Catholic as to be acceptable to citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I'm opening a new round of voice-explanatory applications. Here you go, please. Member Slavko Gaber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I will support today's vote against the law myself. However, I will probably judge by myself and also by all of you this vote below, to a very simple extent. If, as this law stops today at this point of treatment, we open up the possibility of an agreement with a professional, to coordinate with the social partners, to seriously consider how to increase the quality of the school system in this country, how to take care of the network of schools and kindergartens, then it will be a sign that it has stood for the decision of wisdom; it has come late, it is usually so that it does not come very early, but it has arrived in time. If this is not the case, if someone accidentally forgets that it is necessary to coordinate with the social partners in order to agree with the expert, to take into account the professional positions, then we will probably all believe that he was not guided by wisdom in this regard, but that he was led primarily and only by fear of losing the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Member Mitja Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u163	Thank you very much. As with the entire LDS, of course I will vote against this law myself. In doing so, I would like to point out in particular this. Certainly there are solutions in the law that are good, which will help Slovenian education. And that would be good if they were established as soon as possible. However, I estimate that those who do harm to Slovenian education, that those who do not deserve more, will be harmed by the fact that the law will not be adopted for a period of time in comparison with the damage that would have occurred if the law were now enforced and, of course, as we have already heard, the new additional costs had been stopped for the whole year at the referendum. I estimate that everything we have heard in the beginning, both from the implementation of the Bologna study, the care of the Faculty of Education, of this, of course, because I come from one of these, I know that it is certainly not exactly as we heard there in the introduction of the Minister, the teaching funds or the free textbooks that are already possible and in many schools actually functioning, then the abolition of tuitions, which will not only be told after the new tuition and many other things that we have heard that all this is not such a significant change since they already exist in the existing law, the existing law allows them, and not least of all, to be applied in schools. What I want from my new education law, what I want my new marriage to bring, is that teachers in schools will be able to teach that they will not be bureaucrats and that students will come home with such knowledge that parents will trust our schools even more. That's why I won't support this whole marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I give my word to Ambassador Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u165	Thank you. I have to say, you guys are so wrong when you say we were afraid of the referendum. I personally looked forward to him, and I would have wanted him. Because this would be an ideal opportunity for every house to present to every man a list of your vote when you Members of the SD, LDS, SNS, and others of the then coalition did what you then attributed to us in the old post-communist manner. You would be spoiled in front of your own constituents, which would be an extremely valuable political experience for your constituents as well as for all the other inhabitants and residents of our country. But something else prevailed, a responsibility to the image that we create abroad. We wanted to give you the opportunity to prove, by ending a cultural fight that does not belong to a Europe that does not have a place in Europe, that you also have a value to judge alongside other European parties, that the country of Slovenia is not only a European comparable government, but that it also has a European comparable opposition. For as long as with the hate speech, which was something today, you don't fight culturally, I tell you very clearly that you judge in some other time, in some other place, in a period that we've all been convinced is long past and will never come back. So it's a responsibility to our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u166	Thank you very much. And I give the word to Marjetka Uhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u167	This is about the rights of children and parents. In the school room. This is not about the rights of teachers, according to the Constitution, parents have the right and the duty to raise and educate children and the state has to provide them with free education, that is what I meant when I advocated this law and the profession has few valid reasons or professional reasons to oppose this law. Here is essentially a political will or we pay all children 100% compulsory education and this education approved by the state, which is supervised by the state as it wishes. And next time we discuss whether you would be happy if you did not let your parents and children go and consider their wishes or rights. And I haven't changed my mind, so I'm going to support this marriage today.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u168	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Member Borut Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'm glad to be in this room today and this time and to be able to say no to a bad marriage. Of course, we will talk about the marriage later, but I would say that after this gesture of goodwill, there is no way to praise the day before night. I also support private schools, but not from the same bag as we finance public schools, because we do not have enough money for public schools right now. Once again, for public education, especially for the maintenance of school premises, there is simply a shortage of funds. I come from a congregation where there are still asbestos roofs in schools where there are windows in schools, because there is no money to rebuild, left with nails and where we have a mortgage on a health inspection. And once we have what we need to maintain and regulate as we need to, I am, of course, willing to discuss private schools that I am not opposed to in principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm opening the procedure, please. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u171	Thank you very much. This time in your name. You know, when some of you have stressed or excused the law for equality, I will remind you that this law is precisely because of the collapse of the uniform concept of distinction between primary schools, the distinction in the basic field, the law that will or would legitimize inequality. That this is a law or a law related to education, which in our area undoubtedly means inequality. Why? Because, according to the Income Act adopted by this Government, the government coalition, citizens and citizens can donate 0.5% of their income to private schools, public schools cannot. So much for equality, respectable colleagues and colleagues. And, you know, it's bad, it's bad to build on the law, which means rationalisation while at the same time increasing the cost of private education. Another fact that public school is already paying. The monthly position for photocopies and paper towels is EUR 12. Why don't we build on free quality public education? Since I have received information that a written meeting of the Government is already taking place today, where a new law on the organisation and financing of education and education is to be drawn up quickly, I ask on this occasion whether this time the Minister will also put the law into parliamentary procedure beyond the agreement with the social partners? This is bad, respected colleagues and colleagues. I will not support such a marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u173	Thank you, President. So, I will vote against this because I am following not only the arguments against this law, but also the call of the Minister, and because of the maximum cooperation I am contributing to calming the situation around this law. Yesterday, your coalition colleagues voted in confidence with the government, you gave the president 51 votes, you're already breaking up today. In this law, you prove that you are not united. And that's bad. In order not to see the opposition working and acting in a non-operational manner tomorrow, even though it would be spoiled with some sheets, such or other, you can put them on the jumbo posters, Comrade Grims, no problem. But all of this shows you didn't agree on what to do in the coalition. However, Mr Minister, I have listened, and I have also advised very wisely on the follow-up. He sought the cooperation of partners in this law and the participation of the opposition. The opposition will take part in this, and has also called on it in particular to invite it to prepare a new proposal by means of a rapid procedure, profession, trade unions and all the affected parties, in order to regulate and adopt a law that will be liked by the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u174	Thank you very much. We can go to the vote. So, as has been said, I would like to remind you once again that in the re-decision, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, that is, 46 or more. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 4 votes against 29. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 29.]] I understand that the law is not passed. And that concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law on the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration." Can we vote? We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 26. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 9th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. By Article 33, the SD Group has tabled an amendment. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 8. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 13. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. However, we continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft resolution on the National Forest Programme. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. I inform you that, pursuant to Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service, I have not been warned that the motion for a resolution would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against Nobody. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. PERFORMANCE OF THE DAY’S ORIGIN, REMOVABLELY VOLUNTARY MATTERS. Under this item, the Assembly will consider 1. Proposals by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of four judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, 2. Proposal by the President of the Republic to appoint three candidates for judge at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. 3. Ten proposals from the Judicial Council for election to judicial office. And four. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the President and the appointment of the President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for internal policy, public administration and justice. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. In doing so, I would like to inform you in particular that we will hold secret votes on the proposals of the President of the Republic of Slovenia mentioned above under 1 and 2 at the same time after the closed discussions on both proposals. We move to the Proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of four judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, proposed by letter of 8 November this year to the National Assembly that he should elect the judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia: mag. Darinko Girl Marguch, Dr. Bostian Zalar, mag. Marta Klampfer and Dr. Miodrag Djordjevic. Does the representative of the motioner Mrs Magdalena Truck want a word? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u175	Nicely greeted! Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The four candidates who follow the course of this agenda item in one of the numerous meeting rooms in this house are also warmly welcomed. After you did not fully confirm the proposal for five Constitutional Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia on 29 October, the majority that is necessary you made a single proposal and the four Judges remained, the President of the Republic of Slovenia had two options, both legal but slightly different. The first was easier, the second was a little harder. The easier it would be to simply publish a new call that lasted as long as the three previous calls, which would mean 60 days, which would mean leaving the composition of the proposal and deciding on its successor there in the early spring of next year. Another legal possibility was for the President of the Republic of Slovenia, within 14 days, to draw up a new proposal for four Constitutional Judges and leave it to you, honourable Members and Members, to decide. The President has chosen this second option because he wants to carry out his duties and duties until the end and because the mandate of all four Constitutional Judges has expired or will expire at a time when the President of this country is still Dr. Janez Drnovšek. In the composition of this proposal, he did not have an easy task, he wanted to take into account and did so, all the criteria he had taken into account in the first proposal, that is, the high professionalism of the candidates, their rich experience, their sense, the evidentiary, the accuracy, the work and the willingness to expose and test the extent to which they are applied in this National Assembly. The President also wanted to take into account gender equality in the future, which means that of the four candidates he wanted to propose two male candidates and two female candidates. Finally, the President also wished to take into account the comments made in the National Assembly on his previous proposal. At the time, it was wrong that he might have decided more about the candidates who responded to his calls themselves and that he took too little account of the external candidates, if I may say so. This time he also invited the candidate magi to the proposal. Martha Klampfer, who didn't sign herself up for the invitation. And another thing the president did this time, he consulted very widely in particular on the academic sphere, he invited those whom some of you had missed the last time. Some have not been able to accept this task right now, but they have proposed other candidates to the president, so candidate Marta Klampfer is actually a candidate proposed by this very highly professional academic sphere. The mandate-election commission has spoken of these candidates. On behalf of the proposer, I believe that this proposal is also a good one, and I therefore expect you to support it. And by doing so, they did not waste the opportunity that was the last time the proposal was good before and after the vote, only during the vote. So, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! By voting four candidates for constitutional judges, we will allow for a normal replacement in the Constitutional Court. And since candidates are capable and professional, it is not a matter of fear that the reputation of this important state authority would be lost in honour and, above all, in expertise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u176	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. However, we have received a position or report from Members. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. I invite my colleague, Jožef Horvat, to present the position of the Nova Slovenije Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u177	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies Dear Counsellor of the President of the Republic, Mrs Magdalena Truck! After the so-called Human Resources Initiative, the President of the Republic of Slovenia proposed four candidates for constitutional judges, Mag. Darinko Dekleva Marguch, Senior Judge at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Boštjan Zalar, Senior Judge at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia, mag. Marta Klampfer, President of the Supreme Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana, and Dr Miodrag Đorđević, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In the New Slovenia Group, we note that today's candidates for constitutional judges were treated in a slightly different way by the President of the Republic than the four candidates decided by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at the October meeting of the National Assembly. This time, the President of the Republic of Slovenia did not speak to representatives of the members of the national assembly, so he did not further explain and argue his proposals. At the meeting of the parliamentary group before the meeting of the Mandate Election Commission, we have drawn up a position not to support any of the candidates. This is also how we voted on the members of New Slovenia in the Mandate-Election Commission. At the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, Mrs Magdalena Tovornik, the adviser to the President of the Republic, suggested that parliamentary groups should have discussions with the candidates. That was our welcome. We have done this in the New Slovenia Group and also from this city thank the candidates and candidates for taking the time to talk. During the talks we received answers to the questions raised, some satisfactory, some less satisfactory. We also note that the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, has not met with candidates for a personal interview, which is not a legal requirement, but in our opinion gives weight to such important functions as constitutional judges. We also understand at human level the possible objective circumstances, which may not have allowed discussions between the President and the candidates. After discussions with the candidates and after reconsideration on the basis of these, we decided in the New Slovenia Group that we would give our support to the candidates as always on our own conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u178	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by a colleague, Dr. Matej Lahovnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u179	Dear Members, Members, President! We were first surprised at the fact that the President of the State had decided to propose four new candidates for constitutional judges or judges just before the end of his term of office, given that candidates who also had excellent professional references had been rejected just before. However, it must be acknowledged that the President of the State has a mandate until 23 December, that he has all the right and duty to do so, and we also believe that he has carefully considered his proposal. Regarding the candidates mentioned above, it should be said that the opinions, some of them professionally, were different. At the same time, I would like to point out explicitly that we believe that everyone has the right to be identified from the point of view of the profession, as did the former Constitutional Judge. But the way he did it seemed inappropriate to us, especially because one of the candidates did not see so much expertise as being right-wing. Even if this is the case, we never share the people on the left and right in our parliamentary group, as we like to do in this National Assembly and in our society all too often in purely ideological grounds or in some prejudices, but forgets the professional references of candidates. In view of everything and given that we also believe that the President of the State proposal has carefully considered it, we will support the candidates.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Ambassador Znidaršič will give his position to the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u181	Dear President, Honourable Counsellor of the President of the State, colleague and colleague! Our parliamentary group will support all four proposals for candidates for constitutional judges. We believe that the President of the country has carefully considered his proposal. He also held extensive consultations with qualified experts prior to the preparation of this proposal. We don't think he was thinking about political references. We think he was thinking about professional references. In our firm conviction, all are able to do this work, and each one must start doing it for the first time. That is why we respect both the Institute and the proposal of the Institute of the President of the Republic regarding the Constitutional Judges. We do not imagine ourselves as laymen judging their references, which we also find to be improper or in some sense humiliating. Many talk today about the fact that the proposal is worse than the previous one, but we have not fully supported the previous one. We have always supported all the proposals, unfortunately they have not been accepted. Many qualified candidates, however, do not apply today or even want to accept candidates at the invitation of the President of the Republic because they do not want to fall into the situation of the prosecution, the judgements and comments of the pure laymen for the profession when they are on the run, and, of course, they do not want to risk a non-election, even though they are indisputably capable. And I'm afraid that when we act like this, our common candidates would be fewer and less and more, I can say, at a lower level of expertise. So we think it is high time for the Constitutional Court to professionally complete itself with all the Constitutional Judges, and we will unitedly support the proposal of the President of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Comrade Jože Tanko will give the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! The proposal submitted by the President of the Republic, Drnovšek, to the National Assembly is prepared in time. In this time period, he was pushed down by the parties who, in the previous round of consultations, promised him full consent and support for his proposal, but then there was a large part of the vote or a large number of Members of these parliamentary groups were absent. There were 14 Members of those parliamentary groups who promised full support to the President of the Republic. And because this support was sufficient, the President of the Republic also sent that proposal to the National Assembly because he estimated that he had sufficient support. Among those missing were two leaders of the parliamentary groups. And for these two leaders, it was more important to attend a television show in which they "found" Interior Minister Matei because of the tragic consequences of the unvoted law. If the opposition’s participation were complete, as Dr. Drnovsku had promised, three new constitutional judges could be voted on last month. This is how we today repeat the procedure with the new candidates. This attitude towards the President of the Republic, when he was personally promised support and this has also been communicated to the public, and then this support with non-participation and obstruction has withdrawn from him, in our opinion, is not appropriate to the Institute of the President of the Republic. In doing so, I would like to point out that this story did not happen to the President of the Republic for the first time that it did not happen to him for the first time. He has been played several times by representatives of Social Democracy and Liberal Democracy. First of all, in the previous term, when they replaced the Prime Minister of the Government, when Prime Minister Drnovšek was elected President of the Republic and left the Government to his successor the Magi. Robbery. At that time, it immediately showed how the work of the policy was done, as Members of the current coalition, mainly composed of the Liberal Democracy and the SD, immediately undermined three of his proposals for the President of the Court of Auditors. This sample and such a relationship with the President of the Republic has been maintained until today. These parties have not changed it and hold nothing that has been promised to the President of the Republic. But the problem is even bigger. In doing so, they serve to mislead and mislead and speak when the coalition is the one that has the majority and the coalition is the one that is responsible for the acceptance and approval of the proposals of the President of the Republic. But I have to challenge that. Every time we have been invited to speak to the President of the Republic, we have clearly and unequivocally communicated our position to the candidates proposed. And we never voted differently, although this was a secret vote, but the Group of Members, as we presented the position to the President of the Republic and as we communicated it to the public, held the same position, and, unlike some other groups of Members who promised full support, then one third of them were missing. This time, the President of the Republic did not invite us to talk about the weather he was in, and also because he wanted the situation in the Constitutional Court to change during his term of office, so we did not communicate our views to the public. However, I would like to say that this time we will support a proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, namely, we will support the mag. Marta Klampfer, President of the Supreme Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana, and I also hope that the candidate will receive sufficient support for the election of the Constitutional Judge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Dušan Kumer will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Counsellor of the Office of the President of the State, Honourable colleague and colleague! Now, of course, I have an ungrateful task following this exposition of the leader of the largest parliamentary group in this National Assembly, and I will somehow start like this. Jesus is dead, and Marks is dead, and I feel very bad after this introduction, but I'm going to hold on and I'm going to say what I'm going to say. To begin with, with a strong voice, I would reject the insinuation that, once again, the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats was to play the president of the country in this story of the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court. I will make it clear, and I will express myself in a sporting manner, that in this National Assembly there is a "golgeter" for all emancipation, for every emancipation of the government coalition. As she chooses, so is the final result of all elections. And you imagine and insinuate what you want. Yesterday's proof, numerical, is clear. 51 votes are cast by the government coalition and only 39 have the opposition. So there's no way that any candidacy goes through that is not your good will. That's why all the conspiracy stories about some plays, etc. I prefer to leave it to your imagination, which is full of lies and falsehoods, and tell it to your children or if you have grandchildren, they will be thrilled in the evening before they fall asleep. That I was going to do what I was going to say. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the country's President's proposal to elect four judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, we regret that political calculations and the prioritization of party preferences, particularly by the coalition majority in this National Assembly, have not fully succeeded in the first proposal. Nevertheless, the attitude of the Group of Social Democrats towards the Institute of the President of the State and its proposals sent to the National Assembly remains unchanged - correct, respectful and at the level of mutual trust. Therefore, in this case, we also assess that all four candidates and candidates proposed by the President of the country are worthy of confidence in the management of such an important function as that of a constitutional judge, and we have nothing to deny them in both professional and personal terms. However, it can be concluded from the explanation of the individual candidates that the President of the State has also tried to select the best candidates and candidates in this second attempt, as well as to follow professional balance. It is clear, however, that the situation regarding the election of Constitutional Judges has become extremely complicated that the President of the State has been in a very disadvantaged position, as his proposals, as a rule, do not receive sufficient support in the National Assembly without sound reasons. This has the effect that the meeting of distinguished lawyers and judges who would be willing to run for this office will bring to a close in this National Assembly. The Group of Social Democrats supports the proposal of the President of the State in the hope that the second National Assembly will be able to complete the free seats of judges in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Perhaps this would also be a positive signal in the future also in the professional round in other areas, that estimates are that Members and Members of the National Assembly are choosing and supporting candidates and candidates only on the basis of a worldwide opinion, party affiliation and sympathy, but not expertise and neutrality, unwarranted. Otherwise, when these proposals are rejected, we will only further support these assessments and findings. At the coalition majority in this National Assembly, it is to reject and reject these assessments. Yesterday's 51 votes make it possible, 39 votes from the opposition are too small. And in the end. If we did not give you the opportunity and opportunity yesterday to elect an opposition leader with these 51 votes, and then the opposition government, you have the opportunity to elect four new constitutional judges instead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The position of the Liberal Democracy Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u187	Good evening, once again, to all present and, of course, a special greeting also to the Office of the President of the State. At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we assess the president's proposals as acceptable. We welcome the President's efforts and efforts to finally fill the Constitutional Court on the eve of work and our judicial backlog. It seems simply unacceptable to us that because the Constitutional Court is not complete, many of our citizens and citizens are waiting months and years for a final decision to come. The president took into account all the criteria, first of all expertise, experience, justice. The proposal is balanced as different areas of expertise are represented. We are particularly concerned about human rights. The proposal continues to be sexually balanced, and as many as three out of fourteen of those who have applied themselves are here. If we treat the candidates as stepmotherly as ever, then the circle of those who want to apply for this responsibility will be closer from day to day. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we want these elected judges to be judged primarily by justice, constitution and laws, but not by what we hear in this Chamber repeatedly that we should seek some balance according to political options. The judges who have applied for the invitation meet all the conditions, and it is up to us to decide tonight. In particular, we condemn attempts to decommit certain powers indirectly to the President. Without a doubt, such conduct is not in place. It may be too often forgotten, and it is right to remember that the President of the State is elected in a different way than we are elected, Members. Finally, the Slovenian voters made a decision not long ago, and voters are always right in established democracies. In the LDS, unlike some in this Chamber, we attach them this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u188	Thank you very much. With your debate, we have concluded a round aimed at presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate of the Members and Members of Parliament who have been declared. First of all, I invite Member Slavko Gabra. [[He's not here.]] The word is from a colleague, Josef Školč. [[He's quitting.]] Borut Saiovic's friend? [[Not at all.]] My friend Dushan Kumer? [[Not at all.]] Member of the Peace Run? [[Not at all.]] My friend Joza Tanko? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u189	The fact is that the President of the Republic is placed in a very unappreciative situation, especially when some leaders of the parliamentary groups in the consultations promise him full support during the talks, and then when the proposal comes to the National Assembly in plenary, this support is suddenly no longer in the same number as it was announced. Members are missing, even the leaders of the parliamentary groups who have promised the president this. And even in the last vote, it was not unnoticed that the two leaders of the parliamentary groups were on a television show instead of participating in a vote in the National Assembly on Constitutional Judges. This was also pointed out by the President of the Constitutional Court, Dr. Onbulj. On this he was deeply amazed, completely justified, and he estimated that some gave a dedication, which were more popular, which was not decisive for this country, than by a serious vote in the National Assembly for Candidates for Members of the highest judicial branch - for Constitutional Judges. The fact is, in the previous round of voting on the Constitutional Judges, there were three candidates who received one 32 votes and two 34 votes. And that there were fourteen members of the opposition. This is said to have been voted in favour of the three candidates by members of the coalition parliamentary groups. If the opposition's parliamentary groups had kept their word to the President of the Republic, and they had also said so publicly, three more constitutional judges would have been elected, regardless of the coalition's responsibility. As far as our party is concerned, I have told the President of the Republic very clearly and very specifically what our support will be. I made this very clear about this speaker in this National Assembly, I said that we would support one of the candidates, that one of the candidates had unanimous support, and that another candidate could be supported. What the coalition said, and above all what you promised in the opposition, it would be enough for these constitutional judges to be elected. However, from the previous term of office of the previous Government, the current opposition, this coalition or former coalition, has a very negative relationship with the President of the Republic. In practically all the important decisions, the human resources decisions he proposed, even when you had a 2/3 majority in the National Assembly, you failed to confirm his proposals. Four times for the President of the Court of Auditors, even one of our fellow Members, who is among us a top financial expert, was not suitable for the President of the Court of Auditors. This problem of relations between the former or former Prime Minister of the Government and the current President of the Republic began as soon as the term of office of the former or former Prime Minister of the Government began. Even in Athens, he couldn't agree with the president who would sign for NATO. There was a big exception at the time, it was very obvious that this fell out and this pattern of degradation of the office of President, which is truly elected in a different way than the Government, as President of the Government and as Members. And this whole relationship has continued. This is also what I propose today, before we make an important decision to do what you have actually promised. We'll be safe.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Comrade Kumer procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u191	I have a procedural proposal. I was going to propose this to the Mandate-Immunity Commission, but today I'm going to propose to the National Assembly. In view of the fact that the election of constitutional judges is a secret election, I ask the leadership of the National Assembly how some Members who discuss this may have come to the secret directory for these elections and know which Members have been and who have not been present in these elections. Please, if this leadership of the National Assembly finds out and sees how they've come up with these matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be played by the third vice president. And I would like to take the floor by inviting the proposer, if she wants to speak. Here you go. Peace in the hall! Mrs. Tovornikova has the word and only her.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to say before you speak of the support of the four proposed candidates this time, only to remove any doubts that the President of the Republic, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, would be in time this time. 14 days is really not much time. But if you give it to one project alone, then it's time for you to think about it. Also because the President of the Republic was not thinking about a new one. The President of the Republic chose from among those who showed their willingness to become constitutional judges on three of his calls. And the President of the Republic knew all 13 candidates and candidates, so that they were quite equal candidates and candidates. That's why the president wasn't in time. Perhaps I would say that in the end there were no women on the call, but also, as I said in the introduction, the President of the Republic wanted to listen to your debate that you may have missed a choice that goes beyond the call issued and the candidates applied for. As for the remarks made by the President of New Slovenia, Commissioner Horvath, that the President did not meet with the candidates, I must say that, at least since I am here, it has not been customary for him to meet with them before they were elected to the National Assembly. But I believe that I would like to congratulate you from the heart for your election. Well, he'll do it today if you decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I also conclude this debate in conjunction with the first chapter of the electoral mandate. We are moving on to the debate on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to identify three candidates for a judge at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. By letter dated 29 October this year, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Janez Drnovšek, proposed to the National Assembly that Prof. Dr. Boštjan M. Zupančič, Ms Mileno Šmit and Mr Boštjan Penk be elected candidates for judges at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. I'm asking the representative the answer already. [[...]] The proposal also addressed the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a parent working body reporting to the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to the vote on the proposals of the President of the Republic for, for the first time, the election of four judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, and secondly, the appointment of three candidates for judges at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. In accordance with Article 163 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 7, paragraph 1, of the Law on the application of candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts on the election of the National Assembly shall be decided by secret vote. In this regard, I would particularly like to point out that the National Assembly elects three candidates for judges at the European Court of Human Rights, of which the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will appoint one judge of the European Court of Human Rights. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. The Deputy Secretary-General will also be involved in the work of the Commission. I have already received proposals in advance for members of the voting committee: colleague Franz Jazbec, colleague Aurelio Juri, Rudy Mogue and Martin Mikolič, and I am also the chairman of this committee. Does anyone object to that proposal? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposed composition of the Commission. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present, all present have confirmed the Commission's proposal. I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there will be 7 votes delivered to Members and Members by each Member coming to the Chair's table and giving his name. It shall be voted on by the word "yes" or "against" on each ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clear. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 7 of the Law on the Proposal of Candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for Judges of International Courts, each proposed candidate will be elected if voted for by a majority of Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist me in the vote to report to room 217, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will start in 10 minutes, 17.20, and it will take 20 minutes, which means until 17.40. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I'm adjourning the assembly meeting, which we'll resume at 6:30. We have 7 votes, and the electoral commission will have a hard time speaking. As we say, at the hour, as I said, it's 6:30 p.m., we continue the meeting of the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u195	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please take your seats. Thank you very much. We're continuing our session. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda - the proposal by the President of the Republic to elect four judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. I will first read four minutes, namely the minutes on the conclusion of the outcome of the vote for the judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 20 November 2007. 80 votes were distributed, 80 votes were cast, 4 votes were invalid, 76 votes were valid. The "yes" was voted by 35 Members, "against" 41 Members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, she was not elected as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by the majority of the votes of all Members. Darinka the Girl Marguch. I would like to inform you further of the minutes on the conclusion of the outcome of the vote for the judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote took place at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 20 November 2007. 80 ballots were distributed, 80 ballots were delivered, 1 ballot was invalid, 79 votes were valid. "For" was voted by 34 Members, "against" was voted by 45 Members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, he was not elected as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by the majority of the votes of all Members. I take note of the minutes on the conclusion of the outcome of the vote for the judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 20 November 2007. 80 ballots were distributed, 80 votes were cast, no votes invalid, 80 votes valid. "For" was voted by 71 Members, "against" was voted by 9 Members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, by a majority of the votes of all Members, she was elected Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Martha Klampfer. I take note of the last minutes of the outcome of the vote for the Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 20 November 2007. 80 votes were distributed, 80 votes were cast, 3 votes were invalid, 77 votes were valid. "For" was voted 35, "against" was voted by 42 Members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, he was not elected as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miodrag Djordjevic. Now, please, Mag. Marta Klampfer, Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u196	I swear that I will judge by the Constitution and the law and by my conscience, and I will do my utmost to ensure constitutionality and legality and to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms. Thank you. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] Just let me thank you for your confidence. [[...]] I am very pleased that the President of the country's proposal to propose me as a constitutional judge has received such support. But I also know that this has given me a lot of responsibility and that today’s arrest and election have given me great responsibility. The Constitutional Judge is the guardian of the Constitution. The Constitutional Judge must interpret the constitutional provision, not in isolation, but in a complex manner, in the spirit of the entire Constitution. In its constitutional judgements, the Constitutional Judge must be guided by a high level of expertise, not by political criteria. I am confident and hope that, when I begin to perform this function, the Constitutional Court, with its constitutional decisions, will be able to ensure that the institution to which I am leaving today's election will be able to carry out its fundamental task, which the Constitutional Court has in constitutional democracy. The Constitutional Court is the highest guardian of constitutionality and human rights. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u197	Thank you very much for your address. I congratulate the newly elected Constitutional Judges on behalf of the National Assembly and wish her the best possible work on behalf of all of us. We continue with the adjournment of the 21st point, this is with the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint three candidates for a judge at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. I take note of the minutes on the outcome of the vote for the European Court of Human Rights candidate in Strasbourg, Prof. Boštjan M. Zupančič. The vote took place at the National Assembly on 20 November this year. 80 ballots were distributed, 80 ballots were delivered, one ballot was invalid, 79 votes were valid. There were 73 votes in favour, with 6 votes against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, by a majority of the votes of all Members, he was elected candidate for judge at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, Prof. Boštjan M. Zupančič. I take note of the minutes on the outcome of the vote for the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, Ms Milena Šmit. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia today on 20 November. 80 ballots were distributed, 80 ballots were delivered, three ballots were invalid, 77 were valid. There were 73 votes in favour, with four members voting against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Ms Milena Šmit was elected candidate for judge at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. I would like to introduce you to the third, final minutes on the outcome of the vote for Judge at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, Mr Boštjan Penk. The vote took place at the Assembly premises on 20 November. 80 ballots were distributed, 80 ballots were delivered, two votes invalid, 78 votes valid. 73 Members and Members voted against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mr Boštjan Penko was elected as Judge in the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. I congratulate all candidates and elected judges on behalf of the National Assembly on their election. However, we are moving on to the consideration of the 10 proposals of the Judicial Council for election to the judiciary. The Council of Justice submitted ten proposals to the Assembly for the election of candidates and candidates for judicial office to the courts of the District Court of Maribor and seven District Judges and two District Judges at the District Court in Celje, Kočev, Ljubljana, Škofja Loki, Domžalah and Maribor. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which informed the assembly in writing and submitted the proposed proposals for conclusions. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for the following decisions. Firstly, I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of the Magi. Janez Žirovnika to the judge's seat at the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Secondly, I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Tanja Potočnik at the district court in the District Court in Celje. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, for 46, for 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Helene Vidic Bizjak to the District Court in the District Court in Kočev. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, for 44, for 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Matei Čujovič as a judge of the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, for 44, for 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Anja Gregorič Lozej to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, for 47, for 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Tatjana Kukanja to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, for 50, for 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Erika Ponikvar Dečman to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, for 49, for 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Simone Prosen to the District Court in the District Court in Škofja Loka. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Vita Hribar to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Domžalah. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 50 votes against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Tomaž Klenovška as a judge of the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We move on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the President and the appointment of the President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice The proposal was tabled by the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group, which proposes that Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar be dismissed as Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice and is appointed President of the Committee for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the President and the appointment of the President of the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 53 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I also conclude the 21st item of the agenda. I am adjourning the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good evening.
