ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I'm asking you to calm down. I begin the 26th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Josip Bajc, Kristian Janc, Miro Petek, Maria Possonec, Anton Rop and Marjetka Uhan. We're moving on to 13. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - This is for consideration by the Act on the determination of a parliamentary inquiry under the requirement of 38 Members and Members. On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the request for a parliamentary inquiry was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 38 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Anton Anderlic. I give my word to Mr. Anton Anderlich. Mr Aurelio Juri will also take the floor on behalf of the applicants. Mr. Anderlich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u2	Your Honor! The parliamentary inquiry is an institution which is available to Members and Members of each Parliament when they cannot, in the context of their regular activities, pose questions of Members, which leave the call for meetings of working bodies, which constitute a call for a meeting of the National Assembly, which represents an insight into the work of the Government of individual ministers, who provide insight into transparency and clarity in the exercise of both public powers and spending, or, we can call it, the distribution of public money, which is intended for individual programmes, which, on the basis of documents, the definition of the National Assembly, the Government, namely, authorities in a given country, is then managed by them. It happened to us that we would almost walk into the sand and blur this role of Parliament. By trying to monitor the implementation of the resolution on national security when we tried to control the use of money intended for defence, security matters in the framework of the Slovenian Armed Forces' equipment plans, we were thus unable to do everything possible to prevent any insight into certain documents, by looking at how the purchase of 8x8, that is, the medium circuit bikes, when the Minister for every price tried a business partner, by the way, not from the country of Slovenia, was covered by the way that he explained to the Assembly and the public how business secrets were involved and that we should not know what was going on. It went so far as to write to the President of the National Assembly that he could not look into these documents, he failed - it was luck, and then we started, at least I think, as normal as we can, we can, and even we have to do our job. However, despite the fact that the debate, after all the above-mentioned procedures, from the Defence Committee, from public questions to the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, has been held to raise a number of questions, it has come to the end that neither Members nor the public have been given any answers and we do not know what is actually involved in this purchase today. It is essential for Parliament to determine, first of all, whether it is a legitimate procurement, i.e. when it comes to documents on the basis of which they have decided to purchase and are consistent with these documents when it comes to whether the tendering conditions were such that they did not favour anyone, that the tendering conditions were equally accessible to all those who called on them to supply these documents to all potential suppliers. There's a suspicion that that wasn't the case. This was confirmed at a meeting of the National Assembly. This is not about the State Assembly discussing which choice is better. It is whether the selection was based on the relevant grounds, the invitation to tender was in accordance with the law and the contract was awarded in accordance with the tendering documents and the requirements applicable both under the public procurement law, although it is a public procurement of a confidential nature and therefore they refer to the so-called trade secret. I would like to make it very clear that, for members of the National Assembly, there is no information that arises in the Republic of Slovenia after the Constitution, so there can be no business secret under the law on the protection of classified information and other documents. For it is the provision of those needs, those functions which are carried out by government representatives on behalf of citizens and citizens. After all, the National Assembly is that part of the authority that I have already talked about playing the role of control. If we have closely followed all the debate on this issue, then we can find that the requirement for determining this parliamentary inquiry is what it is the duty of all Members and Members to get the data we want, which we need to know and for which we are responsible to the public. It is not that in the way it has been tried in the past, but also in this parliamentary inquiry, you want to investigate this and we will do something else. I would like to explain very carefully why a debate, an investigation must first be conducted, following procedures which are strictly prescribed and which exclude the possibility of various manipulations, including deceptions and the like, which is possible in political discourse, and in the context of the discussions that take place both in the National Assembly and in the public, and so on, to try to speculate about trying to divert attention to others. In this case, however, the Commission of Inquiry is acting in accordance with the principle or rules in force, as is the case in the judiciary. It's a sworn statement. These are statements which, if not true, are also punishable. Because we believe that it was a matter of underestimating the National Assembly because it did not want to answer the questions that it was also what was said at the meeting of the National Assembly that individual actors in this business had information earlier, they had information in order to obtain this order. Who, why did this also serve, who in this way tried to give this business, why, must be determined. Is it necessary to determine whether what is fundamental to all purchases from the State budget is rational? Was it about buying the best equipment? Even the broker who supplies this equipment said in an interview that we did not get the best equipment with this order, what was described. But since it was about negotiating as much money as there was music, in short, we'll get worse equipment. It is necessary to determine whether this business really needs an intermediary. Could it not have been better than the custom in all other countries, and so far there have been more or less cases in which the state, the ministry, the logistics department or whatever it is called, in the Ministry of Defence, directly negotiates, negotiates and concludes the most favourable business for the country. It is necessary to determine whether this intermediary was really needed or whether it was due to any inclinations, anyone - that is to say, it is the holders of public powers, which is first of all identified as a responsibility in this process - whether it was on demand, need, expectation, this intermediary is necessary because of other opinions of unknown purposes. Therefore, I believe it is possible to do relatively quickly what is to be done today. And to make it easier for the National Assembly, it is also for the public to get answers as soon as possible to where this business is headed. So much money, which, compared to other purchases both in health care, education and elsewhere, is simply impossible to go without control, without clear explanations in the National Assembly passed. I would like to say two more words about whether we were willing to discuss bringing this second investigation into line with what was required. We talked a lot. I would like to reiterate that in this investigation 8x8 a full procedure, a discussion, a request for a presentation of the data was made. We didn't get them. The government, the minister and others refused to do so and the logical conclusion is an investigative commission. In this second part, however, it is a matter of having these preliminary tasks, in order to deal with any debate in the framework of working bodies, in the context of questions sent or in any way, in these two years and for a few months. I think that there is every possibility of doubting certain past purchases. Let me also let everyone deal with and clear up, but it has to be perfectly clear that when we say, we do an 8x8 investigation to do it, we come up with results, and then we can discuss all other things, we can investigate. I have neither personally nor our Group of Members in this regard. Mistaking alone would not be good to bring into this discussion. I am convinced that, given the law that is clear and the rules of procedure on parliamentary investigation, there will be every need for the commission to be set up after today's meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u3	Thank you. Mr Juri will also speak on behalf of the proposer. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u4	Colleagues and colleagues, nice day. With the question of armor 8X8, we have been doing a lot of work in the last few months, and perhaps I will repeat my colleague Anderlich. At regular and urgent meetings of the Defence Committee, at a visit that we made at the Ministry itself in order to see in the utmost secrecy the documentation of the invitation to tender, we held an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on this subject. There was a lot of publicity with armored personnel, the media were monitoring our work, carrying out the whole sent - from the call to the choice, to the signing of the contract. We've learned a lot of things, we've learned how much it's going to cost, we don't know, 66.6 billion dollars is for once covered in the purchase contract -- that's 278 million euros, a contract that opens the door to the outflow of still heavy other millions, that 135 armoured men will be fully trained and operational, we know that something will have to be added in the coming years. A deal that will end somehow in 2012, 2013, a deal that is still open. And more than we asked, we received more or less convincing answers from the government. But all the answers opened up a new front of questions, a new front of guesses and dilemmas. So we have come to realize that unfortunately this business is so deep and has so many hidden mechanisms that it needs to be pursued in a different way, it needs to be pursued peacefully, professionally, with all the receptions that can only be carried out by an investigative commission as an investigative body. In peace, too, so that the Committee on Defence will no longer deal with this issue, but will devote its attention to many other issues and questions relating to the area covered by it. It is, defence, security, protection, rescue, state in the Slovenian Army. Also what is sometimes said to be happening within the army, the issue of our participation in foreign missions, how they are taking place, the control of this cooperation, whether our soldiers are safe and satisfied and so on. Thus, we have decided that this is, of course, the time to arrive in a year and a half, as far as we have left before the end of our term of office, to the truths or to the more information that we have received so far. That's why, of course, the commission of inquiry. The deal is supposed to be, and I believe that we will examine it relative to documentation, protagonists, intermediaries, "ideators", inducers, relatively accessible. That this investigation is necessary proves, as colleague Anderlich has already said, that a lot of things have begun to move around this initiative. All of a sudden, after we filed and it was right to keep this request secret until the last one, a second request emerged, namely, following an investigation into other transactions from previous mandates, from under the past governments, which were equally controversial, suspicious and which should be investigated. We don't object. It is surprising, however, that when the signatories of the other requirements, when they were in the supervisory function, were in opposition, when they also presided over the Defence Committee and monitored all the transactions concluded by the then governments and did not give any indication that there was any suspicion that any of these transactions would be disputed at that time, today, when it is significantly harder to investigate, they appear with such a request. At that time, it was time for the waves, for the falcon, for the pillatus, for the control systems, and so on, and also for the repair and retraining of tanks. But then there was no interest, then there was no doubt. The only thing that has happened has happened, not because of suspicion that there is something unclean around the Falcon, because it was superstandard, too expensive, overextended for a little modest Slovenia, but that in any case they would suspect that something was not "numbered", of course there were no signs. Today this requirement appears and is its intention, I think it is completely clear to the public and to all of us: to blurt out and make it difficult even if it makes it impossible for the commission of inquiry proposed by us [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] We only have a year and a half until the end of our term. When we were looking for an opportunity and an agreement, maybe a compromise to unify all the demands into a single committee that was supposed to deal with all the issues, and from 8x8 all the way back to the purchase of pillatus, 6x6 and the rest, someone also from the coalition types, from the signatories of the new requirement admitted that even so [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Experience has shown that there is no way that they could have done any business or investigation to the end. [[...]] We want this to happen. We have this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The parliamentary inquiry has, of course, been established in the majority or in all parliamentary democracies. In such an investigation, we will, of course, be working with our member on such a committee, as we have been involved so far in the debate on this issue, as the initiators point out in this proposal. We support, it is not a question of support or non-support, we will participate in this committee with our member, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u7	Thank you. Dr. Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There must be no doubt about the shadow of a military order as large as Slovenia has not yet had and has not carried out. How much this business is actually going to cost us, what we're going to get for this money. We have not received the right answer to these questions at an extraordinary meeting on this subject. The questions remained unanswered and some new questions arose. Therefore, it is quite logical for the opposition to try to resolve these issues in the form prescribed, established, and this is in the form of this commission of inquiry. I think it is important to point out that the establishment of such a commission can help to make the deal more transparent, that the actors that I think are too involved in this business are too interlocutors, that these actors will be more careful to avoid actions that they would otherwise have done if there were no such control. Our role as the opposition, together with the members of the coalition, is to reach the truth through such an investigative commission or at least where it can be achieved. At the same time, we have also heard an initiative to add to this investigative task an additional investigative task on the purchase of weapons from before, I do not know how many, 10 or 12 years. I am saying this first in my personal name, but also on behalf of the group, that I have no particular doubt that such research and investigation would not have been carried out, although, as has already been said, there were many defence committees led by the current coalition, which was once an opposition, and could have done so. If anyone, then those of us who were in the government at that time, are interested in things coming in the day and also showing up, if they were wrong, that they were wrong. At the same time, we are not particularly excited that this ongoing business should be mixed and added with the so-called past burdens, if I may use this term. We believe that there are sufficient instruments and arguments to be able to set up a special commission of inquiry if you think this is necessary. Besides, I think it said "with a book above a book" was very good in the old days, because we got information with this that they didn't intend to close everyone if they would write otherwise, but with an investigative committee it's an unnecessary and very expensive rule. At the same time, I would also like to mention that the Commission of Inquiry needs to be taken seriously. I certainly feel that the coalition's representatives, in particular, take the investigation commission as a pranger and a scene for charges, justified or unjustifiable, not in fact as what should be a sober, objective, impartial assessment of certain open issues, in a way that confronts multiple views, coalition and opposition. Let us be so naive and take the commission really, as it must be, and not as a tool for cursing, you could even say whether to attack one or the other. We will not participate in such committees. However, we will always participate in commissions that will contribute to clarifying certain issues. That is why this idea, by investigating the investigation in fact and in our opinion, is more than a reflection of some forgotten opposition position of the current coalition and will certainly not contribute to improving relations in this House. Let me get this straight. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will support this investigative commission, and we will participate in it. We have nothing to do with exploring the old burdens, too. However, we want the old burdens not to interfere with the current issue, and we expect to be able to make that decision at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u10	Your Honors are here! I would like to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group through two time points. Let me first identify myself or introduce you to someone who is less time-consuming. Yesterday, as part of an information broadcast, Minister Erjavec, Minister of Defence, replied to my question or claim, the man responsible for this most expensive investment in the history of Slovenian defence or army, that these armoured men were bought solely because of contracts to NATO. In my opinion, this is an extremely poor and offensive argument. The fact is that none of you who supported Slovenia's entry into NATO's military organisation highlighted this argument in the context of the referendum paid by the State in order to convince Slovenia and Slovenia that it is necessary to enter the NATO military organisation because of the Slovenian threat. During that period, we were told, in addition to what today turns out to be an untruth, that defence costs would be reduced to reduce the entire military machinery. In addition, we were told that from the moment Slovenia joins this military organisation, it will no longer have problems with territorial integrity. That turned out not to be true. But to get back to the subject and to the argument of Secretary of Defense, Mr. Erjavac, around Nate and armored 8x8. Therefore, if the Minister claims or argues his decisions with such flat-rate or uncomplained replies, it would be reasonable to set up an investigative committee for the purpose of determining where the legal basis for the purchase of 25 medium-sized wheeled vehicles is 8x8. The fact is that there is only an extremely large gap between contractual obligations and obligations arising solely from Mr Erjavac's domain of thought. Once again, it must be pointed out that the purchase of these vehicles was the largest, most costly investment in the field of territorial defence or the defence or military sector within our country. From this title, I think it makes sense to set up an investigative commission with a content that can be determined within the existing mandate. Today, as the commission's tasks to define 100 and some cases, we all know that none will be solved, but at least from this title, to see how much they hold or better said, how much they do not hold the word of the Minister of Defence, who is the main actor in the area, Mr Erjavac, would make sense to find a basis or exist or disappear. And we all know there's no such thing as buying 25 so-called medium armored vehicles 8x8. However, I said in the introduction that I would give the position of the Slovenian National Party in two moments. I started yesterday in the context of the show, where the minor topic also revolved around area 8x8 and the poverty of the Slovenian government. I would like to define the moment that took place about 30 days ago and took place in this National Assembly. When I personally and some of my fellow Members from the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group spoke to the other members of the opposition and reached an agreement that the "lumparia" carried out by individual ministers within the Slovenian government would be on our hands. The agreement was made by the Slovenian National Party and by, not or, but also by various Members and Members coming from the opposition party. The deal was that we would step on Mr Erjavac's fingers, not because the President of DeSUS is far from this, but mainly because he spends so much money that we know who is filling it under the budget, that we will step on the minister who pays the bills without making the orders, Mr Sponik. And 30 days ago, there was no doubt that we would work together both substantively and in the framework of the applicants of the two requirements. But the matter was written in two time dimensions. The first was the written matter that we are dealing with today. Members of the National Party have adhered to the agreement, given their signatures. A few days after you received the contents of the second commission of inquiry, that is, those who, not only to the public, but especially to the President of the Government, would commit themselves to being aware of what ministers he has in his Government, the other Members did not wish to sign. From this point of view, I wonder whether it is correct that the agreements we have, and if we are already using together in individual elements the weapons that the Parliamentary of the State gives us, and this is also an investigative commission, the weapons that a group of Members have to forget about these arrangements within 30 days. That within the next 30, no, but we won't approach here, despite the fact that there was a speech a few days ago, of course, no problem. And from this title, from this second dimension of time, ladies and gentlemen, I tell you above all, in the opposition, that we have lost confidence in the National Party or faith in people who change their minds in such a small time or perhaps just lie. How, then, can such people be trusted to carry out their role in the commission of inquiry in a credible manner? Like I said, they both performed. I believe that buying 8x8 was a disastrous business for the state and was extremely good for individuals. And because I believe and I know, I've always been sure that society is over individuals, that society is over the minister or the government, it's not right for the National Assembly to close its eyes and say, well, that was the minister's signature, so let's move on. It's not right. It's not right just to get to the bottom of things. According to my assessment, the task of the investigative commissions is primarily one. This is to transparently remove the person responsible for such signatures from future business. In fact, we all know that there are very few people in our country who come from politics, governments or them close to being held personally accountable for anything. I personally do not believe and I know that none of you, even if we prove that Mr Erjavec did not have any - except perhaps an individual capital interest - basis for the purchase of those additional 25 vehicles to do so in any way personally. No matter what it is, and I don't want to sound populism here, almost a quarter, just 25 vehicles to the Oncology Institute. But it won't. We all know that. It would have been good enough, at least in this area, for such a person who enters into such harmful contracts to move away from the power that gives him content to sign and pay the money that we pay to citizens and citizens in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. But from a second address, from the loss of faith in the other opposition Members, who in my opinion, within a month, have made a very, very bad move, which they have lied to, the members of the National Party will decide in the context of the votes and you will convince them of the content in question during today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u12	Thank you very much and very much. I will briefly present the position of the DeSUS Group, as if in our Group of Members, that the investigation would be short, that it would be effective, that it would produce results and that one of the experiments in the history to date would also be completed. So far, much has been done with regard to the subject matter of this investigation, we allow the possibility that something has been wrong, we allow the possibility that those committees, the commissions, the courts that have discussed it so far have found the right situation. The following were noted: 5 times the Committee on the Economy, 1 times the National Assembly, the Commission for Budgetary Control and Other Finance, the State Audit Commission, the District Court, the Administrative Court, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, a review of part of the documentation was given to the company authorised by Ravne, the Share Company, and the municipality of Ravne in Koroška. The result so far, which is not necessarily complete, can also be found to be something else - we allow this theoretical option, but it is not the most likely one, found that no illegality has been identified in the procedures so far, nor the shortcomings or other irregularities related to the rules that govern this area. The interest in this investigation is in fact also a public interest, because it is a big project because it is an important resource in our society. This public interest was also encouraged by a number of debates, which were mainly more of an accusation than an investigation. We hope that the commission will investigate in the future, so it will also be named, and will not only take over the deboning functions, just the functions of putting someone in a bad light. The government has decided on this purchase, the contract is signed, the transactions will only be realized and the time to investigate and the proof of correctness will probably be something more. Otherwise, the DeSUS Group supports the establishment of an investigative commission and also supports what is recorded in the request for this establishment. And here is another 38, now I hope that the remaining 32 opposition signatories continue to insist that it is therefore very important for the investigation, in relation to armored 8x8, to investigate the past arms trade, which is extremely important. We judge that it is right for them to carry out what they have foretold. In a document that, later on in the works, those who have submitted this request have forgotten, and we want to remind them of this, so it is probable that by referring to what I have quoted, what I have read from their document, we expect that the investigation will extend to those transactions which they themselves claim are extremely important and that it is a matter of past trade. So not only for 8x8, but for everything else that's connected to this department and a lot of important purchases or arms trafficking. This, I'd say, is a 13-year-old memory hole, from 1993 to 2007, it seems too big for us, and it would be a mistake to miss it. This is also in the public interest. Therefore, the DeSUS Group will support this public interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Robert Hrovat will move the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! In the beginning, I would say that in the last days, a lot of ink has been spilled on the subject of the 8x8 Armouring Commission. It is right to clarify some of the dilemmas and decisions that may indeed raise some doubts and concerns in the case of opposition colleagues. Today we are here to clarify and clarify some things. As we have heard many times before, since the selection of the 8x8 vehicle provider, which has been and we probably agree, all of us, chosen on the basis of a legitimate invitation to tender and legal procedure, have begun to put a lot of pressure on the Ministry of Defence. A request for an extraordinary meeting by opposition Members also came forward. I also share the view, given the political pressures of some opposition Members, that all these problems would not have been the case if a company that has not been selected was selected on the call. Let me also remind you of the words of the Minister at the meeting of the National Assembly when he informed the public of the actions against the selection procedure and the provisional orders and that all provisional orders were rejected and unfounded by the Court. All decisions of the court were in the interest of the Ministry of Defence and no irregularity or illegality was found in the selection procedure. The project of buying medium-sized armoured vehicles 8x8 is linked to the provision of the most important military capacity, which we committed ourselves to in 2004, which means that the decision was taken at the time of the rule of the Liberal Democracy, which is further surprising what some opposition Members are now making about this matter. I am convinced that if the government were still under the leadership of the Liberal Democracy, we would praise the decision they are now denying. I do not see the real reason for this, but I am pleased that the public is also aware of the duality of some parliamentarians. At the time of entry into full membership of the Union, then the purchase of 135 armoured 8x8 was in line with the objectives of the forces of the Alliance and the equipment of the Slovenian Army, which was adopted by the National Assembly in July 2004. The main purpose of the purchase is to develop the Slovenian Armed Forces' motorised battalions in the long term as key combat and military capabilities, which at the same time represent the integration of the Slovenian Armed Forces within the collective defence system established by NATO. The purchase of 135 armored weapons 8x8 with five different weapons configurations was envisaged and was listed as a planned value of 63 tolars at the time. Following the consideration of this programme in the Defence Committee of the National Assembly in September 2005, we were fully informed and received a new proposal [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the 2006 alliance, which will need to be taken into account after harmonisation in the preparation of the new medium-term defence programme for the period 2007-2012. [[..]] In line with the NATO defence planning process, as is well known to the opposition, medium-term programmes are reviewed and updated every two years. Much of the objectives of the 2006 Alliance Force have not changed compared to the objectives of the Alliance Force in 2004, but some of the objectives related to the development of motorised battalions and the formation of the Slovenian Armed Forces battalions have changed. In the new mandate, the 8x8 Armouring Procurement Project was launched as a priority in early 2005, as it depends on the establishment of our country's most important military capabilities. Postponing this project means a delay in ensuring, within the framework of the Alliance, commitments undertaken, which are clearly defined in time. The deadlines adopted in 2004 at the time of entry into the Alliance to achieve the most important capacity in the long term were extremely short and their implementation was therefore extremely difficult. Having entered into an alliance is an essential part of the credibility of each country, i.e. Slovenia. We have heard many recent statements by the current opposition that the treaty concluded was harmful. Members of the Committee have had more than once the opportunity to make sure that the Treaty was extremely important for the development of the Slovenian Army, for the credibility of our country within the framework of NATO, but also represents a great benefit and opportunity for the Slovenian economy, as many new jobs will open up. Probably this, i.e. the possibility of developing and opening up additional jobs, disturbs the opposition, as this avoids the possibility of obtaining any more votes in the elections. If I quickly list just a few important findings so far, I would mention that with the purchase of 135 armoured 8X8 we have provided a key and priority weapon system and the main equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, as the vehicles will be in use for more than 20 years. We have bought a modern, efficient, medium-rounded vehicle, provided a high level of anti-ballistic and anti-mine protection, which is particularly important now that the Slovenian Army participates in crisis missions where the protection and security of our soldiers is the most important and of course in the first place. We have successfully agreed that the contractor will ensure production in our country in 2008 and that the Slovenian industry will cooperate with 30% of its share in terms of the value of the entire contract, which means more than 1200 new jobs, while for the remaining 70% of the value of the contract, the contractor has assumed responsibility and the obligation to purchase goods or services in Slovenia worth EUR 161 million in the form of supplies. The vehicles purchased are also equipped with emergency electronic and communication equipment. This avoided the major problems and problems faced by the Ministry and, in particular, the Slovenian Armed Forces when purchasing light armoured vehicles 6X6, which had just been retrofitted and equipped with this type of equipment and other systems, resulting in major delays in the operational use of these vehicles. And I could count it, but for once that much. If I sum up the point, then I find that by a contract concluded on 19 December 2006, we bought 135 armoured 8X8s worth €278 million, including more than €46 million. This means that this money is essentially kept in the budget. The price of 135 vehicles with weapons configurations and vehicles to be upgraded is €258.5 million. This is information which is publicly known, verifiable and, as such, completely rejects the opposition's arguments on the injury of the contract. I would also point out that the total amount of the contract concluded does not exceed the current medium-term programme of the planned funds, nor the appropriations set out in the 2008 budget, nor the limits laid down in the Law on the Implementation of the Slovenian Armed Forces’ Basic Development Programmes in 2008-2015. The opposition, as one of the arguments, also uses the option to better buy 25 vehicles with weapons that are now purchased in the basic implementation with certain adjustments. The Ministry's explanations explained that instead of deciding to buy 25 vehicles in basic implementation with certain adjustments, we could also provide purchases with weapons, which would not make sense, and probably, at least on the inside, also agree with the opposition. In my opinion, it would be even harmful as the 25 vehicles mentioned should be processed, their destination changed and so on. The Defence Committee has been kept informed of the structure and type of armored vehicles purchased. You probably still remember the meeting this January when we were presented with a contract to buy 8x8 bikes. In the closed part of the meeting, we were explained the entire structure of all 135 vehicles purchased. This can be confirmed by fellow Members who attended this meeting. Representatives of the General Staff also gave us a detailed presentation of the equipment of individual units with purchased vehicles. I would also point out the incorrect claims made by opposition colleagues that only after signing the contract did the Minister say that electronic and communication equipment is financed under the programme to provide this type of equipment. An integral part of the single procurement procedure is also the necessary electronic and communication equipment for combat management, and we have been informed by the members of the committee since the presentation of the offer documentation, so it can be justified to the opposition that it claims or points out that they have not been informed of this. The process of selecting the most favourable bidder was also in accordance with our rules of the game. However, this approach was decided mainly because of poor experience in the subsequent upgrade of light armoured vehicles 6x6. Some now claim that the offer documentation was too loose, but that is not true. It was prepared to allow a privileged position for the tenderer, i.e. the State as the contracting authority. However, the fact is that if we had acted differently, such a demanding and long-term project could probably not have been implemented in a successful and timely manner. The next eyewitness of the opposition refers to the supply hand, which means it's too long. In previous discussions on the purchase under consideration, delivery deadlines were also disputed for some opposition Members. Under the contract concluded, the contractor must start supplying vehicles with 2008 and the latter with 2013. The first test vehicle will be provided in the second half of 2007. The deadlines have been set out more ambitiously in the supply documentation in order to ensure that the tenderers are as close to them as possible. The deadlines agreed by the Treaty follow the deadlines of the new 2007-2012 medium-term administrative programme, which we are aware of, should at least be known to the members of our committee, as they were also presented to us. If you look at and check the previous medium-term defence programme 2005-2010, you will find that there were unrealistic deadlines, as they were concluded already in 2010. This means that the last 135 vehicles would be delivered in 2010. If we were to conclude a contract with such a supply dynamic, we would actually purchase armoured vehicles for garages, as supplies must also be followed by the organisational, human and other design of the units to be used by the vehicles under consideration. In other words, if we want to follow the dynamics adopted in 2004, the 8x8 Armouring Contract should be concluded by the former Minister of Defence in 2004. In this respect, too, it is a long-term project and it is not possible to ignore all its dimensions. This further confirms that the specific medium-term defence programme is, above all, a guidance document and, therefore, the evidence of long delivery deadlines is certainly rejected, and we are probably all in agreement, if not in public, but at least in ourselves. Let me conclude, therefore, that, in terms of military-strategic and tactical decisions, the decision on the weapons system, which is, at the world summit itself, both after security and in terms of tactical and technical characteristics, is perfectly correct, valid and fully justified. If we recall an extraordinary meeting on this subject, I would remind you that the National Assembly at that time overwhelmingly supported the conclusions that the Minister had made it possible to control the use of budgetary money, since we have informed Members of all the details of the Treaty. The Minister also did not mislead the National Assembly and the public as the contract was concluded in accordance with the tendering conditions. And the last. The contract brings extremely great benefits to the Slovenian economy. From all of this we can conclude that the purchase was justified and in accordance with the Slovenian Armed Forces' core development programmes. In our parliamentary group, we are pleased that by establishing an investigative commission and a final report once and for all, we will reject the doubts and concerns of opposition Members and Members, while at the same time we are disappointed at the opposition's decision to extend the parliamentary investigation to a period since the launch of the TRPs, i.e. from 1994 to 2003, when the famous purchases of 6x6 were made. Let me mention that, in this business, as many as 26 contracts and annexes to contracts have been signed, the purchase of Falcone, which was never envisaged from defence funds, the renewal of T55 tanks - here we ask ourselves about the very usefulness of renewal - more contracts have also been signed, the purchase of Havbice, which were later withdrawn from use, the whole type of contracts signed, the purchase of Pilatus military aircraft, which today do not serve their purpose. Yesterday, on that show that my colleague was talking about, we heard some other things. And I could even list it. But no, the opposition doesn't want to take these purchases under observation at the same time. I wonder why? But I think the answer is clear to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Aurelio Juri will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u16	Thank you, President. Social Democrats, the Group of Members will support the act of enforcement of the parliamentary inquiry on the basis of the signature of 32 Members and Members. I've already explained in the introduction why we went to this request. And let me disprove every thesis immediately so that we don't want to investigate any other business that has preceded it. For this there is every possibility of establishing an appropriate investigative commission, and we will also cooperate with it. But I initially said that we were surprised that those who proposed such an investigation then had all the threads, all the levers, all the possibilities, it was time, the deals were more up-to-date, it would have been easier to search them, but then it didn't happen. Only today, when we have proposed an investigation into one current business that has just been concluded, has it not yet been realized. Here is this blind and difficult maneuver clear. Once again, if another commission is set up to investigate pillatus, 6x6 tanks, we will cooperate. We have heard a colleague from another opposition party who has also contributed to the initial signatures at this request that a gentleman's agreement be made to support their investigation into another matter. On behalf of the Social Democrats, I do not know of such an agreement, so I am surprised that it has been exposed. Nevertheless, I expect that this Group of Members and Members will not only support the Commission, but also actively involve itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Moge will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. All in attendance, all in attendance! Allow me to present in brief the proposal for a position of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia with a request for a parliamentary inquiry. The events that followed the request for a parliamentary inquiry into the purchase of 8x8 armoured personnel have only confirmed that our decision was correct for this step. Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Defence, did not have any objections to making a request, only that it would be wise for him to examine some military acquisitions from the past, as he said that several past purchases were inadequate or functionally unusable. We are wondering what he was doing with the transfer of business and more than two years as a minister, since he had all the resources, instruments and, above all, access to information. We have decided to set up a parliamentary inquiry because, despite extraordinary meetings and months of meetings of the Defence Committee and various initiatives, we still have not been able to answer completely simple basic questions. First time. How much will this business really cost us? We know that it has been estimated at EUR 258 million, but we do not know how much equipment will cost, and if we do not know how to respond now and buy the basics, then we can be blackmailed for this equipment. Another time. Why did the state decide to broker the business? We do not understand that since the government has more than 30,000 employees on its staff list, some 34,000 of them, in fact, need to seek an institution outside the government to conduct this business for a fat commission, while it would certainly be more appropriate for national security to make this purchase within the institutions that we have, rather than empowering someone who may not have even been screened for security purposes and who is running into the acquisition of military equipment. The purchase of these armoured personnel is, as I have already said, a military business that Slovenia has not yet had. It will cost at least EUR 62 billion or EUR 258 million, which is more than a quarter of a billion, and it seems to us that it is such money, when there is not enough money for the Clinical Center, when there is not enough money for some schools, when we have problems in the field of health, in the field of science - see what happens at the University of Primorska, that we give such money with our left hand and country, we seem to be sorry, ladies and gentlemen, questionable from the point of view of the quality of life in the Republic of Slovenia. It is good and not to say here ex cathedral to find out only through the commission, I do not believe these people who say with their left hand that it is true that it is right that it is not behind this pay phone, to determine whether the exercise of the supervision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia over the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Army has been knowingly delayed and difficult. From experience in the past, I can say with certainty that the Ministry of Defence, and not under this Minister, has certainly delayed the work of the investigative commissions and of the working bodies of the National Assembly and has made it difficult. I think it is necessary to clarify whether both the invitation to tender and the signature of the contract for the purchase of these infantry armoured vehicles have been carried out in accordance with the rules and guidelines adopted by either the National Assembly and either the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. To find out why and how the purchase was made through an intermediary, there is much more to talk about. And it is likely that what is known so far is not enough to give one mer departmental assessment of purchases to identify direct and direct links between natural and legal persons and public function holders involved in both the sale and production of medium-sized wheeled vehicles. We know that there are several senior representatives of political parties involved in this business, who are until recently, or who are still sitting on the executive boards of political parties, who are very close to the people who run the political scene in Slovenia, which makes it clear that there is a connection between handing the business over to this particular provider and not to anyone else. It is interesting that the red thread is drawn from the past, to establish a direct and indirect link between the current players in the arms trade and public function holders, as in a specific case the purchase of medium-sized wheeled vehicles 8X8 also occurs to persons who were indirectly or directly linked to the arms trade in the period 1991 to 1993, which has never been fully investigated. Despite the different facts, the Minister of Defence is still insisting and voicing that the Republic of Slovenia, due to the changed objectives of the Union, has then had to change the composition of the individual configurations and that 25 armoured 8x8 is in the so-called basic configuration and constitutes the basis for achieving the capability to survey, linkage, engineering support and logistics, adding that if they were to acquire the upgrades of these 25 vehicles, they would be in breach of the law and regulation, as the purchase of vehicles with such superstructures after the 2005-2010 medium-term defence programme was not envisaged, but only 135 combat vehicles were envisaged. With this latest version of the justification for the purchase of 8x8 armor in the basic configuration, which he advocated at an extraordinary session, the minister caught himself on a lie, in our opinion. For the first time, if the above is true, where does the Minister then base his purchase of 8x8 armors in the basic configuration, which form the basis for achieving exploration, communications, engineering support and logistics, if, as he has stated, there is no basis for them or in the medium-term defence programme or in the tender, as only combat vehicles were envisaged. On the basis of the above, according to him, he had a basis only for the purchase of war vehicles. Then why did the Republic of Slovenia not buy in the medium-term defence programme 2005-2010 and in the invitation to tender the envisaged combat vehicles, this is five configurations, and for those missing 25 armoured 8x8 launched a new call. We estimate that the Minister of Defence's claim was made at an extraordinary meeting, misleading and another attempt to substantiate the purchase of 25 armored 8x8 in the basic configuration that was not foreseen in the invitation to tender for which he tried to prove that he had kept promises regarding the price and configuration of 8x8. A few more words why we also included in the investigation the period from 1991 to 1993, which the coalition thus avoids. The main part of the requirement concerns the identification of possible involvement and political responsibility of public function holders and of directly or indirectly linked natural and legal persons in the purchase of 8x8. However, since there is a suspicion or suspicion that the current actors are one and the same who have been involved in the arms trade between 1991 and 1993, which has not yet received a political epilogue, it seems necessary for us to include this part in the investigation. The decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to extend the parliamentary investigation into arms trafficking to all arms trade on and through the territory of the Republic of Slovenia during the period 1991-1993 shows that there are several persons who were then interviewed as witnesses, even today, at least indirectly, associated with the choice of an 8x8 armoured car manufacturer for the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, all the parliamentary investigations so far on arms trafficking, two have been established in the years 1991 to date, and no conclusions have been reached. In addition to parliamentary investigations, in all the mandates of the National Assembly, arms trade has also been the subject of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to oversee the work of the intelligence and security services. Thus to date, the National Assembly has adopted a number of decisions on arms trafficking, all of which, ladies and gentlemen, have remained unrealised or partially realized, in the light of the reports of the Commission, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the interim reports of the investigative commissions so far since 1991. As regards arms trade between 1991 and 1993, the fact that the Republic of Slovenia sold large quantities of weapons, military equipment, ammunition and mine explosives to the Republic of Croatia, in particular Bosnia and Herzegovina, during the critical period. At that time, the UN arms embargo applied to the sale of arms to countries in the territory of the former SFRJ, and therefore there is no formal record of such trade. To this day, there has been no clear suspicion that the arms trade has involved the abuse of persons in public authorities or other persons involved in the arms trade. Recently, as more and more border complications with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia have arisen, there are concerns in the public that the Republic of Croatia should have certain documents from that time period with which it could blackmail the Republic of Slovenia. Such and other indications, which occur from time to time in connection with arms trade between 1991 and 1993, only harm the Republic of Slovenia, so it is time, in our opinion, to draw up a comprehensive picture of this period and that the issue receives at least a political epilogue and that the story ends once and for all for the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, a few words about the coalition's request and the proposal to extend the case or the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry by buying from 1994 to 2007. We cannot possibly land because it is clear from far away that in this case it is mainly a political decision that wants to divert attention from the purchase of armored 8x8, where the object has been littered with all possible purchases and from planes to waves 6x6. When it was known that a parliamentary investigation would be set up at the request of 32 Members and Members, the coalition presented its request and proposed its enlargement, otherwise if the position did not accept their extension proposal, they would establish their own to investigate all purchases from 1994 to 2007, with at least one purchase being forgotten or deliberately released in their request. We are thinking of buying a mobile military hospital Role 2 for which the Minister has publicly stated that the purchase was inadequate and with which the Minister has major problems using it. Not only have they clearly chosen the period from 1994 to 2007, explaining that the law on the provision of funds for the implementation of the fundamental development programmes of the defence forces of the Republic of Slovenia in 1994 to 2003, but the requirement itself has been written very superficially, since it also included armored 8x8 with a single sentence and even forgot that a new law on the basic development programmes of the Slovenian Armed Forces has been adopted in the current mandate, as this was a necessary prerequisite for the purchase of armoured persons 8x8. In addition, the two Commissions of Inquiry cannot deal with the same matter. At the same time, it is worth stressing that the achievement of the Commission's objective will be very difficult, since the Commission has only one year and a few months to achieve the objective. In addition, it has sufficient tools paid from the taxpayer's money to clarify irregularities and sanction them legally if they have occurred. The affairs caused by the control of the Owl are also part of the manoeuvre to avoid careful monitoring of the work of the commission of inquiry and to focus entirely on other areas. So far, we have witnessed in the National Assembly that, apart from the Zámník Commission, no commission has been successful, [[Mr Jerovšek, if you want to speak, you will have your chance; otherwise, at this point I would remind you that, as Chairman of the Committee on International Relations, you are acting in accordance with the morality that goes also to your function in favour of]] . I would say the following: the work was not finished, nor was there any investigator, which means that the work of these committees was barren. I, ladies and gentlemen, expect, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy, that this Commission will work successfully to complete its work in one way or another and thus transfer part of the catharsis to the National Assembly. I forgive myself if I've been a little long so you could listen for a long time. I want to keep having a good day.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Good day to Members of Parliament and also to our guests on the balcony! I'm not going to be as long as my predecessor was, because I don't think today's session is meant to clear this matter up, but it's meant for essentially just one basic thing, it's the establishment of this commission of inquiry. The new Slovenia-Christian People's Party is a democratic party. That way, he knows what the Constitution brings, what the law and the rules of procedure on the establishment of the commission of inquiry bring. We do not challenge the right of Members and Members to decide and propose or submit a request for an investigative commission. The advantage of democracy is also that everyone can create his own opinion on everything. However, this advantage of democracy does not yet mean that there are more truths. There is only one truth, even though more people feel differently about the same matter. We also know that it is a very important control exercised by Parliament over the work of the government. We are also personally and, in the opinion of the New Slovenia Group, convinced that the Defence Committee has carried out and is exercising very good control, including control over the purchase of 8x8. If I can say a little in a joke, everyone says they're doing what's right, but if someone's looking at their fingers, they're doing a little more of an effort to work under their fingertips, so we're very supportive of control. True, when a person receives a variety of explanations, someone accepts them, understands them, and others still question them. And if I just fly through this period of purchase of these armors, how things have been going on, I must first stop when the supplier of these armors was known, first question was whether this choice was correct or whether there were other matters behind. And we have already had an extraordinary session on the Defence Committee, where we have been accurately presented with the whole beginning of this process. Since the notification was sent to eight potential tenderers within the European Union, five tenderers have been invited to respond to this offer, namely Systemic Technology and Rotis. That we were familiar with all the criteria that we had in mind, even scoring according to individual criteria. So personally, we have come up with a clear decision on the selection of the bidder. That's how this first thing went down, but only for a short time. After the contract was signed, the question immediately arose, yes, but now we don't know what we bought. Meetings of the Defence Committee were followed again, closed meetings of the Defence Committee. We had a closed meeting at the Ministry of Defence, where members of the Committee could really look at all the documentation, from the invitation to tender received and then to the signed contract. And today, talking about not knowing what we bought with this contract is, in my opinion, unserious. I think it is clear to everyone that we have bought 135 medium-sized armoured personnel, 110 of which have weapons upgrades and 25 armoured personnel who do not have these upgrades, that they still have electronic communications equipment and that it cost EUR 278 million. The fact that an upgrade is necessary for 25 armoured men, which is not yet determined, buys, I think it is also perfectly clear to everyone, and that this upgrade will also cost something, personally I think it is perfectly clear to everyone as well. The opposition Members do not like to look at other matters brought about by this Treaty. One more thing I have to say is that it's a very big deal in this purchase, really a huge deal, and we all agree. And here the New Slovenia Group agrees that it is very important that things are clear, transparent and that there is no doubt about the irrational, unjustifiable use of these funds, as our party also advocates that the social state which would provide its citizens with all the basic goods that are needed. And if I make a little joke about it, even though it's not a good idea to joke about it, I'd like to personally see that we have things in order for health care, the cancer institute, we have too many patients who need the care of this institute, so I have to say that we will also support and participate in this commission. However, the difference is that, at least for the time being, there is no doubt on our part that this is an irrational use. I must also say that with the Treaty itself, there have also been many benefits for our economy that have been agreed, and this contractually agreed, many new jobs that have been agreed on, as well as a number of counter-supply, EUR 161 million is foreseen, and it is therefore no wonder that even the Minister of Defence is striving to be able to engage the Slovenian economy in this anti-supply project. Let me conclude this presentation by our Group of Members. We advocate that things are clear and clear, that the use of budgetary resources is rational, so we have no doubts that we would not participate in this commission of inquiry, even though we do not see, we have no doubt that this purchase was made illegally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u21	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u22	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Of course, we have talked about the purchase of armored 8X8 in the National Assembly, but certainly everything that has been said - all the answers have not been sufficient, it seems insufficient, and when something is insufficient, it is necessary to correct, so it is good to set up an investigative commission that will answer still open questions. In previous speeches, we have heard a number of things that speak in favour and, of course, those that speak out of favor of this purchase. However, the Commission of Inquiry should determine whether the matters are so pure that the Ministry and the Ministry will be cleared of suspicions, or whether they will have to be held accountable. That's the most important thing. But at the beginning, we have severe imbalances, differences. 66.6 billion in one document, in another 63. I think those esoteric 666s will be the right thing to say it's business that's definitely not clean. Many hours ago, I did not count everything that was said here, but many hours were devoted primarily to answers. Mr Minister and the General Staff have answered a number of questions, but at least for the Minister, I can say that he was as responsible as a child who had done something wrong. When we asked him one question, he answered with another answer. When asked a little more detail, he drew again a new excuse on the day, not answers, but excuses. That's when I said homeopathic response, it's called droplets, a little bit as tight as it got, and he remembered something again. Not only did we get different answers when the question was raised in the open, but the General Staff and the Minister. This has aroused suspicion that it is not a pure cause. That it is a lot of things that are blurry, which is undiscovered, untransparent, as they are said, is said to be imprudent in Slovenian, so things need to be looked at. But it's big money, it's money to find something like 135 new schools in comparison, about the cost of these shells. The answers that remain in the air or questions that have not been answered are at least three. Did the contract at all comply with the invitation to tender? There are certain differences regarding configurations, weapons, delivery deadlines, not to mention those unusual contradictions that have cumulative, but we do not know what that will be. What did this cumulative come from? Where did this supply countervalue number come from? Probably from the air because we don't have any tangible stuff. Are those eggs, or are they machines, or are they books, or what will that be? There's nothing. Another question that has not been answered. Why did the state decide to take Patrick's decision to be represented by Rotis? So we have a disputed mediator, an unnecessary intermediary. We don't even know what the commission is, whether it's like a normal trade margin, there's 10%, or there's a gallery 90%. Now I'm overreacting, of course, but there's no answer. And the third question, which is also related to this and it hasn't been answered all this time, in these many answers, there are a whole bunch of papers, magnetograms to which either the Minister himself or the General Staff has answered. This is a question of wheel configuration, call, contract, working documents and so on and so on. The only thing we know is that communication equipment is very important and so on, they just can't communicate with each other. The problem is that the Minister is obviously unable to communicate with the Defence Committee and the National Assembly. Let him buy this communication equipment, whether he gets it, or let him learn it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr. Pike has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. We've heard a lot about this explanation. I myself think that the establishment of this parliamentary commission of inquiry is unnecessary. Because in the National Assembly, in fact, in the Defence Committee, we have discussed this issue many times, and I have always received the answer that things are good, that things have been going transparent, that the Commission has decided on all the procedures that I do not intend to repeat. And that everything is in place. I do not object to the establishment of such a commission, because if you object, you would say, yes, something is wrong. It is right for some to think that such a commission should be set up. Well, let's make it show if there's anything on what they're reading. I would say myself that I have heard quite a lot of politicisation during today's debate, how many schools would be made, how much of it, how much of it. I must warn you that we are a member of NATO and that Slovenian voters have decided to join NATO. The NATO membership brought with it certain obligations. And these obligations must be fulfilled. Inside these obligations is also the purchase of armor 8x8. That's the way it is. And I don't think it's fair and politically hygienic, if you're going to buy something with this money. When someone tells me what this money could buy, I also wonder what could be bought with falcon, for the price of falcon, which would be intended for the transport of wounded and not for the transport of wounded, and for the Pilates and 6x6 armored men who then experienced 26 annexes to the basic contract, and the restoration of tanks, the purchase of hoodies, a lot of things to say. But I still think that these armors are good for the Slovenian soldier because they are modern and safe, especially this last one is the most important. Slovenian soldiers are quite often sent to international missions within the United Nations or otherwise. We should afford them the best equipment, because Slovenian soldiers need to afford the best equipment. Maybe I'll call back later when I hear some more details. Once again, I can point out that it would be better for the Commission to be set up and to review the many controversial irregularities that I have already listed. It's not just one. Okay, but if they're so determined that they're only going to investigate the purchase of 8x8 now, fine. I personally don't think that's necessary. Those who think so will have to prove where the irregularities are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich, do you want a word as a proponent? Will you be back later? Okay. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues and greetings to all who accompany this meeting. In fact, today's scheduled debate is quite unnecessary. Under the law, a parliamentary inquiry shall be ordered, if at least one third of the Members so require, and in two other cases, if so requested by the Council of State and so on, not to mention. However, it is not up to Members to decide whether or not a parliamentary inquiry is ordered, but only on the fact that a sufficient number of Members have requested it. This is where it happened. The legal condition for determining the parliamentary inquiry is met and we will have to appoint members of the investigative commission on this finding. That's why I'm not going to lose too much of my words at this point in the agenda. I regret, however, that the candidates for the parliamentary inquiry did not listen to other applicants who, for the same reason or who, for reasons of rationality, wanted to extend the scope of the parliamentary investigation to a previous period when the Ministry of Defence also purchased a number of different military equipment for the purposes of the Slovenian Army. It would be good to have full control of how military equipment was purchased within the Ministry of Defence in the longer term. It investigates only one business, as is now required, which cannot be thorough and comprehensive, but gives a picture of only one event. Surely it would be better if one investigation reviewed all such purchases of military equipment over a longer period of time and not just one single purchase, as I have already said before. The proposers did not want this point. I do not understand why, because it is certainly more rational for only one investigative commission to investigate the various acquisitions of military equipment than to set up two commissions, one of which will investigate only one particular business and the other in particular other in recent years. I'm sure a commission could easily do all this. This would be significantly simpler, more practical and not least much cheaper. It will therefore be necessary to set up two committees, because the fact is that there are two sufficiently large groups of Members requiring a parliamentary inquiry into the acquisition of military equipment, and the scope of the requested investigations is not the same. There is also a different time frame for both investigations required. However, I take into account the fact that the applicants for the parliamentary investigation order under consideration do not wish to extend the subject matter of the investigation and thus combine the two objects requested. This is your right and it cannot be challenged or opposed. I can only regret this fact, because now that the National Assembly will have to set up as many as two committees that will deal with the same, but with the same kinds of issues, there will be virtually a duplication of the professional, administrative and technical capacities of the National Assembly, which will result in unnecessary additional burdens on the National Assembly, and above all the costs of such irrational work will be significantly higher than they would be if they were brought together and dealt with only by one Commission of Inquiry. But what it is, it is. The legal provisions must, of course, be respected. So you have made a decision, so we must all, including those who would otherwise like the National Assembly to act more economically, more rationally and in particular cheaper, take this fact into account and take it into account. It is true, however, that you will have to take responsibility for unnecessary additional costs on your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u28	In this case, I must react as a proposalr, because Mr Kovacič has actually devoted most of his time to the controversy, whether two requests for an investigation could have been combined into one. I don't know if Mr. Tanko has told you whether you intend to deceive. However, it is clear that, despite the fact that another commission of inquiry, except that the wish of 30 signatories has been expressed, that they want to investigate something that has been done in the past, and without the fact that, previously, either the previous opposition or in the present tense, anyone has been troubled through procedures such as: a debate in the assembly, such as discussions on working bodies, such as other forms of parliamentary action, has come to a clear conclusion that it has been a matter of non-compliance with the law, that it has been a matter of non-transparent use of public money and so on. That wasn't there. Nevertheless, we were willing to cooperate in bringing them together. I have here texts that have traveled from one side to the other and we have coordinated it to the point, Mr Dimitrij and Mr Pajk and others, also Robbie Croat and similar, which here you are talking about how there was no will and so on. When it is said, yes, we are investigating everything, but because of the experience that has already occurred in this National Assembly, you have completely "committed" a proposal for a debate or for an investigative commission. I don't mind writing down the first business with the initial investigation, reporting to the National Assembly and continuing with the second. And since we want this to be clearly transparent, the matter that should be in everyone's interest is close to everyone. But certainly not any objection, I am this with Mr Tank, here, we can confirm - the interest on our part was so to put the matter to rest, but it was rejected with yours, Mr Dimitri. That's for sure. And probably the order is such that when a request is made, when it meets all the elements and someone else wants to extend this investigation, it has to justify it and also respect the order. This is the way it is done in cultural environments, so it is done in democratic parliaments, not now that you are talking about us rejecting it. No, no, no. Here are the papers prepared at the law enforcement office, where things are clear. Only one sentence was needed and you did not want it to be accepted: to be investigated in order. But, of course, I object now to some others. When Mr. Pike says, "We've got the best equipment." I am going to look at the intermediary's statement in this business, dated 14.2.2007, and a real intermediary, because the equipment chosen for these vehicles - even a mistake, lapsus - for these vehicles is not the most expensive and most quality, for example, the offer contained an AMU system of two-pronged mortars, which, I will say, is twice the cost of a contract now called NEMO, which is substantially lower than the offer. So we didn't get and we won't get the best equipment, that's what it says. There was no explanation. The intermediary stated 14.2. When you talk about Falcone, I can ask myself whether it made sense or not to get a Falcon. Now it turns out it made sense, but unfortunately we don't have it here. But it was clearly stated which item goes, how much will it cost, and when will we get it, and for what purposes. This was a question raised several times in this congregation and so on. Moreover, as part of the item on rescue and intervention in the transport of wounded persons and so on, we had another discussion on disputed intervention on the roads, on helicopter resolution, that this plane from this item wanted to solve the issue in a multifaceted manner. So, for the needs of the State, a plane will be purchased for the Government and for others who can use it for the rescue and transport of wounded persons and other such interventions in the field of protection and rescue. So, of course, it can't be comparable for you to say, on the one hand, the imprudentity of buying falcons, on the other hand, you say the transparency of purchasing 135 armors. Since it was clearly said here, I can quote to you, whatever you want, Mr Gutman, Chief of General Staff, who denied the Minister for the first time after the Minister said that 63 billion would be, and so on, 135 fully equipped armoured personnel would be declared by Mr Gutman: "The project fully covers the purchase of 135 vehicles, of which 110 are in the configuration of command vehicles and four types of infantry vehicles with superstructured weapons systems, i.e. anti-lock cannon..." and so on. "The remaining 25 vehicles are in the basic configuration and represent the basis for the upgrade..." and so on. When we ask, given that the country has adopted a resolution of the National Assembly, and then the Government has adopted a programme for equipping the Slovenian Armed Forces in the period 2005-2010 in 2005. On 31 November 2006, it adopted the 2007-2013 programme, where it identified the amounts. And now that we ask the question of how much these 25 will cost when they are equipped, there is no answer. We don't know what we're buying, we don't know what the equipment is going to be, even if we take into account the mediator's statement that we're not going to get the best equipment anyway, because somehow they had to get into the box of numbers, which in any case goes beyond what the minister said a few times, that if it turns out that it won't, he'll back out. Therefore, please, because this has not been answered at the assembly in all the proceedings, do not speak, because it is not true that only 30 signatures of those who have verified this inquiry committee are the ones to be carried out by the National Assembly. Everything has been done in advance, differences exist because Parliament - here too - would indeed be in your interest to ensure that Parliament, as a whole, not just the opposition, executes this investigative committee in a way that casts all doubts, and the suspicions that have been said here on several occasions, are not rejected in order to reject things in order to be clear, so that they are clear. I have no problem with pillatus or 6x6 or anything to participate in the next commission of inquiry, and even if you want, I will sign this request if it contains all the elements it must contain.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u29	Thank you. I would only ask that if the magnetograms are quoted, be careful that they are not from closed sessions, because in this case this meeting should also be closed to the public. Some of them called in the replica. Mr. Pike first.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. I've been challenged, and I have to take this. When I said 8x8 armors were modern, good, the best that was on the invitation, from those who volunteered for the invitation. Yeah, sure thing we're talking about that supply and this stuff, not the South African Republic, for example. So once again, I say that the Commission has found that these were the best armoured personnel who volunteered for the call. I personally spoke to the soldiers professionals who serve in the Slovenian Army, and they told me that armored men are really good and good for use. That's it. As far as equipment is concerned, the equipment on the armor is just extra equipment. When you buy a car, you can buy it with a lot of equipment or little equipment. And then it's very hard to say that that car you bought with less equipment is a bad car. The discussions on the committee are usually about anonymous letters and articles in newspapers, usually from Youth and so on. So I don't feel like this old man's role modeling, because there's usually no person behind anonymous letters. If they really had that purpose, they would have signed and said what they meant. But the thing about Falcone is, I wonder, God knows what kind of wounded he's carrying now, but he was bought for that money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u31	Mr Kovačič made his second call to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I think Mr. Anderlich's reaction was unnecessary. Nervousness is really unnecessary. No one is opposed to an investigation being established on the basis of your request. There is no need to convince why it is necessary to establish it, for we all accept it. The 30 Members' request is a condition for this to be done. I was just talking about having two demands here. It is the same kind of content and it would be more rational to combine it with a single committee. That's all I said. The condition for the establishment of a parliamentary inquiry is not whether this issue has already been discussed within the Committee and so on, but it is only a condition that at least 30 Members are required to establish an investigation into a question. We have two demands here. It would be more rational for this to be resolved in one, but if there is no such will, there is no problem. But why is it necessary to set up a commission and there is no controversy about that? That's what you're asking, and it's gonna be done. However, as for the reason why an issue is raised, Mr Anderlič is one of those who most often uses it in his discussions "we have found it in the media, we have read it in this newspaper" and so on. And even on this issue, which we are covering today with this request, most of the things have been excluded from the fact that something has been said in the media somewhere. And this was then the basis that this issue also began to be examined in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u33	The third person to ask for a replica is Mr Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. I think it is in my colleague Anderlič's arguments that two investigative committees or why we did not agree in such a way to investigate specific cases, that this is a rather one-sided and incorrect interpretation of events. At the time of the investigation commission's submission with those signatures, covering the period 1994 to 2007, we have also taken the initiative at the same time to join the two Commissions of Inquiry. Also for reasons of rationalisation of the uniformity of the conduct of the same approach to the cases under consideration. But I must say that the concept that you've been willing to agree to, we can't agree. If we set up a single commission of inquiry, then it is normal for these events from 8-8 and then forward or backward to be reviewed and a report is made. However, you have presented the concept that first 8-8 with a message, and this could last until November next year, which was the reality, and in this case the investigation of other recorded actions in this area would never have taken place. And the objective or blockade you put into this negotiation in this agreement is exactly what I have just said. Then withdraw investigation 8-8 for the entire period available until the end of the mandate. I think that if we are already talking about the cultural environment and the cultural political environment, then certainly this is not an approach when we take a project as you said, it is said that the coalition and the opposition would sit down and explore this area of military procurement, by the way, a very controversial past much more than now. However, you did not have these ambitions, although you have repeatedly said by the media and the media that you are very prepared to support this issue and so on. In short, with a concrete case, with a concrete approach, you have completely renounced and blocked it. I am sorry that the two investigative commissions will also be involved in two different concepts of work in the same field, in the area of defence, in the field of military procurement, and I think that you have done nothing to contribute significantly to a suitable and any environment. But the fact that they're probably more likely to represent themselves in 8x8 and into this equipment is that others will be more into pillatus, more in [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u35	Mr. Tanko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u36	and other matters as well. [[...]] Perhaps even more so because there were some great sacrifices in the back, just as needlessly as human sacrifices.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u37	Thank you. We continue the discussion of the applicants. Mr. Friend, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u38	Finally! Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that the Republic of Slovenia is one of the few countries within the European Union that likes to moralise and is fully aware of the fact that it does not really recognise moral standards. With us, it can be stolen on a white day, it can lie under oath, and even to the detriment of the people it can work. This has been proved by previous governments, the present and probably tomorrow will be the day after tomorrow. This is very bad if we take the examples of this very department, which has the largest budget resources, and in this area they have been happening in the past, and even today, as we see, quite large, and I will just say, "pigs". Nobody's responsible for that. I don't believe this minister will keep his word, even if we prove it a hundred times, he won't back down. And tell me, dear colleagues and colleagues, which investigative committee has proven anything? You set up a commission and you're going to blur out all the facts. If we just look at the weapons affair. We could have listened to Mr. Mojet before. He knows he's one of the few who knows who's responsible for what. And believe me, one and the other are responsible on the one hand and on the other, so the matter is kept silent. And you'll never know who got rich and where the money is. Never because it's such an interest. But if we're talking about the latest purchase, which is kind of funny, because we have, someone said before, we need to have a modern army equipped. Why, for intervention abroad? We have an excellent task force to intervene and protect outstanding border issues, but we're sending this unit out. At home, however, we have our own unresolved border issues. Would it not be more prudent to spend at home this special military unit, which is now well equipped abroad? We have sent even the largest military unit, the largest formation is now in Kosovo. And look when we're talking about having nothing to do with the world. I'd like to do some comparative analysis. Four oncology institutes could do with this money when we get it today, maybe tomorrow, tomorrow morning's armored without wheels or no steering wheel. That's what we signed. 45,000 poor people in Slovenia could be removed from the Karitas for bread, so many registered. Or 89,000 unemployed. That's what we could do with that money. We could pay by 2090, we calculated, kindergarten. Interesting. We could have free kindergartens by this year. And these young people watching us today could have solved social problems and a lot of jobs, but we have to invest in the military because we're a big country, 2 million, and we need an army. I'd just say something, the commission will work, I believe, very diligently and well, but with certainty it won't figure anything out. We, if we can give our opinion, can here, published on television anyway, because you also banned this, and the Slovenian National Party hardly has publications. That is why I take this opportunity to tell the general Slovenian public that we are one of the few countries that the European community takes very seriously and participates in this country all that is available in excess of GDP, even if its own nation has nothing. You know, every four years there's an election. And since the crowd of dissatisfied people are growing, I believe that you will be together with previous officials and current people's accounts in this new country - if not earlier, in 2008. And God forbid that discontent rises just as we are chairing the European Union and there will be a bunch of hungry people here already and every day more, and we will have a picture that can be born in England when Bush comes, or in America in front of the White House. This will be here, in front of Parliament. We're not used to it, so we'll probably find that we need a little more cops and maybe some more armor for a cop. And count on this cost, gentlemen of honor!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr Juri spoke as the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u40	Thank you. Let's get back to the point. As a proposaler, I would like to make a few more points, or to respond to the concerns of the applicants of the other investigative commission or other internal investigations, if agreed, of the same commission. First of all, they doubt that this Commission would have a better hand than all predecessors do, as has already been said, that investigations do not go to the end and call into question the efficiency of a commission that would investigate business 8x8, but at the same time impose and impose on this Commission a series of other investigations, a type of other burden, of course, which would only make it difficult or slow down the work of this commission. So, here's this scheming maneuver, buddy Tanko, clear. At the same time, I wonder why you did not propose to investigate the transactions that you would like to examine today, when they were current, when they were available, when actors were still in office, even in public functions, and when the time was right. Not just after many years, and that's just because we're looking into the armored business. And to those, including my colleague Pajko, who repeat the same story that we have chosen NATO and from this title also the kind of obligations that follow, we no longer have this problem. What I personally think about it is another story and it's not relevant. We challenge those hidden and yet unclear and dubious salaries of this business, the exceedance of the mandate, negotiators and ministers, the overstatement of funds, the unknown sum that awaits us when we have to close the business, intermediaries or intermediaries, the responsibility of the holders of public functions for the possibility of private benefits. That's what we want to explore. And that your effort is to make this investigation difficult, clearly, I think everyone can see. We negotiated, my friend Tanko knows, we suggested that it be accurately recorded that the commission should first search business 8 x 8 and then everyone else. You have not agreed to this, you have proposed that the Commission should have all the powers to determine the order of this investigation and all investigations. In this way, of course, we would allow this commission to be in the middle of a big deal, thus making it procedurally impossible for further work. I hope that the public also understands this and that we will order this investigation as soon as possible, start work and also set up a commission at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Germich. A replica? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u42	Thank you. Well, here I would respond to only one part, namely the part concerning the integration of the 1991-1993 period into the Commission of Inquiry. I would like to point out that there have already been two investigative committees on this subject. Last time he led colleague Moge, very effective, in short, did not end with any conclusion. And now this period and this area is opened for the third time by an investigative commission. Both previous investigative committees were, when you had a majority, even a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly, and you failed to find out without closing the process. In short, the observation of what the coalition wants in this case is entirely unfounded. In short, you open things that have already been completed twice in the proceedings. Perhaps you too would have a little synchronization, for earlier he told his colleague Moje about how he imagined the work of the investigative commissions, on behalf of the parliamentary group, and perhaps it would be right if you were listening to yourself sometimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u43	Thank you. There are no replicas on the replica, Mr. Moge. But it'll be your turn soon. Mr. Germich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday it was interesting when we discussed the law on public servants and when we presented the arguments, whether we did not implement those who were absent from work because of the disease, to supervise with the detectives; of course, today we are setting up parallels when we are talking about how to establish transparency or the conditions for transparent public presentation of the transactions carried out by the Government in billions of values, namely, the State of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, we have so much to say as a difficult situation for the public to come up with these transparent answers. Of course, then I wonder why Parliament is so low on reputation in surveys. Now, the thing that we could do ourselves and talk about our work is that, of course, there is no confidence that we will ever come to relevant data and to the public in a transparent way, whether the Minister of Defence, with a statement of 63 billion, 135 armoured vehicles with full equipment, is actually this or everything else - given that there is so much information in the public without clear answers, why 25 armoured men suddenly became different and that the difference between 63 billion and 61.9 billion is the one, with which we will then make the upgrade of these 25 unequipped armors. This alone requires clear answers, clear answers to this question. For we did not, of course, get these answers through the debates on the committee or through the discussions at the extraordinary meeting. I, therefore, am concerned that, in the previous term, I have been monitoring the then opposition, which, in the last period before the elections, has taken note of everything that has been going on in the previous government, and that today, in fact, on the issue that is currently under way, you are questioning everything that you can then go through, I would say, the whole review of the work of the previous government has also been done. How to understand when, in the previous term, it was so vehemently postponed that the whole LDS story is connected to three K's, corruption, clientism, theft. Tell me today, because I am also interested in when you have all the levers in your hands, all the levers of control, control, access to documents, why today you do not show for those transactions that were carried out, the theft that were linked to corruption and where customerism was. I'd be interested in that, too. And it would certainly be of interest to the people to whom you promised at that time that we would do this for a great deal. You're proposing an investigator, but you're even more insecure by having all the levers you have. Look at all the documents, I don't think the Ministry took them home before the handover was made. You signed the surrenders. The pre-receivable records are adopted and in this way you have also assumed responsibility for what was taken over. I'm trying to think and completely in simple form. I can understand that you find these answers funny right now, but give these answers to the Slovenian public, or the three K's were at the time, or it was a game through which you based something you can't show today. And if you cannot show this today how we can then understand the manoeuvre, that you are also promising today how this business will have a major impact on the Slovenian economy. Except for words, I have no concrete evidence of where these effects are. Tell me where the 50 companies that are already completely involved in this business are. Where's the anti-trafficking? Where are the jobs you're talking about? And you're talking about numbers that Patria will provide, Rotis promised 320 jobs, while System Engineering 180. As regards the employer, Rotis provided 1920 jobs. You follow the statements made by the representatives of Rotis, the representatives of the company already in Gorenje, what will actually result from this. The numbers are already significantly lower. And the argument is that the difference between the tender and the signed contract also led to a difference in the number of jobs. But today, I think we should also answer these questions clearly. Because I can't imagine any different when you say that the political pressure of the opposition is connected to just defending one company that didn't get the job, and we're defending everything that's not responsible for the business that was concluded with Patrio and the last company, Rotis. This is very important for us in Parliament to establish all the supervisory functions in order to use public funds in full transparency. Today, it has already been said how many complications we had only in the supply of medical equipment. How many complications! Here, we must trust with our left hand everything that this government is doing in a corrective way, with so many ambiguities, so many incorrect answers to the questions that we are asking as opposition Members. And there are no unique answers. I have already set up a dilemma and parallel at the meeting of the National Assembly, a document created by the General Staff, which we first deny, then miraculously disappears. A parallel with a burdensome similar document of Banka Slovenije analysis, which you use as a key material for the fact that the former Governor of Banka Slovenije is no longer suitable. How can we weigh so many different content? Here the principle and content of this House's work are placed under credibility, whether we have different vats to similar cases. However, for me, such cases of documents in the Slovenian Armed Forces General Staff, which speak of completely different numbers of the final value of the purchase of this equipment, are even more worrying. But here we do not want to go to the bottom and we want to present to the public today a position that the opposition, because it does not want to accept any additional burdens on this committee, is hampering the clearance of certain procedures. That's not true. We want to clear up everything that is related to this business and do this work in this mandate as well. The Coalition has every opportunity to open up all those topics if it has to open them with an investigative committee in Parliament or with all the levers it has, so that as the Government will review everything that the Coalition considers necessary. And let's pour some pure wine to the Slovenian public. [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr Sok, I agree with this, and I also speak in this direction, and you have led the second largest group of Members in this coalition and it would be correct, given that you were also a Member in the previous term, that the first steps in this mandate should be to clear up what was to be clarified, which was so critical in our species in the previous mandate, and that we should not go into new business without burdening ourselves, but not to tie all history to all these decisions, but that we do not clear what we would like to clear up. Therefore, I think it is very important for the Slovenian public to respond to the fact that it is not the opposition's interest to block any additional investigation. It makes sense, therefore, to the extent that, if you support it - of course, I am talking about this because all of your types have conditioned support for these with burdens that are still attached to other content. I therefore conclude that I hope that the Commission of Inquiry will be able to confirm what you are saying is correct in this business. Given that doubts exist, and given that we heard from your mouth yesterday that control of the issue is, for example, not properly reported travel costs for work, very important for this country, so it seems to me that billions of businesses going for defence purposes are still important and require control. Of course, I wish, and I hope, that there will be such evidence in the investigation that it will not burden the measures for which there is actually doubt today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u46	Thank you, President. So when you listen to this debate, at least a few conclusions are just different than they were a few days ago. You're listening to the already condescending tons of coalitions that no longer challenge this investigative commission and no longer link another investigative commission to this investigative commission. However, the fact is that it was different in this space for a while, of course, that the coalition was doing everything to actually prevent the composition or work of this commission of inquiry, in all ways defending some of its leaders, who are now exposed both to the eyes of the opposition and to the public; therefore, during that transitional period, it was only trying to protect Minister Erjavac, but we know that the president of one of the parties was also. That she wanted to protect the Prime Minister of the Government, whom we all know is the president of the coalition party. Therefore, this time has only endured this change that the coalition has also realized that it cannot challenge the Commission of Inquiry that our Rules of Procedure and Procedures do not prevent this. And this last attempt, when it wanted to expand the scope of the investigation with others, and for the period 1994 to 2007, the work done in this area will be carried out in its committee. I'm sure it was an attempt at maneuvers that thank God failed. Although some debates today still show this attempt to keep this line going. In doing so, I would like to mention Mr Rezman, who, in one of the cases of past rejection or in this case, has found out how some of the institutions or bodies have already reviewed this situation and that none of them have had any comments, and he has quoted how Parliament has done so, how the committees in Parliament have done so, how the Court of Auditors has already examined this situation, in fact. So he wanted to say, in fact, that there is no reason for this investigative commission to actually be formed. A similar case came to my mind, or the case of one of the investigative commissions, when a large number of authorities, the institutions found that there was no reason for doubting certain decisions, but the police said so, and the court said so, and the prosecution said so. So, everyone has done their job - I'm specifically talking about the case, let's remember our colleague and once a journalist, Mr Petk - and yet Parliament has introduced an investigative committee, which, of course, has played its positive role. Therefore, I also believe that there are no reservations in this case and there should be no reservations that the situation in this case, when it comes to relatively large purchases, is in fact the largest purchases in the history of the Slovenian State, are also examined from all angles of view and that all doubts about this are dissuaded. Why not also leave the right to the media, and this is what Mr Kovacic has previously seen as some way of working; so that the opposition is using the media to quote some mistakes - because this is what the current coalition, the previous opposition, has done just as. The media, those who remain independent, of course, are also the source of identification or data retrieval, after all, we do not have some of our detectives, some of our institutions, some of our authorities, some of their authorities, searching through the papers, searching the authorities just to bind the coalition, but the media are also one of the resources we use to say or say our own. In the presentation of the SDS position, at least I think it was an attempt to point this story towards another area, to focus on how we with these acquisitions increased the fighting ability of the Slovenian Army, how we improved the quality and the ability of quality action, how the equipment is perfect and "oh and ah", how we will actually ensure that our army is more protected on its missions, more secure. So it seemed to me that he was trying to blur out what we wanted to do with the commission of inquiry: if all of this was true, whether everything was done, whether it was done at the maximum, or whether this equipment was really such that it would give a reliable answer: "It is the best," and some of the doubts Mr. Anderlich has already given you in his reaction or in his replica. Of course, I don't want to say funny or, however, in some way, a strange explanation that this business will leave €46 million of VAT in Slovenia. In any case, gentlemen, this VAT remains here; whether you drive the business through the intermediary, or you drive it directly through the contractor, or it is done by a domestic company - VAT is here, VAT is an integral part of our legislation. This is not to be avoided, nor is it to be drawn as an extenuating circumstance that would soften the impression that some things were not done properly. When I compare this coalition's request or assess the coalition's request to extend it to some acquisitions in 1994-2007 from the same area, it comes to my mind, as some have already said, why this was not done already when either the opposition or even now that they have taken the lead, and it comes to my mind this similar situation or the situation that has taken place within the prosecutor's office - now Mrs Brezigar has been leading the prosecution for more than two years - a case where one of the prosecutors has not responded to the obvious situation that has arisen within the prosecution's office, that he has not responded to the complaint or to the application for a decision concerning BTC. That's what I'm talking about. In this case, I think that it is the overall clear responsibility of the state prosecutor, who would also have to identify her responsibility in this case in a way that she did not ensure proper conduct in this case, because an operation should be carried out on the computer which would indicate that a complaint must be made within a certain period of time. She should put in place such a system that would allow this, because she is not, she is objectively responsible. Now some want to cut into an objective responsibility for years ago, when some people, or those who are not even more politicians, and that seems to me to be a lie. Find the weeds in your ranks first, think and see who is wrong among you, and then be critical of those who, according to your judgment, have made mistakes. One of the fundamental issues raised by this commission of inquiry is why we actually have an intermediary who had to take on the role of supplier. I understand that perhaps these intermediaries played their part before Slovenia joined the EU. There have been many cases where these intermediaries have brought suppliers who are simply brave enough to enter this economic environment or to those calls. And then the intermediaries were the ones who brought these suppliers from abroad to Slovenia. I remember how this was actually the most obvious in the field of medicine. I've been working alone in this area for a while. I still understand that. Why, now, we need to be intermediaries, when we are actually an equal member of this economic, European economic market, when suppliers of all Europe, even more broadly, can enter without any restriction into the Slovenian economic order - so there must be some intermediaries who, I am sure, are chosen for this because they can ensure or blur out that part of the purchase, which is also of great value. Especially if they are people who get to know each other, especially if they are people who have worked in this area for a long time, especially if they are people who still carry with them a part of the stain for some behavior in the past period. And I think it is right for this commission of inquiry to identify this role of an intermediary, to be objective; that is, to confirm this suspicion or to reject it. In fact, the commission of inquiry will achieve its purpose. In doing so, I cannot forget that part of these decisions or this contract, which shows that almost 20% of the armoured personnel or supplies are not as they should be with the contract that the supply is not complete. And here one wonders whether we will be able to further achieve this value within the framework of the contractual value, whether the completion of these 25 armoured personnel will reach a level beyond 66 billion. But because I believe that the Minister and his experts have no particular desire and will to do so quickly, they are probably speculating that this mandate is going to pass, that the period of this Parliament is going to pass, and therefore this fog has remained in the air, which is why I think this is also the argument that this commission of inquiry is dealing with these issues. So, since the procedure does not allow us to vote and not vote on this subject, I think that you Members will realise that it is also pointless to speak and challenge the reasons for forming this commission of inquiry. However, I am joining those who say, form or we will also form another investigative committee for the area you want to explore, if you have missed this train and if you have been too careful about this area of investigation in the past period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Members and Members of Parliament. I myself will focus in my debate on what I think needs to be said today, why we have come to this last step in the possibility of exercising parliamentary control over this business. I think it is known that the exercise of the supervision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia over the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been difficult in this business, at least if not knowingly delayed. It was said by a number of representatives of the Ministry of Defence, even when we had a special meeting of the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances, that they were simply doing business here in accordance with the procurement procedures, that they were imitating public procurement and that because they were doing so it was clear that in two offers where one offer was made by the intermediary and the other by the Slovenian producer, the law, the one given by the intermediary. However, when we deepened or wanted to get deeper into these questions, we found that it was far from that. If any contracting entity, in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, had found that there had been a change in the objectives during the proceedings and that, of course, something that had been made available in the tendering procedure could not be accepted or not accepted, such a public contract for toilet paper in any public sector institution would have been suspended. Here we are purchasing or the government is purchasing almost EUR 300 million of armoured personnel. And even when it was found in the process that there had been a change of objectives, business continued. It is not possible to determine from the documentation available to the National Assembly so far whether all that was provided in the offer was also the basis for the selection of the intermediary and not the Slovenian company, whether it was also included in the contract. Let me just give you one case. The offer by the provider of the System Technology correctly provides for the provision of 180 direct employment and, indirectly, 92 workers as a result of this additional business. The Rotis offer, however, provides for direct employment of 320 workers and indirectly 1,920 workers - 2,200 new jobs because this business is given to the tenderer. And logically, such a process of transparency and public procurement is that, as a result, it has been assessed that the benefit for the Slovenian economy is much greater if the Ministry of Defence signs a contract with Rotis. Of all the documents now available in the National Assembly, and in particular from what has been said publicly, but also from closed meetings, this confirmation that Rotis will provide 2,200 jobs is no longer available. If, in the event of purchase of any other public contract, an offer involving 2,200 jobs had finally been realised in a contract which no longer provided for it, the supervisory authorities would have cancelled such a public contract. And it is logical that the Systemic Technology has therefore sought appropriate legal protection, first on the State Audit Commission, then on the Court of Justice. And from the documents, there were more than enough reasons for the opposition to try to determine whether public procurement was properly issued. That is why we have tried to obtain this at the Commission for the supervision of the budget and other public finances and at the Defence Committee. It was found that the mediator did not provide what was the basis for the Ministry of Defence choosing it, i.e. more business for Slovenia or more jobs in Slovenia. We can also read in the media that those who are now the main contractor, Gorenje d.d., will not provide new jobs, but will more or less lead to the fact that several workers who make up 100,000 stoves, refrigerators, etc. will also carry out work in Gorenje for several weeks. So there are no benefits for the Slovenian economy. It will therefore be necessary to establish in the work of the Commission of Inquiry that the call for negotiations, and in particular the signing of the contract, was inconsistent with the rules, the guidelines adopted by either the National Assembly or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and were the basis for what Rotis was chosen. Rotis made false promises, but these promises were no longer confirmed in the contract. It will be necessary to determine why and how the purchase was made through an intermediary. Why do we suddenly have a purchasing job to buy armor in Rotis d.o.o. and not at the Ministry of Defence. Is this really just because some people from the purchasing services have moved to the d.o.o.-? Therefore, it will be necessary to establish direct and direct links between natural and legal persons and, if necessary, also public function holders involved in the sale and production of medium-sized wheeled vehicles 8x8. It will be very interesting to learn how to suddenly be through the President of the Gorenje d.d. Supervisory Council. without the decision of the shareholders, it decides to re-produce a line in the territory, which, by some municipal and spatial acts, is intended for anything other than so-called military production. All these are the reasons why this will have to be done in a parliamentary investigation. I regret, however, that we have failed in the relevant supervisory institutions either by legal protection in the State Audit Commission or by appropriate decision-making in parliamentary working bodies - and this appropriate decision in parliamentary working bodies has been prevented by the ruling coalition, given the power ratios in Parliament's supervisory bodies. I regret that we have not already identified in the National Assembly the clear inefficiencies, intransparency and, of course, inefficiencies of this business in order and work so far. That is why, given the constitutional possibilities, this will now have to be determined by a parliamentary investigation. And I think that in the end, the parliamentary investigation will also lead to the determination of the level of political responsibility of individual public function holders. It's been a real deal for decades. I'd rather call it a job. If the Court of Auditors has already found him weak, negative for Mercator's business, I believe that, of course, we will find something similar in this business. The parliamentary investigation must therefore also focus on the future of how to upgrade arms control in Slovenia. We cannot simply say the fourth paragraph I do not know which article of the Public Procurement Act, this business is not subject to and cannot be provided with legal certainty for this business. Parliamentary practice in democracy says that such cases must, of course, be ensured if not through control through the State Audit Commission, but at least by specific working bodies in Parliament that ultimately confirm whether there is potential corruption or whether there is potential political clienteleism. That's good practice. In October 2006, in the Chamber of the State Council, we even had a consultation on this and these documents, together with the documents submitted by the proponents, by those responsible, should be the basis for the Commission's work of parliamentary inquiry to teach us, of course, how better to exercise parliamentary control before the start of the business, so that those who are being investigated do not think that they can do what they want in Slovenia. I will work alone in this context to support this parliamentary investigation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is interesting to listen to all this debate and to monitor how much deception and deception we receive here. To report to the coalition Members that we are opposed to this commission of inquiry is very, very rude - kindly said, because it is virtually none of them can oppose the Commission. After the signing of the 30 Members, the Commission must be set up and there is no dilemma here. I, too, support any commission of inquiry that will in any way clarify or investigate an phenomenon or some irregularity that would make sense for such a commission to be established. However, the purpose of this Commission is certainly not in this respect, because we have already discussed this subject so much, there was so much possibility that, both at the Ministry and in many debates, they could get answers to all the open questions. So that there are certainly no great dilemmas here, and also the reason this commission of inquiry is not in this, in the sense of setting up. The key purpose, I stress, is primarily to try a year or a year and a half to put into the public a number of dilemmas related to such purchases. This is an excellent opportunity for the president of this commission of inquiry to refer to the press conferences every week and to indicate what this commission will investigate and to receive the material from the articles, from the Youth or from some media or even from themselves. That's the key reason the commission's intention is here. However, if all the content that is certainly needed for more detailed investigations were actually added to this committee, the weight of this investigative commission would be quite different. But given that this tailor or citing committee is not ready, we will call another one. Now only a word or two on Mr Squeak's dilemma, but also one of the predecessors, why he should have been an intermediary in this business. Yeah, it's a perfectly simple answer. Patria apparently authorized and also gave written notice that he was represented by Rotis in this business. How can we tell a producer that he has to do market activity himself? I'll give you an example from Slovenia. Renovation, a very large car manufacturer, perhaps many of you do not know that he does not sell these cars, you can not buy a car in Revoz, for this he has authorised sellers in Slovenia. And now you'll be asking why Revos has intermediaries. Because he is not engaged in retail in Slovenia. So the dilemma about the intermediary, why it is and why it isn't, I think it's completely superfluous, it's Patria's business decision. That I will not be here for too long, all the debate, we know that today is spinning in the same circle, wants to put in public again some untruths, some hints that are far from enduring. All the answers or questions that have already been asked in the past may have been answered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Honorable present in the hall, colleagues, colleagues! We are once again before the establishment of an investigative commission and because it is a classical institution of parliamentary democracy, I have never, and I will never oppose the establishment of any investigative commission, even though perhaps those who have been established in recent times do not need to. Of course, I will never agree that the Commission of Inquiry in the past has not produced positive effects. Of course, I will never agree that the Commission of Inquiry in the past has not produced positive effects. Of course, the political purpose of the current Commission of Inquiry is carefully chosen. He is carefully chosen for the current one and is clear about the political intentions of this commission of inquiry. I am sure that the applicants are not concerned about the state, about the transparency of purchases. That's different. In the face of opposition problems, a political instrument was sought in a chilling way, allowing every week to stir up the public, insinuation, political manoeuvres, political instigation. This Commission of Inquiry is designed to ensure a constant dose of political manure that will be poured into the institutions of power during the current term of office on a weekly basis. Nevertheless, I think that some of the positive effects of each commission of inquiry are always there. However, I can agree that in such a wide-ranging business as the acquisition of weapons, various interests that are difficult to manage have emerged during the course of the business process, and that this will also make it possible for the State to have greater political and actual control over the realisation of these transactions, which, in the current phase, cannot be called into question for transparency and purpose and the interest of the State to obtain in its military such weapons, which will be of universal benefit to the Slovenian Army. However, I must respond to the statements that so far the investigative commission has not reached any conclusions, of course the past, from the mouth of those who are now posting an investigative commission and "disputing" the achievements of previous investigative commissions. The truth is that the only investigative commission on arms buyouts did not reach the final report because that was not the intention. Others produced all final reports, but the Parliament, under the leadership of the Liberal Democracy, stalled in all possible ways, the metal from the meetings and the reports were not dealt with, except for one. Here political complacency showed how fear of the investigative commissions and their conclusions was. However, although the final reports were prepared in due time, I was the President of one, and six months before the end of the mandate, we prepared a final report, but the Liberal Democracy, together with the then United List, manipulated, skillfully processed matters, proposed each meeting for the next session and was never considered. And here today to share the obvious that the commissions have not come to conclusions and that they have not finished their work is unhygienic, incorrect. It is true, however, that the previous investigative commission on weapons, which has been extensively discussed, was set up in the middle of the mandate, in order not to come to the final report, because it was known that and now to say that the conclusions on weapons were not realized! [[...]] Yes, twelve years, twelve years of government and government conclusions have not been realized! Yeah, who's the eye on this? It's placed here today as if it's at the expense of the current authority. It is clear that there was no political will because there were a number of names in those weapons that were in power at the time of the LDS. So let's be clear about what this is all about. And, of course, when today this same opposition sitting here on both sides is talking about the lack of transparency, the lack of clarity of purchase, the current contracts and so on, it is clear, of course, that they have vast knowledge of how weapons were procured at the time of their governments. However, it also leads me to believe that if they doubt here that in the past there has been a lot of trouble, that there has been a lot of corruption, that left, right, and many who have put them in some position have benefited from this. Look, we all know that the hoodies under former Minister Kacin, now the party's president has been falling apart, procured in strange ways, and that the improper goods have literally been procured, which has also caused the death victim or a number of things. I will give an example of what, for example, the broader political consequences of such purchases at the time. At that time, the ambassador in Israel was a lady who was later in Sweden, Ambassador Bavdacheva, and apparently did not match Mr Kacin sufficiently successfully or she did not want to participate in those matters in the way he wanted. And she resented him so much that after she ran for ambassador in Japan, he, as president of the Committee on Foreign Policy, did everything he could to reject her. He was the only one who voted against the election, the opposition abstained, others also abstained, and there he "poured" it in every way possible, only because it was not enough, in my opinion, to pair it up in military affairs in Israel. This is the political situation. We are now listening to the eyewitnesses from that part of the then LDS that moved into Social Democracy. Mr Cvikl said last night that there was a negative selection in the National Assembly as well, and I hope that he was self-critical and that he thought of himself and his colleague that this was a negative selection, a negative transition within. I agree with that if he meant his own misdemeanor, that there's a negative selection going on there. But in this way, in some way, I would say to mutilate the country even when there are some realizations of conclusions that have been prepared and implemented in the Ministry of Defence for a long time. If we keep looking. It is quite clear at this point that this investigative commission will not come to the final report either, that this is not their purpose and that it is not the intention of the applicants, and of course we have so much practice from the investigative commissions. As a result, those who, at this point in time, place the Commission of Inquiry in this manner have only relatively manipulative political objectives. In the past, however, the Commission of Inquiry, I stress once again, - many positive effects. Minister Bandelj was successfully intertwined on the basis of what was clarified in the investigative committee. Elan would no longer be in Slovenian hands because everything was ready to go down in a corrupt way. Then things got done in a different way. Pukšič's investigative commission - Pukšič achieved with his commitment that the then authorities had slightly rejected those plans, that Elan had launched again and that Elan had been successful at least after production during that period. Where the money went, that's another story, because it was done domestically. The Commission of Mr Zampernik has already been mentioned. It has done much more than the police and the judiciary have been able to do in the past mandate in the case of Mr Petk, at least some things have begun to be clarified and clarified. I will continue to be in favour of the investigative committee, because I respect because I am a sworn constituency of democracy, which must be played here, and we will if the investigative commission works to pursue positive goals, even in that part of support. However, I firmly believe that it is intended not to reach any conclusions, to do nothing, but to manipulate itself only in public and that it is simply a political manoeuvre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u54	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues. There was a lot of insinuation in the speeches that the Liberal Democracy was the one who didn't want to come to the bottom of the arms affair, and I led the committee myself, and because in this national assembly, a bunch of untruths were said that burdened all the members of the commission and me personally, I was obliged to explain the following. First: colleague Jagodnik has already asked 27 questions before. It is known who should have answered them, who was most responsible at the time and, instead of answering 27 questions, the entire State Committee dealt with arms trafficking openly at the Maribor airport. That's how this whole thing started. After the establishment of the Madonna Commission, it did not come to an end, because the last period of Madonna, I do not know for what reasons the Commission did not call, was then a member of the Slovenian People's Party. Comrade Tanko and another colleague from Slovenia Bistrica were here "Urbi et Orbi" doing wrong to members of Democracy and said that Liberal - at least a colleague of Tanko - had two-thirds in the National Assembly did not want to accept the report of the investigative commissions. See, the truth is this: a commission investigating the involvement and responsibility of public officials in the search for weapons at the Maribor airport and with equipment and weapons in the Ložnica warehouse - yes? - reported to the National Assembly at its 51st extraordinary meeting on 29.06.2000 - this document can be obtained - and gave its interim message where the National Assembly adopted two decisions. The first is: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia took note of the interim report on the involvement and responsibilities of public officials in the search for arms at the Maribor airport and the equipment and weapons in the Ložnica warehouse." Therefore, this was found, but since the Commission found that there were other irregularities, it proposed to the National Assembly an additional decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted an act extending the parliamentary investigation to all illegal arms trade 1991-1993" and "through the territory of the Republic of Slovenia"; therefore, this was adopted. During this period the Government of Liberal Democracy has fallen, Mr Bayuk has come to the government, the President of the National Assembly has remained here Mr. Podobnik, who has gone to the new coalition. And then, you know, when the reports should also be adopted, I am telling you about the 58th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, beginning on 13 December 2000, with a clear agenda, there are three things that are important inside. One is a report on the parliamentary investigation into the involvement of public officials, an attempt to discredit Slovenian police officers and soldiers who participated in the 1991 self-serving war in Koroška. One member from Slovenia Bistrica spoke about this today. That was on the agenda. The second was a report by the Commission of Inquiry on the involvement and responsibilities of the holders of public functions with regard to the finding of weapons at the Maribor airport and the third was a report on the course and findings of the investigation and the reasons why the parliamentary investigation into the suspicion of abuse of public powers, etc. So this was included, then, the Liberal Democracy, respected colleagues and colleagues, did not have a government. Another option at the time had a government and also had a president of the National Assembly. We then placed these things on the agenda of the National Assembly, but it was not our pleasure that all these reports, of the two colleagues who are now SDS, would not have accepted the key reports of the President where I was. And please don't talk about it being the Liberal Democracy. Someone else was responsible for not accepting these reports, and in national terms it is extremely bad that, when the option now in power, all the levers in hand, it was not the report that was adopted, all three of the messages, with all the consequences and the case was closed. So much for that. The second thing I mean to say is that some people have told me when I spoke on behalf of the Group of Members, although it is not disputed that it is not worthy to say what this money is meant to do. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I know that security in Slovenia is necessary. I know that in the world we live in, in which people are so afraid of each other, that the main work we do is to buy weapons and maintain a healthy army, that while man is most afraid of his fellow man - and in this system we are forced to buy weapons and I am for it and I have not objected to this toll for defence purposes. I mean, respected colleagues and colleagues, since the appearance of the defense tolar, have always walked hand in hand with the other tolars, i.e. the school tolar. Also a tolar in your knowledge, if you like. They went hand in hand, you can trust me. Until this time. Tolar - basic development programmes in the field of education, etc. - will expire next year. We will be adopting the budget for the next two years in autumn and we have no more tolars for 2009. The government will share those things through programs that it will think are good, and will use different vats to share money. I think it is necessary to make it clear to the whole world of this city in Slovenia that so far, in addition to the fundamental development programmes in the field of defence, they have always been accompanied by basic development programmes in the field of education; if you want to, we say domestically. This time, however, it will be the first government that has not done so and is the whole segment of education, the whole segment, the whole segment of science and so on, and in fact, the resolutions always say that this is our "first hammer", with which we will establish ourselves in the European Union. And the third thing I was going to mention here is this. Some said: newspaper articles and the media. I think that, as in this period now, under this government, the National Assembly has never functioned more than it is that it lives mainly on what gets information from the media. If we just look at the establishment of a control or a working group for the Soviet Union. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we, the Commissioners in the National Assembly, covering the supervision of these intelligence services, were not aware of this. And it seems to me that without one consensus to go, it's breaking an elephant after intelligence at the porcelain store. Think of it when you put here that there were irregularities in Banka Slovenije. Will the government then give five ministers and 17 other ministers to investigate things in the Bank of Slovenia? Are we smart or what's wrong with us? However, we are in the European Union and part of the legislation and also part of the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia depends on the European Union's view. Part of the supervision and part of the quality of the Slovenian Security Intelligence Service's business is also dependent on its reputation; what now comes to the public from the government side of some ministers is no wonder that an inspection from NATO to Slovenia is coming, that these things will be done little and that we will have an intelligence service based on such a basis that it can be proud of us, but not that one year or less, a few months before the Presidency of the European Union, a respected colleague and colleagues, we have investigators here, we have some groups with the Government to do these things. I think these things point to the obsessive situation in Slovenia. We in the opposition weren't the ones who said we'd start investigating commissions. Who was the one who set up the two investigative committees? Was it the opposition or was it a position? And this is the wrong world, ladies and gentlemen! And if you have - sorry fellow Members, I appreciate you, from your position - in the hands of the whole judiciary, the whole police apparatus, the jobs [[...]] [[A laugh from the bench.]] [[...]] [[Yes, these are your employees, these are government employees - I won't talk about it... then... Mr Jerovšek, I don't know if you're allergic to me or anything else, but never let me make it clear that you can Aritique your opinion. Have you calmed down?]] [[...]] That is why I say, if you have all this to do - forgive my expression, but what is going on, just look at the media; in all the different areas of the affair, the affair for the affair, instead of being proud that we have our own country, to try really democratic ways. In order to come to the truth, however, we Members are always entangled in "some sinful goats", which, on the basis of various articles, various information, and other than that, we are investigating and doing what should be done by elected and legal state authorities. I kind of took a breath after the 2004 elections, and I thought, for once, this power will bring democracy, that we will have, as promised, a freed Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, what's going on now, I may be measuring these developments in the country with older vats, but I'm sorry, it really doesn't seem like a relaxed Slovenia. It is already between relations between the position and the opposition in here that I am not even talking about the relationship of some ministers or some of the senior public officials to the interested or other public. I think it would be good, instead of inspiring each other's untruths - I am now talking about one - it would be good to join forces and to try, as much as it is in our power, without overly politicizing to bring these things to an end; where they belong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Školč has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Yeah, sorry, I saw that. Mr. Jerovšek, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I will start with this first, I have my last name, and I am not only a colleague from Slovenia Bistrica, but nothing bothers me if I am, but Mr Moze mentioned me earlier in the group of Members and studied me when I responded with a call to the truth which was mentioned. And this is also a classical institute in all European parliaments. And as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, I know that there are a lot of interlocutors in all parliaments. However, it has never happened in the European Parliaments that a speaker should teach his colleagues, but should be. However, I have to react when it has been stated that, because of ourselves, those who have submitted the final reports of the investigative commissions, these reports have been discussed by all those who sat in this Parliament, we know how, we have been able to avoid dealing with this, and this came only from the then liberal democracy, the majority of which had practically a majority in Parliament, from the meeting. [[...]] I handed over my report at the time of the Government of Liberal Democracy and was sitting. Don't push me around here. We know there was no political interest. You were leaving with obstruction that the meeting was concluded and had to be postponed to another session. At the end of the session, everything transferred from the previous meeting, and here makes no sense The extraordinary fear he reigned, the extraordinary fear reigned in your ranks, but nevertheless the investigative commissions made their own, Minister Bandelj was intertwined and so on. [[...]] And one more thing. When Mr Moge said that we have all the judiciary in our hands in this mandate, this is one of the most debilitating political distortions and is politically most dangerous. I am not satisfied with the Slovenian judiciary alone, with the current results, but I will take my last stand for its independence, and the judiciary in Slovenia is independent. After the issue that Moshe’s colleague put before me, it would mean that since we have a judiciary in our hands, the court ruled on Friday, condemning the perpetrators, contracting authorities and so on. Unfortunately, that didn't happen, and it didn't come to that end. And I have to say it again. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u57	Mr. Jerovšek, three minutes have passed. Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members! I would like to add a very short contribution to this debate because I was also a Member in the previous call of the National Assembly. I am aware that the Commission, as proposed today, is an instrument of opposition, a perfectly legitimate requirement and the National Assembly will undoubtedly set up this commission at the request of the opposition. The second is, of course, what will be the final result of this commission. I myself recall the case in the previous term when our fellow Member, Mr Branko Kelemina, issued a report on the sale of electricity during the two directors and Mr Tuerk, Director of Korosco, who was then replaced in the LDS-led government. In fact, he prepared a report on electricity prices "to zero". And proved here in Parliament how this sale and resale took place, how the profits were and so on. We are because the then ruling coalition of the report refused to adopt, of course not to adopt the conclusions proposed by the Commission, obstructed the meeting. I remember Mr Kelemina sitting here alone for about four hours explaining, reasoning, answering, and none of the conclusions at that time was adopted by the government. The result of the work was after all that Mr Kelemina put into it, in the end nothing. That is why such committees cannot have any great validity, but Parliament, as some of you have already pointed out today, does not have a great reputation among people, and this is, of course, the result of this work. As for the large pump, which was also launched at the time of Mercator's sale, and also when the Commission was set up, whose work we then extended, I would like to do what Mr Squeakl said. He claimed here today that the Court of Auditors had stated that the transaction was harmful. The Court of Auditors' report is still missing, Mr. Squeakl. I reacted immediately and I asked our professional services, a draft was made for KAD, not yet for the SOD, there is no report, you obviously have some information as Chairman of the Monitoring Commission that you should not have at this time because there is no report and this report is not available. But you've already announced what this report will say. However, I would like to inform you, you know, of the European Commission's decisions, which, on a complaint by journalist Financier Boštjan Osennik, stated that Mercator was not the case - I will just read: "...although the property of taxpayers in Mercator was not sold by the State with a public tender, the price reflected fair value," wrote the European Commission in yesterday's decision, which also wrote that there was no breach of legislation here. So that you, as president, could then also conclude this matter, as far as your insinuations are concerned, but not that you keep repeating them. I'd like to add the following to all this. There was a lot of talk on the committee responsible around this purchase of armoured personnel. The members of the committee looked at the documentation at the Ministry, and we had an extraordinary session here in Parliament. As a Member, I would say that it seems strange to me that our country of power is so, before the world public, we reveal all this information, what explanation do we have, what did we ever buy, where we made a mistake. And I'm going to say that I felt really uncomfortable when, let's say, at an extraordinary session of my fellow Member, the Victory of the Elinčič Noblemen here in the summer, what was purchased and what was all in our weapons "no number". I think, ladies and gentlemen, that some serious country, some serious parliament, is not doing this. On one occasion in the Prague Parliament, where they discussed the purchase of some aircraft, the position and opposition around this took different positions, argued differently, but did not do so in front of the public, and I would say to all neighbouring countries that they were revealing their military arsenal, what we are doing in this country. And that is also not an honor, Mr President of the Defence Committee, because you, as President, are projecting all these things and giving them as an initiative and collecting signatures and so on. I don't know, maybe I'm naive, but as a Member, I don't think that's how it works. We committed ourselves when we joined NATO to actually spend two percent of gross social product on military weapons. Of course, that's a lot, if this gross social product is over 6,000 billion, everyone can calculate how much it is and we can calculate it if you want. How many kindergartens, how many schools, how many hospitals or, if you want, municipal roads and so on - but this is because we are today in relation to NATO and that, of course, we also have to contribute as a country to our share in this global defence strategy against terrorism and similar things that are emerging today. Look, even Slovenia is, of course, still at risk through this, and through these new conflicts that are emerging in the world, they can still be affected. These are, of course, facts, and I think that this gathering of political points in this way of course does not lead anywhere. However, it is true that the opposition has this possibility that you have requested this commission to receive this commission and, of course, that it is also an entirely legitimate right of position, but in this commission, if not in this commission, and in any other commission, to extend this investigation to some other purchases, which, during the 12 years of another government, were probably much more than during the two-year rule of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u60	You're lucky, Mr Sok, that it's my turn to talk twice about your things: once as a replica and twice as of course as a debater. Are you kidding, you don't know, or something else? When you speak of parliamentary investigations as an instrument of opposition, you should still have so much, I would say, respect for us all and the public, who are accompanying this to know that this is an instrument of Parliament. And last but not least, there are two parliamentary investigative commissions established in this mandate that have been requested by the position, including your signature. You are second or third signed on those demands. And when it comes to selling the share of KAD and SOD at the time that you rushed to the photofinish to file a request for an investigation into Mercator, you just filed it with another member of the coalition. When it came to prosecutors, you also set it up and led by a coalition MP. So, what are you deceiving, what are you telling the truth about? However, I suppose it is not necessary for you to know this provision exactly and you may be mistaken about it, but it is not a great virtue. When it comes to the reports of previous calls, Mr Sok, you will have to remember or face the fact that the Bajuk government was in 2000, and that Mr. Similar President of the National Assembly, in the majority, in the majority of the coalition and that coalition did not want to put on the agenda. Are the dates, one of the predecessors, who is skilled in that perhaps even with the time machine to reverse time, probably could explain it - otherwise he goes out of the hall, he will fail, maybe another time. And when you talk about purpose; there was also a lot of talk in college about honest purposes, about pure purposes, today it was about the purposes of Mr Jerovsk - because he is in a hurry to hear that I am thinking about him too - and also by some other discussers, but, gentlemen, I do not know what purposes you are talking about - honest or dishonest! I am talking about the purposes mentioned above, the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry is in the 10 points. Ten points! It is necessary to determine whether the Minister of Defence, when explicitly requested from the President of the National Assembly, is the following: "Having regard to the fact that there are no relevant provisions in the Law on Economic Companies, the Law on Members, or the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the basis of which it would also be possible to protect business secrecy, as it is possible under the Law on the Protection of Secret Information, which provides that Members have access to classified information already under law." Members we have access to all data produced in the Republic of Slovenia, and this is intentional stalling, prevention, black and white, how to prevent Members from looking at data! The first indent, that is to say, is to find out why he was doing this: or because he did not want what was necessary, Mr Sok, when you say "we committed ourselves when we entered into partnership with other countries in NATO to devote 2% of the social gross product for these purposes". You know what we tied up there? To spend money for these purposes, to spend transparently, transparently and to make every tolar, every euro under Parliament's control, if you want the Defence Committee, the Budget Control Commission and so on. That's what we're committed to! At each meeting where the discussion on these issues takes place, transparency, transparency and similar matters come first. In order to avoid complex cases, including in some other parliaments, where in the past, one president has fallen down because of an investigative commission if you want Nixon, and if the investigative commission has recently found that the data relating to the attack on Iraq has been lied to that it was not what they claimed - in order to do so are the commissions of inquiry. It's not about showing my neighbors what we have to hide. We have instruments for closing meetings, storing data, the law obliges us to stick to it, if not, we are responsible. Let's use that. The Austrians, you think they have an investigative commission to buy Eurofighters, those planes for a crazy difference, to tell the Slovenians how to buy a plane, which also said we'd be a few more for military purposes. It was also written about "eurofighters" in the newspaper a while ago. And there are others. And the Austrians don't have an investigative commission to do that. You have had an eight-year opportunity to discuss this as the chairman of the committee, and we can continue to talk. Speaking of which, you think the Austrians are working for us to help us make a better decision. No, no, no. They're working for themselves because they want a review of the use of this money. This is all everywhere, in all democratic civilised countries, it is obviously all the more important for us that the minister writes that he does not want to allow sighting and that he does not see the basis and that he will not allow it. Then, when the president of the National Assembly was unable to suggest that he was doing this or to assist him in his work, he allowed us to take a look. And when we talk about what a mediator is, yes, it is necessary to separate whether it is a purchase of military equipment or a kilo of coffee. Clearly, not every inn will go to negotiate directly with the coffee maker, but they are intermediaries. And the difference between purposeful production, between what countries are doing, all countries are doing by talking directly, negotiating and concluding certain transactions that are of such nature that it is necessary to do so. That's the way it is, to say the least, uncomparable things. It could be a deliberate deceiving to cause some kind of confusion, like if they can sell something, maybe something else through intermediaries. No, no, no. When it comes to this type of product, countries decide, or those responsible, for direct negotiations, to negotiate - so of course, to get a lower price! I think exactly what it would be like if when they were invited, because this was about an invitation from the Slovenian state not to Rotis, but to Patricia, if you say so, and we are not talking to the country if Rotis is not there. Please! They are, however, a serious manufacturer, they are a serious supplier, not only in the Slovenian Army, but also look at who they have already sold and what they sold because it is on the Internet, Mr Sok, everything can be read, it is nothing secret in this sense and very difficult to find an example where there is an intermediary in such matters. And when it comes to much bigger, much different things, let alone when it comes to this, when we can talk about it, but it's a matter of understanding, it's a matter of conviction, what anyone wants to hear. All I want is for the National Assembly to say to the public that when we go into NATO, we have time and money for these things, but we spend it at a certain time in one way or another. Every euro must be clear on the table where it went, for what purposes. And that's all and nothing else here comes into play, hiding with such a secret or other, even comparing it ultimately doesn't interest me. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] with supplies in some other areas. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Sok, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u62	I'd like to replicate Mr. Anderlich for a moment. Of course there are commissions, parliamentary commissions! But once again, the opposition has every legitimate right to demand the establishment of such a commission. And as far as Mercator is concerned, you have requested the establishment of a commission to look at the Mercator sale and I have read to you today what the European Commission has said in this regard. But you did not agree to include in Mercator's sale a review of the sales that your coalition made in the 12 years. And because you did not agree with this, Mr Anderlich, it is quite appropriate that the position that came into power after the 1960s extended this matter, and then somehow you reacted insultfully and you no longer wanted to participate in this committee. As for this purchase of armor, you, Mr Anderlich, have been responsible for everything as chairman of the committee, you have been able to look at everything, and the second is whether you are satisfied with this, whether it is transparent enough for you or not. I guess it's never going to be transparent enough for you, but if they give you anything else, I don't know what kind of material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, you have the floor as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u64	Mr. Sok, you still don't believe what you're saying. If you believe, then I really don't know if I'm talking completely blank, and I quote, "There was no way to look." Here in this assembly, it was said that 25 armored men would be bought without equipment and that no one knew how much they would cost. In the documents of the National Assembly and Government, we have defined what we should buy for how much money we should get. And he doesn't want to give that answer here. There was something obvious about us at work, which, at least when I was a kid, was like this: if we went to the neighbor's house to "rub" cherry, and my mom got me, she said, "You can't do that, go ask, and the neighbors will give you that." And I say, "No, no, because we're all neighbors, they're thirds, they're not sure what!" Yes, please! Specific matter: definition for the purpose of the investigation, within the scope of the investigation for function holders in this mandate. You know, Mr. Sok, the investigative commission with the highest weight is the election. And these elections were in between, and they did their part. Now we have work to do, what happened - once again, I tell you, there is no problem, come, ask, do, as it is done, and we will see if there is any other political function, we will discuss it as well. But when we talk about the instrument of control, it is clear that it is those people who, at an exact time, had the public authority to have large amounts of public money, that when asked in Parliament, they must tell the cent exactly where they were going, why they had this money. You will find nowhere else in all democratic parliaments than what I say. That's all this is about. Let him explain himself here. Do you think that an investigative committee should be made if we don't ignore the National Assembly, the public, underestimate everything that we can show, we'll hide something, we'll hide it under a business secret, and we'll move on. No! No! But why didn't you want final reports in that half-year of Bajuk's government, but it will have to be said: the former President of Parliament, the current minister back in this government, and the current minister in this government, the then Prime Minister, who had the majority in this Parliament and didn't want to. This is probably something that will need to be respected in our conversations in advance. If we ask questions, what is opposition, as you say, the opposition has the right to answer, nothing else and to judge the public as to whether the funds were intended transparently for the right things and whether this country really got the best for the taxpayer's money. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u65	Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! Dear colleagues and colleagues! It would really be easier to discuss today if we were to set up an investigative commission to investigate why the minister chose Viator and Vector with 10 billion and more expensive offers with a product whose prototype was not available or produced at the time of the submission of the offer. It would be much easier and I think there would be a much more unproductive debate that we are hearing today as a rerun of an extraordinary meeting of 15 February. When, in fact, did this story of armored men begin? Did it start in 2004, when your colleague, Mr. Anderlič, Mr. Grizold, in the framework of the medium-term defence programme, was searching this path for these 135 armoured men in quantity and at an indicative budget of 63 billion, which has not changed significantly to date? Is it possible that when the National Assembly adopted a resolution in July 2004 on a long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces and processed the same material in it? When an earlier government guarantee of 2% of GDP for the military was given before joining the Alliance in 2004, is it obvious that we will not reach it for a while? That's when you didn't hear from him, on the contrary. The President of the Defence Committee, Sir Anderlič, explained at a visit from the Swedish Minister of Defence last year how it is imperative that our government fulfil the commitment made by the current government by 2% of GDP and that we will obviously not achieve this goal for a while. If you have not advertised these things in all these periods and have not challenged the additional money for the purposes of equipping the Slovenian Army, then I think you still have no moral right to moralize these things, especially not in such a way as to build hospitals, schools, dwellings and anything else at the expense of these funds. At that time, things could have been different, and we would not be discussing this today. So when did the story begin, when did it really start? You will recall, Sir Anderlič, that it actually began that moment, not when it was intended to collect offers and so on, all of this was of course known in these circles dealing with it, but began when it came to the public that the Viator&Vector or System Technology would not be selected. That's when these extraordinary sessions started, then the whole colloquial started, because we know that your client colleague, Mr Anderlič, Pavček, the manager of the holding company and the majority owner of this holding company Viator&Vektor didn't get the job. And yet, interestingly, during the duration of the invitation to tender, he had his own statements made in one of the media, which you presented to us in this paper, also visited various visitors in "high deeds", as he himself expressed. That's when this whole story began. Until then, there was no dispute, no quantity, no job height, nothing. And I firmly believe that these extraordinary meetings, as well as these today's debates and the commission or commission of inquiry, would not be, if the use of another provider, which we know should be paid more than 10 billion tolls more than the taxpayer's money, which, compared to what some people have been stressing today, is about 500 dwellings for young people. All these procedures expose the way you were used to working when you were in power. This is the most plastic way your President Mr Kacin confirmed yesterday in Trenji when he asked the Minister of Defence why the Pilates were purchased, why today we have these planes, where is the reason that we have them because they are unnecessary, Mr Kacin said: "Because you have not sold them yet, Mr Erjavec." These irrational purchases, which have been so many speeches that have taken place in all these years of your reign, can't be solved by any investigative commission, none. Sorry it's too late. The money that has been spent needlessly on projects that have obviously served only some other purposes, not defence and not for the purposes of greater security of this country, will never again be seen in the state budget. And it is true, the best investigative committee is always an election, but it is possible to agree with that. This is one of the few things I agree with, Sir Anderlich. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Respectable present. At the outset, I would like to say that, as far as the establishment of the commission of inquiry is concerned, I have absolutely no reservations, and I am also one of those who would like to finally discard all these suspicions and dilemmas that have arisen in recent times with the final report. I must say that in today's debate - given that I am a member of the Defence Committee, which I have had the opportunity to see a few more things than some who have been, I can say, the loudest today - spoken quite a few half-truths, guesses, I can also say some untruth in between. It is obvious to say once again that the Minister has not actually prevented control; this has been said several times today. He did not prevent him from looking at the complete documentation, the tender documents, the contracts, all the matters that we dealt with at the Ministry, where we were those members of the committee that we wanted to look at. We were looking at the same books, and I can tell myself that I was pleased with what I saw. There was a precise determination of how many configurations were foreseen. And between these in the tender documentation and these five configurations, there was also a base vehicle. So it is not a contradiction that something was written in the tender documentation and then something else was bought entirely. It just doesn't hold. Now this commission of inquiry will face it and it will also be able to see and identify itself. I have a feeling that whatever the Ministry would bring us would tell us whether the Ministry's representatives, whatever they'd become aware of, would never be enough for some. And that bothers me. I think that at this time there was no hiding, everything was transparent, we were available, we were familiar with all things. That is why there is a lot of deception in today’s world. The fact is, we Slovenians have decided on NATO. This means that we have acquired certain benefits, we have ensured security, and thus, clearly, we have also assumed certain responsibilities. And this responsibility is just a percentage of GDP that we have to earmark for the Slovenian Army. And in 2007, this percentage is 1.6 in 2008 1.8 of GDP, and in 2009 we will reach the 2% that we have talked about many times today. And these frameworks also include the acquisition of these basic resources so that the Slovenian Army can function at all. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] We've decided on such an army. Too bad I'm running out of time, 'cause I could say a lot more. But despite all that, I believe that our representative, who will be on this committee, will certainly be on certain things. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If I were to be the author or co-author of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I would give this point only about five minutes if the President read the act on the appointment of a parliamentary inquiry on the basis of a request not to 38, there is a mistake, but there are 32 Members and Members. Today we talked about everything possible, even Croatia, hospitals, clinical centres and so on. I'm ashamed. We torture ourselves and torture the Slovenian public, who accompany us and it is no wonder that he has such a very low "rating" of this national assembly. And if I'm talking about an act that was created on the basis of the request of respected colleagues and colleagues, then I have to say that this request is on page 3, in the second paragraph misleading or even lying! And that's another mistake I'm ashamed of. It reads as follows: "In addition, the members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Defence have been consistently denied the right to look into the contractual documentation..." and so on. If we were honest, we'd write, "and finally we just got the paperwork to look into it." And here I miss a little more truth. It is not clear to me, however, that I am not a long-distance parliamentarian, as is my colleague Anderlič, but a president of the Defence Committee, who can convene a meeting - two a day, one in the morning, one in the afternoon, to make the agenda to require an extraordinary meeting, [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] Actually, we have another extraordinary meeting today, and then it requires an investigative commission. [[...]] These things just don't go together, according to some farmer's logic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with the proposer?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u72	I'm not sure that farming logic differs significantly from general logic when it comes to comparing some simple things. But really, that's what this is about! This request specifically states that it has been rejected and prevented and I have a document here that you have. Read it, please. And talking about a lie isn't fair, it's not fair, and talking about not asking myself from the first day forward, citing sessions, giving incentives to make comparisons of what's required, signed, bought, and finally what's supposed to be. Mr Chernač has, of course, gone, but I have not once bothered not 2%, not buying 8x8, but what is essential to Parliament, to the parliaments of all democratic countries, to exercise democratic control. We have come to an extraordinary session to conclude that we do not know how many armored men will end up standing. They don't want to, they don't know. I don't know why. They say, "We bought 25 more armors, which are now a better price. What do we know about later!" Maybe they don't know if they're gonna need them. But it's still a lot of state money. And don't ask yourself that question as a parliamentary officer. And just because we had the opportunity to look into the documentation and to debate it here after perseverance, we found that there are differences and they do not want to explain them. And because they don't want to explain them, they need to be cleared up by democratic means. And this, of course, is a parliamentary investigation. A democratic asset. Mr. Chernač is careless, I think he's had a dream about it, at least 15 times he's mentioned my name. But he was talking about things that I never even discussed, and I had no idea that I would argue with him about it, because he's always talking about - the cherry-throwing I've talked about before, so there's no point in repeating it. But dear gentlemen and ladies! If you do not understand or do not want to understand that there is no really least concern that you do not find out what has been useful or what has not been reasonably procured in the past tense, there is no. But to judge this today 15 years ago, in the light of a completely different discussion, such as the discussion on specific procurement, which is nevertheless in the decision-making and verification phase on the other hand, whether it is the transparency of this business or not. That's all this is about. And every minister, every government, every coalition would still be interested in explaining even more in the first question than it is true, and a second question could potentially be raised first, not that we are in a position to take advantage of all democratic paths, but that we must end up using parliamentary investigations. And this is what worries, and this should concern the Prime Minister, this should concern all ministers and all Members and Members, particularly coalitions. If that's the way it is, then I don't know how to spell it. And there's not a thing you can hide so deeply that you wouldn't have come sooner than before. And I believe that the Slovenian public, even if I do not convene meetings, will come to an agreement on how, in what way, these strong hundreds of millions of euros have been spent.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u73	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure. I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly on Parliamentary Inquiry into the Parliamentary Inquiry, it shall not vote. I therefore note that the National Assembly ordered a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the public function holders involved in the preparation and implementation of the contract for the purchase of infantry armoured vehicles, medium-sized armoured wheeled vehicles 8x8 because of the suspicion that the transaction was politically negotiated, conducted in a non-transparent manner and that it was unconcerned, and because of the suspicion of the presence of customerism and corruption and the suspicion of a direct or indirect link between the current and former actors and the holders of public arms functions between 1991 and 1993. The purpose of the parliamentary inquiry is: to determine whether the exercise of the supervision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia over the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian Army has been deliberately delayed and hampered. Explanation. Whether the invitation to tender as well as the signature of the contract for the purchase of infantry armoured vehicles, medium armoured wheeled vehicles 8x8 was carried out in accordance with the rules and guidelines adopted by either the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Clarification and clarification of the terms and conditions of the procedure for the award of contracts of a confidential nature, the selection of bids for the purchase and signature of contracts for the purchase of medium-sized wheeled vehicles 8x8. Find out why and how the purchase was made through an intermediary. Find out what interests and what links or related transactions are in the background of buying. With regard to the purchase, establish direct and direct links between natural and legal persons and public function holders involved in both the sale and production of medium-sized wheeled vehicles 8x8. Identify the degree of involvement of individual public function holders with their political impact on the selection of tenders, purchase negotiations and signed contracts. To determine whether purchases have been made inadvertently and inconveniently, in particular for the benefit of the intermediary and the persons involved and for the detriment of the public interest or the State. Identify the level of political responsibility of individual public function holders. To establish a direct or indirect link between current and former actors in the arms trade and public function holders, as in a specific case the purchase of medium-sized wheeled vehicles 8x8 also occurs persons who were indirectly or directly related to arms trafficking between 1991 and 1993. The scope of the parliamentary inquiry is: the consistency of both the invitation to tender and the contracts concluded with all the annexes on the purchase of medium-sized wheeled vehicles 8x8 with the applicable legislation. The document is in the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces, in the defence programmes of the Republic of Slovenia, in the post-Slovenia branch with studies, plans, conclusions and other documents and decisions of the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which provided the basis for the purchase of infantry war vehicles of medium-sized armoured wheel vehicles 8x8, and in the guidelines of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for anti-acquisitions in the event of the purchase of weapons. Procedure for preparing and awarding contracts of a confidential nature for their purchase, selection of tenders, negotiations and on this basis a contract concluded with all annexes on the purchase of medium-sized wheeled vehicles 8x8 of 19 December 2006. Activities and direct and direct links between natural and legal persons and institutions of public functions involved in the purchase or invitation to tender, the selection of the best bidder, the negotiation and signing of the contract and the establishment of the production of medium-sized wheeled vehicles 8x8. Activities for selecting a mediator and so on. Direct or direct links between current or former employees at the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Army and holders of public functions and associated natural and legal persons in the arms trade between 1991-1993 and the last purchase of medium-sized wheeled vehicles 8x8. The same persons appear both in current and past arms transactions. With the purchase of armoured medium armored vehicles 8x8 related anti-supply goods or services produced in the Republic of Slovenia. The purchase or production of medium-sized wheeled vehicles 8x8 is linked to the opening of new direct and indirect jobs. The Parliamentary Commission is hereby designated. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry and to forward it to the National Assembly at the latest at its forthcoming meeting. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the assembly meeting, which we'll resume in half an hour, that's 2:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposal for decisions. Member of Parliament and Members, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. We are moving on to a follow-up to item 2 of the agenda - this is to the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register. On Wednesday, 28 March 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that due to the parental working body of the amendments adopted, the law would not be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the third item of the agenda - this is to the third reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the bond code. On Wednesday, 28 March 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 4th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia. On Wednesday, 28 March 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments have not been adopted to the draft law, it is not possible to submit the amendments in the third reading of the amendments, and therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that due to the parental working body of the amendments adopted, the law would not be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning, the harmonisation process. After the third reading of the bill, the government warned that the amendments had been adopted, so it prepared the harmonisation amendments by 26, 28, 34, to the title of Sections 323 to 40 and 105 of the articles you received on the bench. He wants to speak to the government about the harmonisation amendments? He doesn't want to. Do Members and Members want the word? I guess not. Since no one wants to debate or debate any more, I conclude this part. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendments. I am voting on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 26. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 4. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am voting on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 28. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 4. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am voting on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 34. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 4. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am voting on the Government's harmonisation amendment to the title of Section 323. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 4. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am voting on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 40. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present and 39 votes against 5. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I shall put the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 105 to the vote. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 5. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Explanation on behalf of the Group of Members. Commence application. Check-in is on. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have endeavoured to amend the existing law on the regulation of space from the very beginning when the Law on Spatial Planning came into the procedure, thus improving all the elements or content of the law that has proved to be necessary so far. Unfortunately, we have not been successful in coordination and, of course, the government or proposer has decided on a different path, a complete amendment to the law on space regulation or a proposal for a new law on spatial planning. This changed the terms that have already been established both in the congregations and with other planners in the room. In addition to these problems, which will certainly be expected in the individual revised terms, new legislation will also be reflected mainly in the fact that the deadlines for the adoption of municipal spatial acts necessary for the continuation of investments will be extended by at least two years. The worst part of all this is for sure the fact that we can all again and again find out that, however, both the professional public and the municipalities have failed with those specific comments that we can talk about the importance of spatial planning in Slovenia. Unfortunately, it was clearly a narrow political interest that prevailed over the interests of the profession. We therefore believe that there will also be extremely serious problems in the implementation of this law. In order to avoid being responsible for these problems, we still believe in the Group of Social Democrats that it would be better not to adopt this law and that a very broad debate is actually being held on the content and consensus is reached on how we can intervene into space. That's why we won't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u77	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! We do not support the law in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. A lot of arguments, why is that, were already foretold by my predecessor. We agree with all these arguments, but of course we open some new ones: the law, which is not ideological, is an apolitical law, but for Slovenians and Slovenians it is extremely important and in such a law it would be necessary to seek more consensus in the future. Even though we do not support the law, we want to make it a happy way, for it will be good for everyone. In any case, however, we point out that certain dilemmas that have not been resolved by this law can still be resolved and corrected by the Construction Act and the Engineering Act. We support the spirit and the idea of the law to rationalize, shorten and reduce procedures. It is not a citizen and a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia who does not sign this, but the paths that led you to this are undoubtedly a little fast and strange, but we are most disturbed by the great opposition of the great part of the profession. I agree with the argument that the profession is never, and is never, in all respects, uniform, but here it seems to me that there is simply too much of an important profession on the opposite coast, so we do not support this law in the LDS House of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Roberto Battelli has the word, no, you've made a mistake, be careful, please, another time. Mr. Boyan Rugelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u79	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the law, especially because it has been prepared in a very broad consensus and I believe that today, too, most of all Members will adopt this law, which is a really good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr Aloise Posedel has the floor. Not at all. Good. Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. It's a personal application. The application is under way. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It will probably not be difficult to guess that I will let you know that I will not be able to support this spatial planning law alone and not by agreement the entire Group of Non-Aligned Members. I have been opposed to this law since the beginning. In my opinion, the law is conceptually flawed, it deals with certain issues that are not important, but are not the only and sometimes not even the most important in regulating the space, other segments of the regulation of the premises leave the area unchanged and reburdens the municipalities with changes in the legal framework for regulating the premises at the municipal level and at the same time, which is very bad, in a series of articles, in fact transfers responsibility and competence from municipalities to the state level, you could even say the Ministry of Environment and Space. This violates one of the basic provisions, namely that regulating the premises is a matter of local domain and local jurisdiction. Practice will show where everything will need to be changed and how we will solve the individual problems that will arise in this regard, but we can say that this law will not contribute to faster regulation and planning of premises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u82	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 24. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and at the same time conclude the 26th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
