ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 34th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: only Bevk until 3 p.m., Dara Lavtišar Bebler and Dr Mark Pavlih. Also Robert Hrvat until 12 o'clock. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE FINANCIAL BUSINESS, PROCEDURES FOR INSOLVENCE AND FOREIGN DISCONTINUATION, Regular Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Secretary of State Robert Marolt. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! By regulating the proposal for a financial transaction law, insolvency and compulsory winding-up procedures, the current regulation is replaced by the financial regulation of the company and the law on compulsory settlement of bankruptcy and liquidation. The reasons for the adoption of the new law are as follows. Firstly, the modernisation of insolvency procedures and the alignment of arrangements with the needs of the developed market economy. Secondly, a comprehensive internal financial regulation, insolvency proceedings and forced termination procedures. Thirdly, the harmonisation of the regime with the positions formulated by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Fourthly, to ensure faster and more cost-effectively managed insolvency proceedings. And fifthly, shortening the duration of procedures that are now going on unreasonablely long. The draft law thus regulates the financial operations of legal persons, insolvency proceedings against legal and natural persons, including the enforcement procedure and bankruptcy proceedings involving bankruptcy proceedings against a legal person, the insolvency proceedings and the bankruptcy proceedings, and the compulsory termination of legal persons who are deleted from the register without liquidation and forced liquidation. The regulation of two types of insolvency proceedings: personal bankruptcy and bankruptcy of the succession is an essential novelty in regulating insolvency proceedings. The rules on the personal bankruptcy procedure shall apply to the bankruptcy of each natural person, both for the entrepreneur and for the consumer. According to the proposal of the law, the insolvency debtor’s ability to dispose of his assets belonging to bankruptcy and to assume new obligations is limited. The insolvency representative shall be represented by the manager in all transactions necessary to carry out the insolvency proceedings. As a bankruptcy proceedings against a legal person, the insolvency proceedings are also conducted due to the proportionate and simultaneous payment of the claims of all creditors. However, since a natural person, other than a legal person, does not terminate the insolvency proceedings after the end of the insolvency proceedings, they shall not cease the claims of creditors which were not paid in insolvency proceedings and may, pending the issuance of the decision on the termination of the insolvency proceedings, submit an application for exemption from their obligations arising prior to the commencement of the insolvency proceedings, in the part in which they will not be paid in this proceeding. By a decision to initiate a waiver procedure, the court shall determine a trial period not exceeding 5 years, taking into account the age of the debtor, his personal circumstances and the reasons for his insolvency, where any creditor or manager may object that there is no conditions for discharge. After the trial period, the court shall rule that the debtor is to be forgiven. This proposal also takes into account the views of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in its assessment of compliance with the Constitution, for the first time, the Financial Business Act 2002 and the Forced Settlement, bankruptcy Act, and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the 2006 liquidation. [[...]] The provisions of the last amendment of the Financial Business Act, established by the Constitutional Court with a decision this year, are also fully abolished by regulation in the draft law. In the opinion of the Constitutional Court in this Decision, such an arrangement whereby the shareholders would not be liable to the obligations of the company after the removal of the company without liquidation is not in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitution. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Drag Koren, to present the report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u4	Good afternoon, everyone. At its 39th meeting, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the proposal for a Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration on a regular basis. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Law and Legal Service and a representative of a civil initiative, illegally deleted companies. The representative of the proposer, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Robert Marolt, provided an additional explanation on the proposal for the law, stating that the draft law regulates financial transactions in a comprehensive and internal manner, as well as the procedures for forced settlement, bankruptcy and forcible termination of legal persons, while at the same time fully abolishing the unconstitutionality of the amendment to the Law on the Financial Operation of Businesses, namely the three decisions of the Constitutional Court. The bill replaces regulation in two laws, namely the law on compulsory settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation and the law on corporate financial transactions. Many legal institutions are also regulated, namely the personal bankruptcy and bankruptcy proceedings and insolvency proceedings with an international element. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that their written comments had been taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups or duly clarified by the Ministry of Justice. The representative of the Civil Initiative of illegally deleted companies initially said that 40,000 companies had been illegally deleted and that the companies had been first deleted and the debtors remained solely due to unpaid capital company accounts. However, in view of the removal by official duty of companies, the company’s shareholders responded to the obligations of companies by means of personal property, contrary to the principle of corporate law of separation between the company’s assets and the company’s personal property. He then presented a written initiative of that civil initiative, proposing that the bill should be withdrawn from the legislative procedure until it is in line with the company law with the essential elements of the amendment to the Financial Business Act adopted by the National Assembly in March 2007 and with the corporate legislation of the European Community. The members of the committee then wanted, in particular, an explanation of the representatives of the proposer and the Legal and Legislative Service regarding the warnings of the civil initiative. Members agreed that the warnings of civil initiatives were serious and that they also had many tragic family stories. For that reason, they proposed that, if possible, the possibility of submitting the relevant amendments should be considered before the consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court in which the proposal for a law is coordinated. The Committee further considered the amendments tabled by the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS coalition groups and adopted all amendments to Article 48 and to the section title.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Majda Zupan has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! Dear Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and forced termination not only deals with bankruptcy but is of a much broader scope. In fact, bankruptcy law is only part of insolvency law and includes various forms of rehabilitation in order to maintain the corporate function of organised property by the bankruptcy debtor. The basic principle is to rescue the debtor before bankruptcy if it is found to be capable and worth recovery. Insolvency proceedings are currently regulated in a large number of regulations. Forcible settlement and bankruptcy and liquidation are regulated by the law on compulsory settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation. The rules of financial management and the removal of a company without liquidation are governed by the law on the financial operations of companies which are subject to numerous debates, litigation, constitutional judgements, and, last but not least, the representatives of the civil initiative of illegally deleted companies have pointed to this. The law follows the principles and solutions of the 2004 United Nations Legislative Guidelines on Insolvency Law. The guidelines recommend that countries take due account of economic efficiency assessments and their legal arrangements for insolvency procedures when adopting new rules in this field. The biggest novelty of the law is the institution of personal bankruptcy, as the necessity of these dictates the overindebtedness of the population. The reason for the arrangement is that it is necessary to allow an individual to resume his life without material burdens. In Slovenian practice, the introduction of personal bankruptcy and waivers are also necessary due to large defaults in enforcement. Personal bankruptcy itself as a judicial proceeding will not contribute significantly to solving the problem of overindebtedness of the population, but over time it will reduce the impact of a large number of debtors who have become debtors without their particular guilt and responsibility. In Slovenia, there are more than 100,000 debtors who pay on the basis of the law on the financial operation of companies in debt-debted companies under an official obligation without abusing their company. In the New Slovenia Group, we would like to stress that personal bankruptcy also has a social function. Opponents of the introduction at this point point point out that the debts of some debtors will be paid by all. This can be true, as personal bankruptcy will certainly affect the practice of financial institutions and, as a result, increased risk to lenders will allow credit to rise, although foreign practice shows us that this has not happened to them. Nevertheless, we still need to take into account the position of the creditor and the right to have his claims paid. The relationship between creditors and debtors needs to be settled in a spirit of balance between rights and obligations between each other and vice versa. However, practice will show whether this relationship is indeed regulated in a normative manner. The adoption of the law ends in Slovenian law the harmonisation of economic law with the law of the European Union. At the same time, the issues raised so far by inappropriate legislation are being resolved. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposed law, but we want to see that, in the face of the ever-new challenges of a globalised economy, judicial practice is more creative than it has so far addressed open issues that the legislator cannot foresee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Drofenik has the floor, on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u8	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! The applicable law on forced settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation was adopted 14 years ago. At that time, the Slovenian economy was in a completely different situation than today, when we already have a developed market economy. Therefore, the preparation of a new, comprehensive law on financial transactions, insolvency and forced termination is necessary and expected. The draft law also covers the current law on the financial business of enterprises. The proposal also introduces some new institutions that are not familiar with the current legislation, notably the arrangements for bankruptcy and personal bankruptcy. The proposed law is very professional and in our view it is well regulated by the matter under consideration. On the Committee, in fact, most of the debate was limited to a discussion on deleted companies on an official duty whose shareholders were responsible for company obligations for the removal of their official duties. In fact, this is a debate that we recall from March this year when we changed the law on corporate financial operations and in line with the initiative of a civil initiative of illegally deleted companies. The Constitutional Court subsequently repealed Article 4 of the amendment in view of the prohibition of retroactive application, and the proposed law follows that decision by the Constitutional Court. We are aware that this area is still problematic, but we are committed to our Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court, and we will also support this solution. The law is prepared in accordance with the rules of international insolvency law and in accordance with the developed market economy. The law is based on the principle of equal treatment of creditors and follows the provision of the best conditions for the payment of creditors. The same treatment of creditors is important in particular before the application for insolvency proceedings is submitted when the management of the debtor of certain creditors could be considered discriminatory. The same treatment is, of course, also applicable in the enforcement and bankruptcy proceedings. The new law clearly lays down the company’s management obligations in cases where the company becomes insolvent. In particular, the public publication of all important procedural actions in insolvency proceedings, namely on public websites, is welcome. In this way, in our view, full transparency of procedures and, above all, effective public awareness of all measures is ensured. The way of publishing on the official lists and on the notice boards of the courts so far has been significantly less effective. We believe that this solution is in the interest of the creditors. The debtor’s interest in financial restructuring under the enforcement settlement procedure is limited to the interest of creditors in order to achieve more favourable conditions for payment of their claims. We believe that this is an appropriate solution, as the interests of creditors need to be protected in particular. The bankruptcy of a natural person and the bankruptcy of a legacy are an institution we know from a comparative regime in other countries. In this respect, the proposed law correctly summarises them and, in particular, provides for a proportionate and simultaneous payment of the claims of all creditors of the individual natural person. In view of the content of the law, there is much more to be said. The key is that the law is prepared professionally. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we consider it good and we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u10	Dear colleagues, Members and Members, Presidents, representatives of the Government! Well, yeah, now it's a diction "if, if, if, in all," and so on, we're familiar with it from previous times, let me start a different way. If someone does a job as a subcontractor, if the contractor, if we call it whatever you want, we can call it a capital company, we can call it whatever, this subcontractor doesn't pay the work he's done and I can't pay my debt forward, tell me very frankly who's to blame in this case. I really want to know who did this. Capital companies lie down, don't settle accounts, in the worst case they go bankrupt, they set up a new company, the old company disappears, 40,000, 40,000, 40,000, I stress the third time, and the company remains in the air. Because, most of them, not all of them, I'm not going to say that they're all the same, most of the capital companies didn't pay them. You couldn't pay your debts forward. And now these 40,000 have been wiped out. And worst of all, they answer with personal responsibility. Is he holding or not holding? If I'm wrong, tell me. They answer with personal responsibility, which is, of course, let's put ourselves in our skin, that I'm a subcontractor, that I do something, someone else doesn't pay me, you wipe me out, you wipe out my company, I'm gone, and I'm finally answering my wife and my children. Is that normal or not normal? I don't think that's normal. And that's the point of the problem. Another time. This law has, I think, about 500 articles. And as far as I can remember, although this -- I'm sorry, it's not my area, but I've been taught -- it's more than six of these articles have been amended. As far as I can recall, the Legal and Legislative Service has had countless comments. Whether they were nomtechnicians or not, I don't care. She had comments. Once we've got a piece of legislation, we can't afford it. As far as I've read and magnetograms and content of laws and opinions of the Legal and Legal Service. Therefore, the solution is perfectly clear. In the Slovenian National Party, we will only support this law if we, respected colleagues and colleagues, answer: Is the proposal of this law in line with the company law? Second question: Is the proposal for a law in line with the essential elements of the law amending the law on corporate financial transactions? This was adopted in March of this year. Third question: Is this bill in line with the corporate legislation of the European Community? Question four: Is the deletion procedure in accordance with the GDD? Fifth question: Is the deletion process carried out by informing the founders? Question six: Is the personal responsibility of members not established? This is the Law on the ZGD, section 472 which expressly rejects. And the last question: Expression is an active and passive associate. The LAG does not know it, does not know it, does not know it, is not known by European Union corporate legislation and without being determined it allows the transfer of capital company liabilities to its founders. The questions are, and I hope, that this moment is written in a magnetogram that is very clear. If YES is the answer to all these questions, the Slovenian National Party will support the draft law. If it is NOT, it will absolutely oppose both colleagues and colleagues, be honest, be fair to all 40,000. That's not 400, that's 40,000. And do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Practice and experience have shown that the current legislation will still need to be slightly updated, amended, supplemented. And we have before us a proposal for a law that replaces the regulation of the law on forced settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation and the law on corporate financial transactions. The draft law, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, fully regulates this area and also eliminates certain unconstitutionalities. I wouldn't repeat forerunners about the content. In particular, I would like to stress only the news mentioned so far, which we have not known in Slovenia, which is a personal bankruptcy. A natural person’s bankruptcy may be imposed, claiming to be a sole entrepreneur, self-employed or consumer. It is important that the insolvency proceedings may be initiated or initiated for the purpose of a proportionate and simultaneous payment of the claims of all creditors. When we discussed the law on the committee, we also listened particularly to representatives of the civil initiative representing the interests of 40,000 illegally erased companies or associates who, due to the provisions of the law adopted during another period proposed by another government, were then also responsible for the payment of company liabilities with their personal property. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that in these cases there have been many very difficult situations where the obligations have also been paid by those who did not expect or may not have had a full impact on certain business decisions, but that is how the decision has been made by practice. We have listened with attention to these people who have great problems, but our view is that, while things are difficult to fix in return, there may still be a solution, but we are convinced that all of these cases should be carefully examined whether all of these are victims. In our opinion, there are many of these, but with some selective review it would also be possible to determine whether they are not among them who, for some reason, have allowed the company to be in a poor business situation. There are also many who, at least at the beginning when entrepreneurship began to develop in our country, because of ignorance, because of poor information, because of the lack of knowledge of the business insurance instruments, have also contributed slightly to the fact that these companies are in difficulty. However, as has already been said, we would support a solution that would really help these entrepreneurs in those most critical cases. But in our view, this solution cannot be made or accepted in this law, so another option will have to be found. Otherwise, we believe that this law, which is complex, says already the number of articles, is good in our belief, and we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry, good morning! In the Group of Social Democrats, we agree that the issue of insolvency, as well as insolvency proceedings and the removal of businesses on this basis, must be re-arranged. According to our behavior, however, we feel that a good knowledge of this problem is not easy. This is a very complex issue where the competent Ministry of Justice is faced not only with the practice that should be taken into account in our legislation from abroad, but also with the rules concerning areas. In particular, I am referring to the economic and financial business which I would hope to claim that the Ministry of Justice is not the most called to regulate, and probably has only certain problems in this respect. That is why, in the debate on the working body, we tried to get answers from the Ministry of Justice to the questions raised when serious questions were raised at the time of the law. I must state that we have not received the answers in the right way. And in this part, I believe that the report of the parent working body predominates the debate on the working body itself. In particular, representatives of the civil initiative of illegally deleted companies have raised very, very specific questions. The requests from opposition Members were to give very concrete answers to these questions. I must say, I tried to follow the ministry's answers correctly, but I do not hope to get any answers. In my opinion, the answers are not given. It is a complex question that there are also several decisions of the Constitutional Court, which had to be properly incorporated. By about 500 articles of the law, there were together more than 70 amendments made by the Legal and Legal Service. It is true that, on the basis of the amendments adopted, these were, I think, 48, in general, her opinion that the comments she made were taken into account in most cases. However, the answers were not given as regards the civil initiative and were not given as to the understanding and method of implementing the Constitutional Court decision. Let me also say that it is not irrelevant for us that, in such a difficult law, we have not been given an answer by the applicant as to the reasons why the Council of Justice, as it was written down to the National Assembly, has failed to form views on its content due to the short time and complexity of the issue, which only raises further doubts as to whether, once again, things are, I stress, extremely difficult issues are well prepared. In the Group of Social Democrats we fear that they are not, we fear that the practical situation and specific problems, the concrete consequences that will arise from the new institutions introduced by the law, as well as by solving the problems of deleted companies, are still not sufficiently premeditated that the law will not have the effects that it looks forward to, therefore [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We will not support him in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we will vote on the amended draft law in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 13th item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.05. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the general administrative procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Please, Mr. Mag. Rape, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members! With the proposed amendment and amendments to the General Administrative Procedure Act, we want to bring administrative services even more closely to its users by simplifying the existing procedures and making more use of electronic services. This, of course, will also affect the greater efficiency of the administrative procedure. The law already allows the full implementation of the administrative procedure by electronic means to be carried out today, which, last but not least, also brings us to the summit of electronic e-government services within the European Union. This particular procedure means that you can submit an application and follow the procedure until the issue or from the service of a particular decision. The experience we have in the area of electronic commerce has shown that these procedures could be further optimised. Therefore, in the electronic service segment, we have supplemented the existing provision with the general obligation of the Authority to perform electronic service whenever it can safely ascertain that the customer has an open secure electronic drawer. If it does not, the service shall be carried out on a physical basis, as already defined in Article 87 of that Act. We have also clearly defined in the law when the legal effect in the case of electronic service can arise. The aim of greater efficiency is also to establish an institute for the abolition of the right to appeal, which has not yet been known by this law. Its purpose is to enable the party to make more rapid use of the material right exercised in a particular procedure. This measure will significantly improve the position of the party in the process. The Law also follows the amendments made by the additions and amendments to the Law on the application of residence. This provides or imposes an obligation on an individual that, when he changes his temporary or permanent residence, he should also set out an address for service. The law also adds a legal basis to enable the administrative authorities to obtain personal data necessary for the implementation of the administrative procedure, irrespective of where the data controller is located. The Authority will only be able to obtain the information necessary to determine the actual situation in a particular procedure, with a clear determination of the purpose of the application, the legal basis and the specific administrative matter. The current regime also allows administrative authorities to return administrative matters to the resolution of first-degree bodies. This often leads to a situation where the first and second stages of each other put the matter in order. In these proceedings, of course, the parties are in a position of disfavor by the administrative authorities. With the solutions proposed, we are eliminating this option. The proposed amendments thus provide additional options for a more efficient, faster and more rational functioning of administrative bodies. We have also followed the principle of legality and the principle of economics in the context of the changes, as the novel notes in particular the speed, cost-effectiveness and efficiency of administrative operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Drag Koren, President, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, chairman. Once again, a nice round of greetings to all present. At its 39th meeting, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the General Administrative Procedure Act. Representatives of the proposer with the State Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration, Mag. Roman Rep and representative of the Legal and Legislative Service Method Hrvat Pirnat. The Committee was presented with a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and an opinion of the municipality of Ljubljana. First, the representative of the proposer submitted a supplementary explanation to the draft law. He said that the proposed amendments represented a way to implement the fundamental principle of legality and the principle of economics, stressing the speed, cost-effectiveness and efficiency of the administrative procedure. The Institute for the Cancellation of the Right to Appeal shall apply for the first time in the general administrative procedure, as it has so far been used only in certain specific administrative procedures. Its purpose is to enable the party to make more rapid use of the material right it has exercised in the proceedings. In the field of electronic commerce, the provisions on electronic service shall be supplemented. In the case of electronic transactions, the addressee shall be allowed to personally familiarise himself with the content of the document at any time and anywhere using a secure electronic signature. The proposed amendment also complements the law with a service title set out in the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on residence registration. The law also adds a legal basis which will allow the authorities in administrative proceedings to obtain or process personal data necessary for the implementation of the administrative procedure, irrespective of where such personal data are located. However, the situation of the appellant authorities is also changing in cases where the first-degree authority to which the administrative matter has been returned for reasons of economy has not followed the instructions on the necessary completion of the procedure. In resolving the appeal, they must resolve the matter on their own and cannot return it to the first stage. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service then briefly presented the written opinion from which she made a general comment relating to the waiver of the complaint. It also pointed to a new Article 34a, which it considers to be too extensive and that administrative authorities have too much authority to obtain personal data on an individual. In the course of the debate on the draft opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, an amendment was proposed to the Article 4 Committee, which was not adopted by the Committee. The amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 35 and the amendment of the Committee to Article 15 was adopted. Finally, of course, he accepted all the other articles.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleague, colleagues, government representatives! It is true that the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the General Administrative Procedure Act is an attempt by the competent Ministry of Simplification, or probably true, of procedures. If we read the objectives proposed by the Government, they are, on the one hand, desirable. We are talking about the waiver of the right to appeal, we are saying that monetary penalties are changing to euros, which is, in fact, a purely nominal procedure for me, we are talking about changes which provide for a limitation on the powers of the second-degree authority when the matter is being referred back to the decision of the first-degree body. In short, it's attractive at first sight. However, at point 1, when we say that, for the first time in the general administrative procedure, the Institute of Cancellation of Rights or the Right to Complaints is established, they are on the home labour body where they are or are, I do not know who belongs to, where they are sitting and where the Legislative and Legal Service is sitting, and that is why we also have and pay it, have defined and highlighted the point that the latter could lead to abuse and deterioration of the position of the party, as it would enable administrative authorities to avoid and control and at the same time the relationship between the body and the party would become significantly hampered and exposed to pressure. The legislative and legal service, which we therefore have to draw attention to mistakes, has also pointed to a new Article 34a, paragraph 4 of the bill. It considers that this is too extensive to have administrative authorities, that is, too much power to obtain personal data from an individual. If we continue to review the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, there are quite a few. The Legislative and Legal Service has warned that the proposed solutions will lead to a further increase in the number of cases in the courts. Another time. She made comments on the article dealing with the issue of electronic service, asked the question, for the third time, who is leading such procedures, who is responsible for them, what are the consequences of errors in such a system. Fourthly, she commented on the cancellation of the appeal in the administrative procedure, which I have already mentioned. Fifthly, she mentioned that the vague provisions governing the extradition of officials of the municipal administration, the exclusion, I apologize, the appointment of officials of the municipal administration and the provincial administration. Last but not least, the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that it is at issue with the newly regulated service, where the servicer may also serve documents to a person who does not show up with the authority or for whom the party has informed the authority that it has authorised it. The type of warnings from the Legal and Legislative Service, once again, I stress that we must understand whether we like someone in this service or not, that is why he is here to warn us, and that he is here to warn the legislator that he is acting on legal provisions. And above all, the first ones responsible for following the law and the legal provisions, we, colleagues and colleagues, are present in this National Assembly, and everyone else who is not present at this time. For we are the legislative branch of power and we are responsible for respect for the rights or adopted articles of various laws. One of the political options proposed the withdrawal of this law and public opinion research. It is also justified, although I am not absolutely bound, even though we are very serious about regionalisation at this point because we have a single or two-tier system. If we have a two-tier system, they are such competences, or they are uniform - it is all the same, clearly defined in the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service as inaccurate, perhaps even inconsistent with the legislation and, above all, give too much authority to individuals or individuals or individual organisations. I think this is worrying, and I think it is fair on our part, by the National Assembly, that the legislative branch of the government, that such a bill, which is very important and for which I believe that a lot of people are trying, should be considered more wisely, slowly and also through public opinion research. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is a matter of amending the law, which will bring some good solutions, which will make the general administrative procedures shorter, more efficient, more economical, as we all want, both the parties and, on the other hand, those who run this process. The law also further develops electronic commerce, particularly in the area of service, and is an important step forward in this area. What has proved to be most problematic in the debate is the institution to waive the right to appeal in this general administrative procedure, which we have first introduced in this area. We used to know her in some special administrative procedures. While some point out that the waiver of the right to appeal will lead to abuse and aggravation of the customer's position. We do not attach this to our Group of Members. It is an institution for which each party chooses voluntarily and will, first of all, result in a reduction of the procedure, a greater efficiency than that of a party in a worse position. The practice so far in these specific administrative procedures, where we already know it, has not produced such experience. That's why we think this solution is good. Along with everyone else, we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor, on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The General Administrative Procedure Act entered into force on 1 April 2004. From then on until today, according to my records, he has been modified and supplemented four times. This is the fifth amendment and the amendment of the law. When we have reviewed the proposal, we have also assessed that it has many useful substantive definitions and that, as a general intention of the current government, I think not bad, but in many ways necessary and good, it will contribute to simplifying procedures, contribute to the greater use of information technology in this regard and help to make decisions more effective within a reasonable timeframe in the area of administrative procedure. This was also the reason why we did not decide to propose a general debate on the law and we thought that it would be possible to hold a second debate. When we obtained the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and examined it carefully, we came to the conclusion that it would be useful to have some issues that the Legislative and Legal Service specifically warns us about, to do what the legislative process has to do, and that is why we also suggested in the Group that a general presentation of opinions should be made, because we were concerned that it was not good that the proponents did not tell us how they had involved themselves in the proposals that they had in mind. We are thinking mainly about administrative workers, we are thinking about the administrative court and probably someone else, because it would be useful to hear their opinion, so that we would not happen, so that the warnings, which were the content of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, would prove to be justified and cause problems in practice. It seemed to us that there were some questions such as these that we should consider in particular in this regard. The first such issue is the relationship between the content of the law and the law. On this issue, the Legislative and Legal Service certainly has a lot of experience, more than any single ministry. A warning that this relationship is not adequate would be worth checking and the applicants were not prepared. The other thing that has already been mentioned is the question of the Institute's refusal of the right to appeal, which is true, I think that it is envisaged in two specific administrative procedures, but not in the General Administrative Procedure Act. The Legislative and Legal Service reminds us that the introduction of this institution could have negative consequences for the parties of the other parties to the proceedings, in particular the Prosecutor and the Public Defender, and that it would therefore indicate that this institution is individually and re-checked. Third question, the question of the power of an employee in the municipal administration to conduct the appeal procedure, where a conflict of interest could arise in the current proposed regime. And the fourth, very important question, is the issue of the protection of personal data, where there are no safeguards that can ensure that personal data are not used and collected without need and without guarantee that their content will not be misused. It seems to us a pity that the proposal for a public presentation has not been implemented. I'd say fourteen days or a month later, but that's the belief that she's better. Since this is not the case, we will not support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Drago Koren has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u26	The General Administrative Procedure is a fundamental procedure that obliges administrative and other public authorities, authorities of local self-government, public authorities when deciding on administrative matters. The first major novel of the ZUP, as we call it in the general language of conversation, was adopted by the National Assembly in this composition two years ago. The analysis of the impact of the novel over the past two years showed a number of advantages, as well as some weaknesses, and the Government decided to make changes. Provisions are being implemented that have caused problems in daily use, in particular the question of the determination of competences, the issue of service and the acquisition of personal data. The development of technology and increased accessibility to electronic administrative operations have also revealed certain user requirements. If the customer submits an application by electronic means and does not communicate the address of a secure electronic transmission, the service to the customer will take place on the same route as before, it is said, by personal service. The notes also contain amended provisions on the address for service as they comply with the provisions set out in the amendment to the law on permanent residence. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the introduction of the Institute of Cancellation of the Right to Complaint, which is introduced into the general administrative procedure for the first time. It seems important to us in particular that the parties are allowed the right to appeal before the expiry of the appeal period, and this will make the decision definitive as soon as possible. I must say from my own experience that this is certainly a very good thing, that people have tried to enforce it more than once, and there has been no such legal possibility so far. An extremely important novelty is also the commitment to the authorities of the second stage to decide their own case in the event of a complaint against the decision of the first stage, which was returned to them by the administrative matter for reasons of economy. This will prevent the so-called ping-pong between the first and second stages. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the changes do not change the established principles of the general administrative procedure. The solutions proposed are only an effective definition of the principles and we hope that they will help bring about more rational administrative procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we will vote on the amended bill in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Mr Bojan Starman, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I say hello to everything! At its 34th meeting on 29 November this year, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax. He received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service. No amendments were tabled. It follows from the explanation that the amendment introduces Article 55a and infringes Article 60 of the Law on the Income of Legal Persons with a newly introduced tax relief when investing in research and development by proposing a lower rate of general tax rate for taxable persons at the southern border or within the 10km border zone. It is said that the development of this neglected area is in some way being encouraged. After a longer discussion and consideration of the arguments of both sides, the fact that this law is not suitable for further consideration has prevailed, and this has also been adopted by the Committee and we propose the same proposal to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Here you go, Mr. Mag. It's Lavrich's brand.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u30	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As Mr Starman, Chairman of the Committee, has already said, I will add something quickly to this proposal from the Council of State. The purpose of this proposal is to allow certain additional tax reliefs in the 10km border band between Slovenia and Croatia, amounting to 50% of the amount invested under certain additional conditions. The proposal also provides that the tax would be paid there only at 14% of the tax base. However, the applicant, the Council of State, considered that this would increase the competitiveness of the economy in the area and reduce unemployment rates and increase prosperity in the area. The government doesn't think this proposal is good, so it rejects it. Such reliefs have already been removed in the new law and are not in line with the tax policy we have. It is also a very important element that this amendment of the law contains elements of State aid which need to be taken into account in the field of State aid. This means that such amendments to the rules should be notified to the European Commission, which is then approved or not approved. We can also ask ourselves about the effectiveness or inefficiency of such measures. A number of analyses carried out for Slovenia or related countries show that such investment incentives do not have an impact on the larger or additional total volume of investments. In our view, however, the burdens are achieved through other measures, including the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, the latter also contains. This is an exception to dividends, certain profits, recognition of ratings as expenditure, etc. The envisaged investment relief at the level submitted, as assessed by the Government, is also not appropriate for the reason that the existing legislation brings relief to research and development. It means general and additional regional. The proposal also contains an additional condition for the enforcement of the relief, it is said, not a division of profits for a certain period, which the Government considers to be non-life and has already been eliminated, and is also controversial because it is in fact incompatible with Community law, the European Union is said to be. We also believe that the lower rate is unacceptable for systemic and public financial reasons, because it is essential to take into account the fact that tax revenues are used to meet other needs, so that we consider that greater reductions are not even comparable. I would also like to point out that the existing legislation provides for a gradual reduction in the tax rate so that it will be 20% from 2010. The Government therefore considers that these concrete solutions proposed by the State Council are not in fact adequately designed and therefore unacceptable. And we believe that, in line with the objectives and purposes of the existing tax policy, we do not think that the proposal for a law is a suitable basis for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u32	Respectable present. I must basically express my disappointment that the author of this law is not with us today. The fact is that at least the authors here are present, give an introductory explanation, tell the idea that they wanted to achieve with the marriage novel, and today the representative of the State Council is not even with us, that is the author of the text. We got the position of the mother labour body, we got the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but we didn't get the ideas given by the proposer at all. According to my assessment, this may indicate one thing, or that someone does not follow his past work in the context of the procedure, i.e. the past Council of State, or that he does not believe in the novel they have submitted for consideration, I am speaking to the past Council of State. However, as far as the proposed amendments are concerned, at least according to the position of the National Party's Group, I have to divide them into two sets. The first set, which is positive and is set out in the amendment to Article 55a, introduces or complements the so-called elasticity of fiscal policy, which I personally believe is particularly welcome in areas that are less developed or in activities that are degraded within our country for that or for that reason. The fact is that decentralisation should also take place through elastic tax policy, but unfortunately our Government is not prepared to do so. At this address, the State Secretary said that the question of what would be the impact of the tax change on development or better competitiveness, increased investment in that area, but the Government did not reply why it felt that the changes were not welcome for this reason, i.e. the impact of tax policy on the development of the economy, both micro and macro. However, I would like to point out what seems unacceptable to us within the National Party's Group of Ambassadors, unfortunately neither did the Legal and Legislative Service respond to this in the context of its entire contribution, namely Article 2 which reads: "In municipalities at the external border of the EU with the Republic of Croatia, the tax is paid on 14% of the basis." Ladies and gentlemen, we are still living in the Republic of Slovenia, and it would be appropriate to have at least this second article read "in municipalities at the external border of the Republic of Slovenia", not that we are now, within the framework of domestic legislation, within the final or any provisions of the Government or any other candidate, speaking "at the external border of the European Union". I am in the first stage, as I believe all my fellow Members from the National Party, Slovenian. And if we start writing Slovenian legislation, it's going to be like we're degrade ourselves or we're humiliating ourselves and we're humiliating ourselves, and we're doing it wrong. From this title and only from the title of Article 2, where, once again, I have pointed out, for the first time under Slovenian legislation, the text in Slovenian law, since we are Slovenian Parliament, "in the municipalities on the external border of the European Union," I believe that the legislative and legal service should react in this area, since the European Union has no classified municipalities anywhere, we have already seen a disagreement from out here in the above-mentioned section of the article. So if the proposalr said that it was a mistake to sign up the EU instead of Slovenia, they would say that the great, first content part or article is acceptable, but still remains in the municipalities at the external border of the European Union with the Republic of Croatia. According to my assessment, this is an exceptional grave intervention not only in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, but in particular the reflection of the Institute of the State Council, the Legal and Legal Service and, last but not least, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia until the future of our country of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u34	For the third time, thank you for your word. In our parliamentary group, we fully agree with the proposaler's assessment, namely that in Slovenia, there is a great imbalance between own income per capita, that high-educated and well-paid workers or employees are mainly in some centres, that less developed municipalities face major problems when they want to carry out projects for which they have received funds, but they do not have their own resources or are trained enough to continue for many years some negative trends in the area of regional development, that some areas due to poor transport links are in some way hampered in development and away from centres where there is a more vibrant economic activity. We agree with all of this. That's a fact. We have been talking about this in Slovenia for many years. And the situation hasn't improved. However, it seems to us that this law, generally speaking, does not solve these problems, that the approach taken by the proponents is not the right one. Not only do we have a difference or a poorly developed belt at our southern border, we have great differences between individual regions, landscapes, regions in Slovenia, which are at any other border and also for these cases should be taken care of. Such tax relief is not a practice in Europe. Many countries from Slovakia, Finland, Germany, Italy, the Czech Republic and so on do not know such arrangements. They do not know because, in fact, this is a case of some elements of state aid, which we know are subject to very strict rules in the European Union. That is why we do not support such a law in our parliamentary group. We believe that other laws will have to be adopted for these problems that have been tried by the applicants to resolve by this law. We have before us a case of provincial legislation, a package that would solve these and other cases of developmental differences and over-centralisation of Slovenia, and therefore we expect those who agree that something needs to be done in this area to support this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pečan has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President, and a nice greeting to all present in the Chamber. The Social Democrats' Group will support this bill for some important reasons, which are also linked to the Government's opinion. It maintains that in the new Law on corporate tax, the relationship to tax relief is substantially changed, but the fact that we already hear a few comments from the economy that none of the benefits, including the reduction of wage tax, is in fact as positive as the abolition of the general reduction of the tax base due to investment in the economy. It is also apparent from the statements of highly-intensified development companies that the benefits for R & D do not have the expected impact. In fact, this law is limited to a 10km belt at the Croatian-Slovenian border, and, first and foremost, I must say that it does not hold that this is in contravention of European practice and legislation in the European Union, and this is particularly stated in the presentation of the law itself. There are cases where Member States, even within the European Union at the borders of two Member States, specifically the Czech Republic and Germany, Austria and Germany, lower the tax base at the expense of the neighbourhood with the judge of the European Union. The entire area along the Slovenian-Croatian border is economically less developed and all border municipalities, with the exception of maybe Pirana and Kopra, belong to the category of less developed and demographically endangered areas. In particular, this is one of the important reasons why companies should be encouraged by such a tax relief to invest in this area and, after all, to establish and register their headquarters in this area and to move their production activities. We find that there are more and more companies running from the outskirts to the centre - not only from the Croatian-Slovenian borders, but also from elsewhere - to Ljubljana, Celje, Kranj and so on, while, in particular, this eastern, south-eastern or southern borders are not attracted. Therefore, we consider it a shame to declare this law inappropriate. We must say that we are likely to open a debate in a short time on the subject of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this is the verification of the effects of the amended legislation on corporate income tax. We believe that the positive effects of this general suspension of investment in the development of the economy should be identified as soon as possible, in particular the negative consequences of this general suspension of investment in the economy, which ultimately brings a new cycle of tax revenues through income due to increased employment, value added tax, due to increased production and transport of products and so on. Therefore, we do not think it is appropriate that this law should be rejected briefly, but that it should be devoted to the substantive debate within the framework of the National Assembly, to determine what it actually means in the State budget to introduce such reliefs, what it would be necessary to correct in the proposed law and what it means to develop this area, which is actually deprived, especially now that we have the Schengen border on it. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced that, given the different willingness of the Government to engage in dialogue and in-depth discussions on the legitimate reasons for adopting amendments to the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, this law could significantly improve in particular in favour of the development of less developed border areas and the preservation of the settlement of border areas of Slovenia. The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax and we will therefore vote against the proposal for a decision by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Friday has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u38	Good-bye! President, Mr Lavric, colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that the resolution of the Proposal for a Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons is in the right direction, as this proposal would reduce the differences in economic development and the living opportunities of the population between areas in the country, prevent the emergence of new areas with major development problems, encourage the development and competitiveness of the economy in all developing regions, taking into account their specificities and increase the well-being of the population in certain permanently neglected areas. Taking into account the principles of sustainable development and their specificities, additional relief is proposed for the 10km border band on the border of the Republic of Slovenia with the Republic of Croatia, so that the debtor in the municipalities at the so-called Schengen border may apply a reduction in the tax base, which is also applicable to the debtors established in that area operating outside the area. The proposed facilitation can be introduced with the confirmation of the European Commission. Similar reliefs, as proposed by the Council of State, already have Portugal, Italy, Austria, Finland, Germany, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, as opposed to a colleague from the SDS, we claim that this is a practice in Europe. We believe that the Government and this coalition should have an interest in implementing such a relief. The reduction in the rate in the 10km border band in the Republic of Croatia by 15% tax rate on the income of legal persons constitutes tax competition with corporate income tax, as in Croatia there is a 20% tax rate. This might encourage the establishment of Croatian companies in Slovenia. For this reason, Slovenia would also have higher tax revenues in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to effectively reduce regional development differences, greater financial incentives need to be channelled into development areas and the financing and taxation system must also take account of the different circumstances and allow comparable development of municipalities in all parts of Slovenia to be discussed after a certain period. Both the EU and Slovenia have declared their commitment to the principles and objectives of cohesion policy or more coherent regional development, and efforts to revive the most backward and critical regions of Slovenia are so much more justified. This proposal would in fact make it possible to reduce regional development differences as it would allow for the promotion of domestic and foreign investment and the establishment of companies that would also employ the local population and thereby reduce unemployment in Slovenia. It is true that the Government has already introduced a regional development relief which we will only start to apply since 2008 - we know that the law was passed in October 2006 - but this regional relief is only narrowly defined for research and development and can only be used by a small proportion of companies in Slovenia. In order to promote domestic and foreign investment, it is more necessary than regional facilitation to reduce the nominal tax rate on corporate income. Reducing the tax rate from 20% to 15% in this area would mean that this could encourage greenfield investments that would create new jobs and more taxes and contributions to the country. Regrettably, the coalition on the Finance Committee, as a disciplined army, decided that the law was not suitable for further consideration. However, we will oppose this decision and vote against the decision of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u40	Mr President, the representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The New Slovenia Group will support the decision of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy that the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons is not suitable for further consideration. We base our position on the following arguments. The proposed amendment of the law could, however, be agreed that tax policy is the one that can affect more coherent regional development. However, this must take into account the interests of the whole country and not only the narrow area at the Croatian border. We believe that a number of areas have been less developed in Slovenia for various reasons, which would also need development assistance. In the New Slovenia Group, we are also convinced that aid in such a form has very little possibility of verification in the European Commission because it would most likely be treated as State aid which allows individual entities a privileged position. The law currently in force regulates a general tax relief for research and development of 20% and is well established and gives good initial results. It is also important that the European Commission has granted additional research and development allowances to those economic operators that are established and invested in less developed areas, an additional 10% for those with a level of development between 85 and 100% of the country's average and even 20% for those with a level of development below 85% of the country's average. In the New Slovenia Group, we are also of the opinion that the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons is a new law that lowers the taxation of the income of legal persons from year to year and gives the law additional relief to less developed areas and that it is necessary to wait first for the results of the existing law and only later to consider other measures. In New Slovenia, we are also convinced that the provinces will play an important role in coherent regional development, of course if they are established, and that this is also one of the reasons why the proposed amendment of the law is not supported. We agree with those who believe that in the future, as long as we consider additional reliefs for less developed areas, we will develop criteria that will cover individual areas within future regions. In Slovenia we will have relatively small landscapes, yet within them the development will be very different. In the New Slovenia Group, we are also convinced that any changes to the law, which brings tax reliefs, need to take into account the interests and development of the whole country. As we have already said in the introduction, in the New Slovenia Group we will support the proposal of the mother labour body that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on corporate income tax is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u42	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The Law on corporate income tax was adopted one year ago, together with the rest of the tax legislation. The proposed amendment of the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons was proposed by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we must say that we agree with the objectives set out in the introductory explanation of the proposal or the amendment of the law. It is the Slovenian People's Party that has been stressing the importance of equal development of Slovenia and measures to promote development in more backward areas. The latter, together with measures to invest in research and development, led us to confirm the law on corporate income tax adopted last year. Despite the good aims of the bill, there are a number of concerns which also make the mother labour, namely the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, decide that the proposed amendment of the law is not suitable for further consideration. It seems to us that the key data of the Government, which, based on empirical research and relevant statistical methods in the past, shows that investment tax relief does not affect the larger or additional volume of total investment. Tax incentives, for example, increase investment by less than a reduction in tax return due to incentives. This is, of course, an argument which in itself raises the question of the purpose of adopting the proposed solutions. At the same time, the law in force without restrictions on individual parts of Slovenia offers, among other things, incentives for investing in research and development and for carrying out practical work in the framework of vocational education. We believe that the existing options guarantee a full increase in the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Certain issues are also raised in terms of the admissibility of the proposed solutions, as this is a type of state aid that is subject to strict European legislation. Since solutions are not appropriate, we cannot support them. With regard to the proposal, the question arises in particular how the 10-kilometre belt was established at the Croatian border. From a legislative point of view, it seems to us that this definition of an endangered area, a less developed area, is all the more appropriate. In Slovenia we have many undeveloped areas, and these certainly cannot be determined by certain bands in units of measurement. We have less developed congregations and regions, and in our opinion the rounded areas are much more suitable for considering such and different reliefs. At the time of consideration of this law, we must remind ourselves once again that provincial legislation is also being prepared. Undoubtedly, the establishment of municipalities helped to improve the development of Slovenia. In the SLS Group as advocates of local self-government, we stress that it is necessary to speed up the establishment of provinces that can contribute further to the more equitable development of Slovenia in the framework of their powers. Of course, the adoption of provincial legislation will require more attention to their content and competences than to the prestigious issue of landscape seats. In the Slovenian People's Party, on the basis of all the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation from the Income of Legal Persons, we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the laws on administrative fees within the framework of the procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Mr. Mag. Signa Lavrich, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u44	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative fees. By means of the proposed law, these amendments and additions do not prejudice the basic principles and objectives of the basic law, but the Government only wanted to further increase the clarity and transparency of this regulation. The main objectives of the bill are: to abolish administrative stakes as a means of payment for administrative fees, to further determine the amount of administrative fees in euro and no longer in points, to propose new general exemptions or to abolish or reduce certain fees. It is also followed by the harmonisation of the recovery procedure with the Tax Procedure Act and the amendment of the substantive legislation that introduces new administrative fees and thus achieves compliance with the legislation already in force. Just a few more details from the proposed law. As I have already mentioned, certain administrative fees are being abolished, these are certificates from official records, permits to carry out transport in internal, inter-territorial and suburban transport and, for example, the notification of a contract for the management of special line services. The bill also introduces an exemption from administrative fees in several areas, for example for all documents and actions relating to the replacement of public documents and the cancellation of a vehicle from transport, in the event of a natural accident, then for the exemption of administrative fees for contracting entities under both public procurement laws, with regard to the acquisition of data from official records, then for documents and acts relating to the authorisation of the status of society in the public interest, as well as the establishment of a foundation or institution under the law governing the institutions. Then for all acts related to access to public information, for certificates in official records, including for documents and actions relating to annual reimbursements for use of roads, as most of this application is only submitted by persons with disabilities, and for the replacement of documents in the event of a change in the address which was created, for example, due to the renaming of streets. In the end, an exemption shall also be introduced for documents and acts relating to the conclusion of a marriage or the official act of registration of the same-sex partnership. The bill also reduces certain administrative fees, for example if you extend your online marketing authorisation. We also have a case where administrative fees are rising, which is the issue of a ID card and passport. New administrative fees shall also be introduced, namely the retention permit for the law on foreigners, then for the award of a concession for the intervention of work and employment, and also for documents relating to the safety and traffic of public roads and to certain documents issued by the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. So briefly on this bill. In the light of what the Government has said, it is proposing to the National Assembly that this proposal be adopted by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u46	Thank you very much again for your word. Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! At its 34th meeting, on 29.11.2007, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Fees submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for its consideration and adoption. We have received comments from the Legislative and Legal Service on the provisions of Articles 17 and 18 and heading 37. In the course of the business period, we received amendments from the coalition's parliamentary groups to Articles 11, 13, 17, 18 and 19 and headings 23 and 37. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the amendments of the parliamentary groups took stock of the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service, but it was said that they were not entirely appropriate amendments to Articles 11, 17 and 19. Therefore, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government has adopted and adopted an additional amendment to the amendments of the coalition groups to Articles 17 and 19. The Committee then voted, in accordance with Rule 131 of its Rules of Procedure, on the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and adopted the amendments to Articles 11, 17, 18 and 19. However, he did not accept the amendment to Article 13, because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service do not consider it necessary. In the light of the amendments adopted, a supplementary draft law has been drawn up on the basis of Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure, for which the Committee proposes to be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rudi Veršnik has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u48	Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Fees is one of those which removes administrative obstacles and simplifies and updates the payment of administrative fees to citizens and citizens. I'm sure you'll remember how the officials sent us to the reception office, first even the nearest meeting, and later to the reception office. From now on, the payment of administrative fees with administrative hips is abolished and replaced by modern payment funds. The legislative procedure is the 1999 law, where the fees were set out in points, and now the obligations are set out in our and the European currency, the euro. It is also possible to compare very easily with taxes in other European countries. The draft law also incorporates some solutions that are the result of the implementation of the current system and comments and proposals made by the public and by the taxpayers. The proposed amendments and additions to the draft law do not prejudice the basic principles and objectives of the basic law, but further enhance the clarity and transparency of the legislation and bring it into line with other substantive legislation. As is said to be an essential systemic novelty that fees are set in euros, in absolute amounts, so that the taxpayer can directly understand his obligation. Nor does the bill provide for indexing of fees, which means that such services will not be subject to constant changes. The abolition of hips is also the result of an amendment to Article 29 of the existing law, which provided for the allocation of the funds of the fees received between the national and municipal budgets. The proposal for a law in Article 10 also provides for the exemption of administrative fees for documents and acts relating to the approval of the status of society in the public interest and for documents and acts of establishment of a foundation under the law governing those institutions. In the new draft law, the exemption also applied to the application and the right of an individual to be informed of his or her personal data and of actions relating to the annual reports on the use of roads in the payment of the applicable administrative fee. In most cases, it is an exemption made by persons with disabilities. The draft law states in the transitional provisions the abolition of such tariffs governing the issuance of visas after entry into the Schengen acquis. The proposal to amend the Law on Administrative Fees is followed by an annex to the tariffs, which is also amended in accordance with the amendments to the law itself. The bill on administrative fees is updated and, above all, more transparent and friendly to citizens and citizens, and we will support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Milan Cvikl on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u50	Mr. Chairman, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will not oppose the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Fees. We estimate that now that Slovenia has taken over the euro, it is also time to say good-bye in some way from hips to paper and move on to more modern administrative operations also in the case of administrative fees. We estimate that the objectives and principles of the law follow the basic guidelines of the basic law, and therefore we estimate that its changes are in favour of the law, in particular as an administrative facilitation of both work for state and municipal authorities, and therefore we will not oppose the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Friday has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u52	Thank you, Vice President. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia supports the basic objective of the bill so that the abolition of administrative stakes as a means of payment of administrative fees can be achieved by removing administrative barriers. The proposal has been adopted in accordance with the 2007 Programme of Action to Eliminate Administrative Obstacles, and we attach this to it. The LDS also supports the introduction of an exemption for administrative fees for documents and actions relating to the approval of the status of the public interest society and for acts relating to the establishment of a foundation or establishment. We also support the introduction of an exemption on certificates from official records for documents and acts relating to the representation and reuse of information of a public nature. It also makes sense to provide for exemptions for the payment of fees for the replacement of a passport, passport, passport and transport licence, driving licence, driver’s license, driver’s license, driver’s license and driver’s license, in the event of a change of title resulting from a change in the title due to the introduction of a street system or street name. The most important exemption in this law is an exemption for cases of natural disasters where an exemption for administrative fees is provided for in relation to the exchange of documents damaged or destroyed in a natural accident and for the cancellation of vehicles damaged or destroyed in a natural accident. It also makes sense to add the power of the Government to provide for an exemption or a reduction in fees in the event of natural disasters by a decision. For this reason, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we welcome the determination that after a new amount of fees are fixed in euros and not more in points, the amount of fees is set in absolute amount, which is indisputably more favourable to the consumer, as this can be understood directly from such tariff. For all of this, the LDS will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on administrative fees. Unfortunately, however, we believe that the Government should also reduce the level of legal fees in 2007. The amendments to the law approved by the National Assembly at the end of January have also doubled certain fees, although the Government has made a commitment, with a view to ensuring the neutrality of the transition to the euro, not to increase the monetary amounts set out in the regulations and other legal acts adopted or proposed or to which name influences in accordance with its competences, and to impose on all ministries, bodies of composition, government services and administrative units that they respect this commitment until the end of the period of transition to the euro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Vice-President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Act. We will support it in particular because of the objectives pursued by the amendment of the law. The bill does not depart from the basic principles already laid down by the basic law. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the most important amendment to the bill is the determination of administrative fees in euros and not in points as in the law in force. The amount of the fee is set in an absolute amount, which is more user-friendly and will in any case be a clear obligation of the user. The possibility of changing the level of administrative fees in line with price increases is also mentioned. In the light of the 2007 government programme, which provides for the abolition of administrative hips as a means of payment of an administrative fee in order to ensure that the taxpayer receives new, more modern, more practical and simpler payment methods. The law contains exemptions for administrative fees for documents relating to the granting of company status in the public interest. The amendment to Article 28 of the Law removes ambiguities regarding the payment of a fee for acts before the customs authorities. Exemptions for documents and actions relating to the use and access to and reuse of information of a public nature shall also be introduced. During this year, decision-making procedures for annual road use refunds have been transferred to administrative units. We agree that all procedures and actions relating to annual reimbursements for the use of roads are exempt from fees. These are mainly applications submitted by persons with disabilities for the exemption of payment. In some cases, citizens wish to obtain travel documents in a very short period due to leave abroad or for any other reason. Administrative units cannot treat such needs as necessary, but as negligence, so it is logical that often higher costs also result in higher fees. However, fees for the registration of same-sex partnerships and also for marriage are being abolished, which we believe is good. However, we do not expect this tax to increase the number of marriages. In the New Slovenia Group we are pleased with the effective work of the public administration. Slovenia received recognition at the conference on eGovernment in Lisbon for its successful work, as the European Commission's measurements showed that Slovenia had risen from 7th to 2nd place. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the bill is a good one, so we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The bill provides for administrative burdens and facilitations in the payment of administrative fees. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party have already supported many proposals for laws that have gone in this direction. We are aware that the only simplifications in the public administration can contribute to more ongoing and quality processes that would contribute to all the faster services we want. The bill under consideration provides for positive changes in the payment of administrative fees, provides for the abolition of administrative stakes as a means of payment of administrative fees and determines the amount of administrative fees from euro and not more from points such as before. This eliminates the confusion in the payment of fees, since the amount of fees is now set in absolute terms and the payer knows exactly how much he has to pay due to the greater transparency of the tariff. Moreover, it would no longer be possible for the level of administrative fees to change by increasing prices. Thus, the changes point towards a more modern and more effective public administration. According to the new undertaking, administrative fees would be exempt in many cases from the establishment of companies acting in the public interest in relation to certain tariff numbers for the replacement of a ID card, passport, transport licence and the like. In cases of online renewal of a marketing authorisation, only half the fee shall be paid as proposed by law. The e-government is increasingly widespread and popular among citizens. It saves us a lot of time and worry, since we can now do almost all the administrative matters that we have been waiting for in the long lines of administrative units, now from home, in extremely fast and simple procedures. We agree that it is necessary to encourage citizens to use the national eGovernment portal, which has a positive impact on everyone, relieves public administration and generally respects the valuable time for the users of these services. As already mentioned, in our view, the bill goes in the right direction and foresees good solutions that could substantially help a more efficient and user-friendly administration. It also foresees positive consequences for both public administration and its users. We will support the bill in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will vote on the amended draft law in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the votes, after an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2006. The proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Please, Mr. Mag. Lavrich, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! In accordance with Article 97 of the Public Finance Act, the Ministry of Finance prepared a proposal for the final accounts of the State budget for 2006 and submitted it to the Court of Auditors within the time limit. The final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 shall consist of a general and specific part. The general part gives a more detailed overview of the planned and realised revenue and expenditure or revenue and expenditure from the balance of revenue and expenditure, the accounts of financial claims and investments and the financing account. However, in the specific part, a presentation of the planned and realised expenditure and other expenditure of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006. The budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 was adopted in 2005. The planned macroeconomic developments were less favourable at the time the budget was adopted than they were actually realized. 4% of gross domestic product growth was planned and 5.2% growth was actually realized in 2006. The increase in exports of goods and services was planned to 7.8% and 10% were realised. The inflation rate was the same as planned, which is 2.5%. In 2006, 100.9% of planned budget revenues and 98.4% of planned budget expenditure were realised and only 54.8% of the planned deficit was budgeted. So the deficit of 45 billion 819 million was 235 thousand Slovenian tolars less than originally foreseen. In the financial claims and investments account, revenue was realised at 133% of the budget adopted and expenditure was realised at 95.8% of the budget adopted. The amount of the debt established by the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 and 2007 amounted to 359 billion 980 million 578 thousand Slovenian Tolars for 2006. The government owed 335 billion 670 million 477 thousand Slovenian Tolars in debt and budget deficit for financing, while at the same time paying off a debt of 256 billion 790 million 212 thousand Slovenian Tolars. The Court of Auditors submitted an audit report on the proposal for a final account for 2006 and an opinion with reservation for the correct implementation of the budget as a whole, as well as an opinion with reservation. One ministry was given a positive opinion for the correct implementation of the financial plans and 14 ministries with reservations. However, the general conclusion was that the situation had improved compared to last year and we will do our utmost to address the irregularities identified by the 2006 audit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The proposal for a final account was considered by the Commission for the supervision of public finances as the parent working body. I give the floor to the President, Mr Milan Petk, to present the report of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u60	Thank you, Vice President. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State, to the colleagues from the Ministry, to all of us, who, at least in my opinion, should be more than one of us, given the importance of the topic that we are addressing today and so far. I'm moving on to the commission's report. The report to the Proposal for a Final Account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year referred to in Article 97, paragraph 4, of the Public Finance Act has been examined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of Articles 39, 42 and 168 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The meeting was held in two parts. At the first part of the 7.11.2007 meeting, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, as today, presented the basic data on the macroeconomic development of the country and the final account for 2006, and found that the Court of Auditors had submitted the Audit Report on the Final Account Proposal for 2006 and had delivered an opinion with reservation. That, for the correct implementation of the budget as a whole, it has thus delivered an opinion with reservation. For the correct implementation of the financial plans, a positive opinion was expressed to one ministry and 14 with reservations. He also stressed today that the general conclusion that the situation had improved compared to the previous year, 2005 was that the situation had improved. The representative of the Court of Auditors explained in his presentation that the performance audits were carried out for three ministries: the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. All three have been assessed as less successful. Response reports were requested from seven ministries. The deadline for their submission has expired. They've been received from all the ministries. Except for the Ministry of Health, which has been set an additional 15-day deadline under the law. We hope that this response report has already been transmitted. He noted that some over 94% of the overall budget had been submitted in the audit and stressed in his report some of the specific findings of the audit. In the debate, the following proposals or questions were raised by Members, members of the Commission: Why is the balance sheet still not an integral part of the final budget account? Why does the coverage of expenditure on European agricultural policy revenue per year deteriorate? Why is it that investment, especially for those run by the Ministry of Health, is similar in some other cases, that construction works are carried out before contracts are concluded? Why, in practice, do they accept annexes to contracts that exceed 50% of the basic contract in total, which requires a rebalancing, a change in the investment programme and a decision-making process in the National Assembly, and that is not done? Why was the State in charge in 2006 of more than what was necessary in terms of revenues? How was the settlement between the Ministry of Culture and the Archbishop of Maribor made due to the inability to use real estate? Whether or not MFERC has been hacked into [[?]] ? Why is wage growth in all ministries over 100% and the highest transport ministry over 108%? Why has the Administration of Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions been exposed to so much overtime in some bodies? Why was the three institutions in the field of culture, the National Museum, Cankarjev dom, the Slovenian Cinematheque, given more resources than they were determined by decisions? Is it not possible to prevent such matters? Do they also appear in other ministries? Are the goods credit issues leased by the former Center of the Government for Informatics now settled? Do they appear anywhere else? Why do ministries that allocate funds to indirect budget users still fail to comply with Article 27 of the Budget Implementation Act, which says that actual costs should be paid? Will the government switch to an invoicing system instead of a cash flow system? This would take away some of the problems arising from the accounting system and reminds the Court of Auditors. Will the Government correct the budget lines in accordance with the Court of Auditors’ audit opinion? The debate on this issue was broader, the representatives of the Government, the Court of Auditors at the time did not find a common language. Therefore, the meeting continued, in the second part of the meeting, i.e. further on 29.11. and Members wanted to know whether there might have been an agreement between the Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Finance regarding the possibility of amending the accounts of the final budget for 2006. As progress has not been made, the members of the Commission have accepted the findings and conclusions of their competence. They're on your desk. They voted on the decision to propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006. The Commission did not adopt a proposal for the supervision of public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rudi Veršnik has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to the representatives of the government, nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues. The final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 is a document demonstrating the realisation of the first state budget, which was fully planned and implemented by the current Government. Total revenue was achieved by 100.9 and expenditure by 98.4%. As a result, the actual budget deficit was almost 45% lower than planned and also nominally lower than the 2005 deficit by 39%. The 2006 government budget deficit, measured as a proportion of GDP, amounted to 0.8% of GDP in 2006. While there were 1.3% of GDP in 2005. At the end of 2006, the overall public debt of the state budget fell from 25.5% of GDP in 2005 to 24.7 in 2006. An overview of the implementation of the individual types of revenue and expenditure of the State budget for 2006 also shows that the ministries have implemented certain parts of the budget or their financial resources within the expected framework set by the National Assembly. In the context of total budget revenues reached at a level of good 100%, tax revenues were higher by 4% than planned. This is mainly due to the higher tax paid on the profits of companies. The profit tax was collected in 2006 more than was planned due to higher economic growth than we could have expected in the course of the 2006 budget debate. Economic companies made more profits and consequently paid more profit tax. Total revenue from the 2005 budget increased by 15% in 2006. The Court of Auditors found that, compared to previous years, it was noted that a reduction in the time delay was observed in the preparation of claims for reimbursements sent by budget institutions to the paying authority. Compared to 2005, there has also been a significant increase in the resources received for cohesion policy, which finance the development of transport infrastructure and major environmental projects. Major growth compared to 2005 was also evident in the consideration of funds for the implementation of the internal policy, but only 27% of the planned funding was achieved in 2006. Of this, 89.5% referred to the Schengen border, was recorded by the Court of Auditors. Progress has been made in the use of European funds in 2006 and needs to be increased every day. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we hope to see the end of 2007. Otherwise, the ministries responsible for 2008 will have to take additional measures to make more rapid and efficient use of European funds. During the 2006 total expenditure, current expenditure was reached at 99.7%. Within them, there was a little more to be saved from expenditure on goods and services achieved at 96.9%. Actual wage expenditure was projected to exceed 1.6%, mainly due to a lack of detailed planning, an increase in wages for employees' advancements. Therefore, this error will certainly need to be addressed by the executive authority in the future with more attention. Current transfers were estimated to have reached almost 100% or only 0.4% less than planned. While investment transfers were achieved with a 100.7 index. The investment expenditure of direct budgetary users was achieved by a lower rate, index 83 in particular due to delays in the payment of expenditure for the establishment of a southern or so-called Schengen border. Therefore, they also had to be transferred to the 2007 budget. On the Commission for the supervision of public finances, the opposition Members unwarrantedly challenged these relatively good achievements in the implementation of the 2006 State budget. Some have disturbed the under-achieved expenditure for investment expenditure of certain budgetary users. This should be one of the reasons for their 'no' forecast in the adoption or validation of the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006. It must therefore be said that the implementation of the 2004 state budget has been much worse. Investment expenditure was planned to reach 75% and investment transfers to 79.4%. The realisation of investment expenditure was poor even between 2001 and 2003. At the conclusion of this general presentation of the implementation of the 2006 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, it should also be recalled that only the well-executed budgetary policy of this Government for 2006 could lead to the final establishment of the conditions for taking over the euro per day, 1.1.2007. Findings of the Court of Auditors on the final accounts for 2006. The regularity of the implementation of the budget for 2006 was verified by the Court of Auditors and made its findings in the audit report. It verified the implementation of the budget of all 15 individual ministries and the country's budget as a whole. The Court of Auditors delivered an opinion with reservation on the accounts of the final accounts of the State budget as a whole for 2006. It also expressed its opinion with reservation for compliance with the rules or for the correct implementation of the country's budget as a whole. For the proper implementation of the budget of individual ministries, the Court of Auditors delivered a favourable opinion to one ministry and a reasoned opinion to 14 ministries. The Court of Auditors has given the Government an opinion on the implementation of the budget as a whole, subject to a summary of individual opinions made by the ministries. The majority audit opinion, the opinion with reservation, means that ministries have implemented the State budget in accordance with the rules or in all relevant respects in accordance with the chosen threshold of importance of enforcement. Except in those cases which have been identified by the Court of Auditors as incorrect. In the audit reports, the Court of Auditors shall not disclose how it determines or measures qualitative and quantitative factors in accordance with the rules. We just have to trust him to have the same vat at all times and with all the revisions. Let us recall that the ministries under the former government received six negative opinions, one positive opinion and 10 with reservations for 2004. This does not, of course, mean that we can be satisfied with the state of compliance with the rules governing the functioning of the state sector. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we hope that the ministries will carefully examine and strengthen the internal control system of the laws and regulations of 2006. In particular in the field of public procurement, the implementation of contracts with external contractors of major projects, in particular in the construction of transport infrastructure and health facilities and in the field of the use of European funds. And why did the government get an opinion with reservations about the financial statements as a whole? More specifically to the statement of revenue and expenditure, which represents the final account of the State budget. The opinion with reservation was allocated, as a whole, to the so-called general part of the budget due to three errors in the bookkeeping of business events caused by high government officials due to inconsistent compliance with accounting rules. The Court of Auditors has demonstrated these errors in its audit report. As a result, the audit recommendations did not require a correction of the draft budget submitted. For the first time in 12 years, the Public Finance Supervisory Board raised the question whether the Ministry of Finance should correct or not these errors in the final accounts documents adopted by the National Assembly. The responsible state officials argued that this could no longer be done technically in the final accounts for 2006. In the oral debate, the Court of Auditors considered that corrections should be made. At the same time, however, it found that it was not aware of the practice of this type of operation and regulation in other supreme audit institutions. After the suspension of the Commission's public financial supervision session, the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors agreed that the problems of the implementation of the financial corrections would be resolved until the future closing account. The overall impact of the errors for which the Court of Auditors concluded that the expenditure shown in the 2006 Draft Budget should be increased is slightly less than 0.5% of the total expenditure of the 2006 State budget. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that this professional issue should have been resolved long after the 12 years of operation of the Court of Auditors. We believe that it is inappropriate for the professional issue of accounting for business income to be passed on to the National Assembly. This question can also be asked in another light or as follows: What would our esteemed colleague Milan M. Cwickl discuss if the responsible state officials were to solve the issue that each accountant should be able to solve, and at least the accountant of a large company? In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support the reports received by the Commission for the supervision of public finances at the time of the final accounts for 2006 in order to introduce accounting in the public and public sectors as soon as possible on the basis of the occurrence of an event or the occurrence of an obligation. However, the current legal accounting system in 1999 does not provide all the necessary data and information on the basis of cash flows. It does not allow for transparent disclosure of funds and liabilities to resources. Secondly, it does not allow satisfactory planning and monitoring of the efficiency, efficiency and effectiveness of public funds users and thus the result and objective of the targeted budgetary process. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also proposed the implementation of accounting on the basis of the event and the results of the targeted budget in the coalition contract. Therefore, we are pleased that after three years, the opposition also supports the change of the accounting system. Therefore, we would like to point out that the current accounting regime or the current Accounting Act requires any direct and indirect user of public funds to draw up a balance sheet. We therefore believe that there are no legal obstacles to the fact that the Court of Auditors has for many years not revised the balance sheet of ministries and other direct budgetary users of the state budget. The Court of Auditors revised progress towards the objectives and results of the targeted budgetary process for 2006 as a third year in a row. Three ministries: Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and within them in selected sub-programmes. His findings are not encouraging. Experts who know comparative arrangements and good practice note that the 1999 Public Finance Act in force is not a suitable and sufficient basis to successfully implement targeted budget planning in Slovenia. I believe that in 2008 it would be the right time to amend and supplement the Law on Public Finance for the first time, the second time the Law on Accounting and the third time the Law on the Court of Auditors, since their content should take into account, above all, the professional and good practice of developing countries more than our own. There should be no room for policy in this legislation. We will support the proposed draft budget in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Milan Cvikl on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The Social Democracy Group will not support the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006. Because we believe that it is not right that the Government has not fixed the final account of the Republic of Slovenia despite the calls. It's a matter of principle. Since we entered the European Union, we have been reporting one number to the European Union and we are receiving other numbers at home in the National Assembly at a poorly convened meeting. The difference in 2005 was EUR 200 million. These differences for 2005 were based on the specifically adopted Debt Takeover Act. The difference for 2006 is about EUR 30 million. That's why we believed that the Minister of Finance would be able to do what every company's management would do. When the auditor submits his opinion and submits proposals for corrections to that opinion, this shall normally be coordinated in the accounting services and in the Assembly of the National Assembly of Management, the Board of Supervisors shall submit the revised balance sheets. We're obviously not ready to accept this. However, I believe it is extremely difficult for the Minister of Finance to accept this. Because for 2005 it would show that it has more than 200 million euros in expenditure. Because for 2006, it would show that it has more than 30 million euros in expenditure and that it should show a much higher expenditure for 2007 than it officially shows. Taking over the debt of Slovenian railways, the inadequate demonstration of funds for municipalities will be topic in 2007. You couldn't do that. It is very interesting that today the Minister of Finance, instead of reporting how 7.6 billion euro of the state budget has been spent, decided to go on a business trip to a neighbouring country where I suppose an explanation of the specificities of Slovenian public finances and how it will reduce inflation. I must say that, in neighbouring Italy, there will be no good learning about this in the light of some of the problems they have in their own public finances. However, it will learn well how public debt increases, given that public debt is over 120% of GDP in neighbouring Italy. And I hope he doesn't come back with the idea of following the politics of the neighbouring country. As far as the reasons are concerned, why we do not support the proposal for a final account. Now, however, on the substantive findings, which are not apparent by the opposition, but are the findings of the highest supreme audit body of the Court of Auditors. First of all, it is appropriate to state that the Court of Auditors must give its opinion with reservation when the balance sheet is not properly displayed. And that the Court of Auditors failed, except for one ministry, to give more positive opinions. However, when we look at the individual types of expenditure - and I think this is an appropriate substantive debate - we see that we have quite a few problems in the 2006 budget. First, the total balance sheet or the total content of the statement for 2006. The 2006 budget is shown in figures and with a relatively lower budget deficit for one very reason. Because there are more corporate income taxes in the €400 million budget than was planned. This made the government relatively simple in 2006. Of course, because of the higher level of corporate income taxes, it is hidden for the first time in 2006, and this continues on the income side in 2007, there is an increasing problem of drawing funds from the European Union. In 2006, only 77.5% of the European Union funds were absorbed by the Government. After the government planned to get them for cca. €410 million has been managed by the government to draw on the total number of fights of €83 billion or around €320.330 million. For 2008, this same government plans, if you will remember, 810 million euros in revenue and for 2007 it is already known that instead of the 650 planned, I apologize, 570 million euros will be spent there somewhere €400.450 million. The problem of drawing on European funds is first seen in the 2006 budget. It continues in 2007 and will be a constant of Slovenian public finances for at least another two years. It is bad that we have in the 2006 budget, because we do not yet respect the principle of invoiced realisation, in fact also some hidden situation, which is said to him that this budget for 2006 is also good because in 2006, after we fixed the euro rate, the government was able to realise the purchase from the business that already took place in 2002, the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. And the funds realised in 2006 have reduced public debt. After an invoiced realization, of course, it would appear that the situation is better in 2002. In 2006, however, we have a worse situation because, together with an increase in public debt, there is a major increase in the indebtedness of the para-State institutions. This is where we focus on Dars. So much for the global picture. So, a global picture - good profit taxes, poor realisation of European funds and long-term realisation of 2002 transactions. It's the expense side, he's crying. There is no doubt that we have quite a number of problems in the correct implementation of the budget and in the individual items. Although it appears that the wages, simply put, have grown slightly or that they have increased low. However, the picture is quite different when we look at relatively high funds for overtime. So in the state administration we have some "restriction of employment", and then through excessive pay to individuals who are either overloaded or simply concentrated on a few people, of course, the problem of negative selection. Second payment. We're talking about payouts for material costs, investment expenditure and so on. We have a continuation of the phenomenon, which I myself call the phenomenon of the Glass Palace. If the President of the Government can order the Minister of Public Administration that, irrespective of the procedures of the National Assembly, it is necessary to change an investment from a kitchen to a Glass Palace, then, of course, it also happens in other ministries. So we have quite a few ministries, such as: Ministry of Finance, Durs, Foreign Affairs, Defence, Justice, Economy, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Transport, Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, Ministry of Labour, Ministry of Public Administration, Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and Ministry of Culture as ministries, which either concluded contracts too late or paid funds past contracts. But if this is allowed by the President of the Government with the business of the Glass Palace, then of course others do. And 2006 is a simple year for which the Court of Auditors finds that an account was paid in February or that an account was paid in February 2006 and a transaction contract was concluded in 2005. This is called unlawfully contrary to the procedure for the implementation of budgetary spending. The Ministry of Health is a particular problem. I'm not surprised they're a criminalist since Friday. That doesn't surprise me! We've been pointing that out for a while. And the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors finds that in some ways it is not known who controls the construction site - contractors or the Ministry of Health. And, of course, there are significant problems when there are additions to contracts which do not have a basis not in Article 130 of the 2006 Rules of Procedure, not in general notices. That is why we have a large increase in the spending of the Ministry of Health's budget fund in 2006. We also have a special situation where real estate is purchased past the purchase and construction plan. For this, he is a very large specialist from the Ministry of Justice, which in just five cases bought real estate and in one case restored business premises. Even though it wasn't planned. How can the Minister of Justice, who is the first minister in this country to respect the rule of law, do so?Oh, my God! We also have trade credits at the Slovenian Directorate for Roads and at the CVI, where the state is in charge of taking on commitments to the budget. It is by taking over - a simplified stated obligation to operators, which is contrary to the Public Finance Act. And the settlement fee. At the end of December 2006, the Ministry of Education and Sport found that it has "more resources". Therefore, the Government decided to agree on compensation for the impossibility of the use of real estate between the Republic of Slovenia and Nadskofi Maribor related to the denationalisation procedure for the school facility. Not only did the government not have this money in its 2006 budget on the correct items, but it took over in December 2006 just before the end of the year at the correspondence meeting, an obligation of 169% that exceeded the available funds in 2007 from the so-called settlements. So it is not only that the government has been unjustifiably settled, according to the opposition. She didn't even have the money for it in the state budget. And the Court of Auditors rightly warns. Public procurement is a constant of problems. We see that these problems also occur in 2006: the Ministry of Finance, DURS, the Ministry of the Interior and so on. Well, the Court of Auditors found a few weeks ago that in all investments, including in the purchase of equipment, we have serious problems with public procurement. That's why I'm saying I'm not surprised they're criminals at the Ministry of Health. Some of you say here that, simply put, we needlessly point out the correctness of the statement of funds. But, you know, if you believe that it is appropriate for the Government to display inappropriate claims on the balance sheet, and this is an example of the so-called sale of claims or transfer of claims between the Government and the Slovenian Compensation Society, then you have to decide what the Government should do. The government has waived the share of the Slovenian compensation company in the General Navigation of Portorož in the nominal value of 142 million tolars. Say and write, a little less than 600,000 euros. At the same time, the Government had this amount recorded in the Ministry of Finance’s business books or the central register of assets worth almost EUR 20 million. Thus, when the government concluded that it was handing over a share worth 142 million tolars. In fact, it is worth 4.9 billion tolars. This is called, if not the other, the deception of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, if ministers don't care what they actually give up. And of course, the difference is €500,000 or €20 million. Especially when it is necessary to show this on the balance sheet. And here to argue, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, that it is not right to show that the transfer of claims amounted to EUR 20 million, even though we report this through ESA 95 to the European Union, is, of course, a nice thing to say, a humiliation of the Slovenian public. Why will we publish a final account in the Official Journal, which does not properly show that the Slovenian Compensation Society has actually received EUR 20 million from the Government by withdrawing its share in the General Navigation of Portorož, transferred to the Slovenian Compensation Society? Mr Pogačnik, Mr Podbečan, went to a press conference a few days ago and said, "We have a plus in our balance sheet. This plus came from a minus in the state budget. And this expenditure, or this transfer of claims, as it is called, must be disclosed in the financial claims and investments account. That's what any normal master does. Therefore, we believe that this should be properly illustrated. A similar story is the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, where over 3 billion payments were made. And a special story is the implementation of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. For several years now, we have a law that says that it is necessary to pay money at the cost actually shown, not after twelve. The government doesn't follow that. Like the Government, allowing the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia to "transfer more resources" in December 2006 due to non-fulfilment, for example, I do not know. As an example, I am transferring more resources to the accounts of the Ministry of Defence offices abroad. For almost 600 000 euros more money is transferred to accounts abroad. Even if that money is not needed. Therefore, a warning from the Court of Auditors. Mr Virant explains that, during this term, the number of employees in public administration has been reduced or he says a little differently. He says, "decreasing the number of employees, except for the military and the police, which is already a big relative matter." But the cost of work is increasing. And even though we have less than 1% when we exclude the military and the police, the reduced number of employees, we see that we have almost 5% higher spending on salaries in 2005, 2006 compared to 2006, that we have an index of even 134, 128 for overtime and other staff costs, index 127 and 113. So, is the government really cheaper for taxpayers? We estimate it's not. For these reasons, we believe that the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia, as submitted to the National Assembly, misrepresents public expenditure in 2006, as is the case with the implementation of the State budget. Therefore, Members of Parliament, a Member of the Commission for the supervision of public finances themselves, Members and Members of the opposition could not support the decision to adopt the Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia's budget. It would be proper for the National Assembly, as a Assembly, to instruct the administration of the "Government of the Republic of Slovenia" to show the Assembly the corrected balance sheets. Only on this basis can the relevant balance sheets be adopted here and also published in the Official Journal. Until the government does, it'll be a fake balance sheet. Someone said today, why do we keep this in mind since 2006? That's what we've been alerting you to in 2005. We will draw attention to this in 2007. And I think it is time for the Minister of Finance at the Ministry of Finance to start respecting the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia as the supreme audit institution, as defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. For these reasons, we will not support the 2006 Final Budget Account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Friday has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u66	Have a nice hello again! At the LDS, I believe, as others, we have examined the proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006, while clearly reviewing the audit report on the draft accounts submitted by the Court of Auditors to the National Assembly. And once again, what we claim throughout the year in all the debates is that, while this practice continues, this year too, last year's budget was mainly pro-cyclical and inflationary. So, not even last year was school big enough to change the course of this year. In a year to come, nothing can be changed. A similar situation has been found all the time in a similar way that the realisation of the funds received from the European Union shows that even in 2006 Slovenia was not very successful in drawing funds from the European Union. Only 77% of the funds foreseen have been exhausted. This practice and this practice and these figures are also similar this year 2007. In the LDS it is noted that the realisation of investment expenditure was only 87% and that investment transfers were made at 90% of the planned funds. Is not the index itself at this level sufficient reason that there is serious doubt that it is planned inappropriately, improperly and that it is carried out over the planned? The audit report on the Draft Final Account 2006 shows that the Court of Auditors delivered its opinion with reservation. For the correct implementation of the budget as a whole, it also gave an opinion with reservation. For the proper implementation of the financial plans of individual ministries, 14 received an opinion with reservation and only one, the Ministry of Education, deserved a positive assessment. In addition, in the LDS, we doubt that it is justified. This raises the question: Is it not right for the Government to set an example in the respect and implementation of laws, especially because it itself proposes to Parliament the majority of laws that should be respected by itself and its ministries? Obviously, however, the government decides to do things at home and to tailor the implementation of the laws, as it currently does. The 2006 audit report of the final budget account shows that there are similar irregularities and inconsistencies in implementation as have already been identified for the 2005 Final Budget Account. For example, the irregularity of the balance of revenue and expenditure, as current investment transfers are wrongly classified. In the financial claims and investments account, for example, the transfer of the capital share of the General Navigation of Portorož is shown between the remuneration of capital shares to an inadequate undervalued value. However, the purchase of capital investments from the increased assets of the Housing Fund is too demonstrated during the expenditure. Let us also mention the behaviour of ministries that are inconsistent with the rules on employment, payout, other personal benefits, in non-compliance with the rules on the award of public contracts, in non-compliance with the rules on the award of low value public contracts and in non-compliance with the rules on the award of transfers. Inadequately or for too long, all details should be provided. This is why we find these general findings. In doing so, we should specifically point out the Court of Auditors' follow-up finding on the correctness of the implementation of the Ministry of Health's 2006 financial plan. When reviewing the documentation on the implementation of works in individual construction sites where construction works are carried out mainly by Slovenian construction giant SCT, it is found that the contractor performs works without the conclusion of a contract or additions to the contract. This means that there is no legal basis for the implementation of these works, in violation of Article 130 of the 2006 Regulation, which provides that direct users must conclude a contract before the service or delivery of the goods is commenced. It happens that performers work on their own and eventually force and force the Ministry to conclude an annex with them for the work already done. In this case, the contractor performed the following works without a legal basis in 2006 due to the irregularly concluded annexes to the contracts. Benchmarks for clinics, otorinolaryngology and cervix-facial surgery worth 117 million tolars. I am speaking in Tolars, because this is 2006 for the Neurological Clinic of 286 million tolars, for the Cancer Institute of 450 million tolars, for the new Paediatric Clinic of 72 million tolars. We all know what happened next with the Paediatric Clinic and the values are even higher next year. It is no wonder, therefore, that the former Minister of Health, who, according to Prime Minister Janez Janša, acted well, said he. However, these figures show that he did not manage the situation in the implementation of the investments and that he was objectively responsible for the situation. It's also a sad conclusion. One example is that even a lower amount of money will be paid by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the most exposed to the population category, to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We expect the Minister to remedy such irregularities and that the beneficiaries will be paid. We hope that the amount of financial social assistance has already been paid, as is the case with the rules. We also considered from the audit report that the Ministry of Culture did not operate in accordance with the rules in the implementation of the financial plan, as we quote: 'the tender documentation is not prepared so that the tenderers can make appropriate offers on its basis. One criterion was assessed without adequate evidence, the contract was awarded to the tenderer, although it did not provide all the evidence to meet the conditions. In the public publication of the invitation to tender, it did not specify the conditions for the recognition of the capacity and the evidence of economic and financial capacity. As the criterion for selecting the most economically advantageous tender, the criterion for the financial situation of the tenderer was laid down. It has paid more than the amount provided for in the Decisions. It financed public institutions and public funds, although their work programmes and financial plans were not endorsed by the Council of Institutions. It has earmarked funds in a higher amount than was planned in the 2006 development programme plan. The report or the final proposal of the expert commission did not contain any explanation of the substantive reasons for the proposed approval of the programme. Public institutions and public funds were financed in contravention of the required methodology. Payments were carried out only when there were major changes in the coefficients. Similar irregularities have also occurred on the part of other ministries. However, their orientation would take too long, and it is not meaningful to do so today. The following is mentioned only for the most exposed. The Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, which should in fact be an example of compliance with the legal provisions, the pattern of conduct also in the implementation of its programmes, bought real estate in five cases in 2006 and in one case restored the premises, despite the fact that in its financial plan and procurement plan and the construction of these purchases or renovations, it had neither planned nor planned. Therefore, the documents we read and accepted in the state budget did not have the above-mentioned purchases and constructions. Together, it's not a small amount. It is a violation of the laws of 3.10 billion tolars or 23 million euros. Is not €23 million of violations at the Ministry of Justice sufficiently characteristic of the conduct of an authority that, as I said, should be an example? Or the conduct of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Education, which did not include in the annual programme for the sale of state tangible property, i.e. compensation to the Nadskofi Maribor. This literally violated article 80 of the Law on Public Finance, since in the form of compensation to the archdiocese they gave up their property in Krčevina near Maribor. In this case, the Government and the Ministry also violated Article 21 of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget for 2006 and 2007, which provides that in 2006 the direct user may assume an obligation to provide funds in 2007 up to 60% of the spending rights in subgroups of accounts for 2007. Therefore, only 60% of the planned funds in this account are allowed to be over-exploited for the following year. No, the Ministry has afforded this investment, or this compensation, with no prior appropriate decision to exceed 169% of that limit. And what does Minister Bajuk say about all this? In both cases, nothing. A procedure shall be carried out. Indemnities and property are sold. Investments, assets, real estate are bought. The facilities are being restored, and the Ministry of Finance is either blind or blind to the truth. That's the fact. This is one of the reasons why we assess that such a final account cannot be supported. Nevertheless, we hope that the Government will take into account the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, as well as the Commission for the supervision of public finances, and implement budgets more transparently, even though there is little time left for it, a year and no more. We hope that these rascals and such practices will end. In 2007, of course, we will be able to determine whether these wishes are at least partially realized. We hope that in the end we will be able to find that these appeals have fallen to fertile ground. The Government should also be more careful when implementing the budget in order to ensure that there is no recurrence of error in the salaries and distribution of workers, in public procurement, in the implementation of contractual relations with contractors or suppliers. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support the conclusions of the Commission, which proposes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare amendments to the regulations by which we will gradually move from the system of paid realization to the system of invoicing the realization. We also support the Commission's proposal to prepare, as soon as possible, amendments to the rules to ensure that the balance sheet becomes an integral part of the final budget account adopted by the National Assembly. We also agree with the Commission's proposal to the Government to make it clear when preparing amendments to the Public Finance Act that the accounts of the Final Account of the Budget should be corrected after the audit has been carried out in accordance with the audit findings of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia and should be submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for admission. What would happen in the business world if management did not take into account the requirements of the Governing Council, the Supervisory Committee, or the congregation? In such a case, the management would say good-bye. In our case, matters are not sanctioned. The government is not saying good-bye. Neither the Minister of Finance nor the ministers of individual ministries who have violated the laws, regulations and laws in these areas shall be said. Infringements of legislation in many cases of non-rational and non-professional use of funds, many illustrative cases described in the Court of Auditors report, and a particularly uncorrected final account that does not comply with the findings, findings and requirements of the audit authority. As a result, it does not show the correct balance of revenue and expenditure. Therefore, the second balance sheet is the reason why Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will not vote in favour of the 2006 Final Budget Account.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u68	Once again a nice greeting, Mr. Chairman. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members. The New Slovenia Group in the field of public finances in particular underlines consistent compliance with the legislation, since this is the only way to ensure that adequate transparency and accountability and efficiency are achieved in the management and use of public funds. In the New Slovenia Group, we are pleased to note that the budget was effectively spent in 2006. This is also illustrated by the macroeconomic results that are in all areas above what is expected or planned. 5.2% of economic growth was achieved, which is 1.2% higher than planned. Exports increased, instead of an estimated 7.8%, by a total of 10%. Investments in fixed assets increased by 11.9%, compared with 4.5% planned for 2005. In 2006 we also reached the lowest, that is 2.5% inflation, in the history of our country. However, according to the planned budget deficit, it almost halved. It is also important that employment has also increased in 2006 and that accelerated employment trends continue. In Novi Slovenija, we are particularly proud of the positive achievements in the field of fertility, which have increased in 2005 and 2006, after the trend has turned up, and this is undoubtedly due to a changed or more effective family policy, which is reflected also through the budget. In 2006, with high economic growth as one of the key objectives, we also pursued the fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria for taking over the euro in 2007, which we have fully succeeded. In accordance with the Court of Auditors Act as of each year, the Court of Auditors verified the correct implementation of the State budget for 2006. Even though the results are better annually, according to the Court of Auditors, which brings joy, we cannot be entirely satisfied with what has been achieved. For the correct implementation of the 2006 budget as a whole, an opinion was reached with reservation. The opinion also received an opinion with reservations on the correct implementation of the financial plans from 14 ministries, with the exception of the Ministry of Education and Sport, which received a positive opinion. The main errors encountered in virtually every audit are related to employment, payout, public procurement, transfer assets and various other errors, which, in our view, are due to different, sometimes objective circumstances. We have often criticised the use of European funds at the Commission's meetings, depending on the results, in a justifiable manner. The final accounts for 2006 have also shown, in the Court of Auditors' view, significant progress in drawing on European funds, as we have absorbed as much as 77.49% of the planned resources, and the revenue above the expenditure is about 15 billion tolars, which we can be satisfied with. There has been much debate on the transition to an invoicing system supported by the Court of Auditors, but there are also many arguments that speak against such a system, in particular with regard to financial discipline, which some discussers believe could deteriorate. By some Members and the Court of Auditors, a request for a correction of the final account appeared on the Commission and additional discussions between the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors concluded that this is not possible for 2006 but that we will try to introduce this practice in the review of the final accounts for 2007. It was also pointed out that some legislation needed to be corrected for such an approach. The Commission adopted 7 conclusions proposed by the Chair for the supervision of public finances. It also adopted 4 decisions proposing to the Government to amend legislation and other regulations, as well as a decision calling on the Court of Auditors to prepare a summary report. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that the Commission does not have legislative powers and in this respect its proposals are questionable. More than that, in the New Slovenia Group, it is surprising that the Commission has not decided to support the 2006 final account, although the results of the 2006 final budget account are excellent, that, thanks to the 2006 macroeconomic results, we have taken over the euro, that no ministry has received a negative opinion, despite the fact that the 2006 final account is even better in the Court of Auditors' opinion than in previous years, despite the fact that they have adopted all the conclusions proposed by the opposition members of the Commission themselves, and despite the fact that they have also adopted all the decisions that the opposition members of the Commission have also proposed. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a final account for 2006 because, in our view, it is good and has also produced very good results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Comrade Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u70	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! The fact is that 2006 was a successful year for Slovenia in a macroeconomic sense. Of course, the financial situation, especially public finances, is not so good that it could not be even better. However, on the basis of some objective criteria and data, it can be found that 2006 has been successful. The first important indicator is economic growth, which was well above planned and was 5.2% and 4% of economic growth was planned. Export growth was also expected and inflation under the expected frameworks. Given that the current Government, which is part of the Slovenian People's Party, is often aware of the waste of state money, it is particularly important to note that the budget deficit has reached only a good half of the planned. Also, when we look at the comparison of other forecasts and realized trends in the basic macroeconomic indicators for 2006, we find a trend in positive trends in almost all indicators. This data therefore shows that the work of the Government was good. However, there is also a need to make clear what is not as positive as the indicators mentioned above. The Court of Auditors has delivered an opinion with reservation to both the entire proposal for the final accounts and the correct implementation of the financial plans of the fourteen ministries. Of course, mere opinion alone does not mean enough. It is also necessary to look at the specific reasons that led to such an opinion and to assess whether the situation in individual ministries has deteriorated in relation to previous years, whether it has remained at the same level or even improved. In order to make public spending more efficient, the budgetary process will need to be further focused on concrete objectives in the future. In this regard, the Court of Auditors still finds a low level of achievement, but the situation is improving at least in some ministries in view of previous years. Among the warnings specifically highlighted by the Court of Auditors in its audit are the irregularities that still occur in public servants, in particular with regard to the fulfilment of the conditions for the occupation of a particular job and salary. Consistency of the legislation in this work is essential, in particular due to equal treatment of all civil servants, which we support in the Slovenian People's Party. The Court of Auditors drew attention to other problems encountered in the implementation of the budget. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the Court's observations should be taken seriously and that any irregularities it identifies should be addressed expeditiously. A serious relationship between the Court of Auditors is also illustrated by the fact that the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors have agreed to try to find solutions that will allow for adjustments to the balance sheets or solutions of the final account or solutions that will determine what to do in such cases in the coming years. We join the Commission's findings on the supervision of public finances, which has identified or summarized what the Court of Auditors has found. We also support the preparation of legislative changes that will allow for a more comprehensive and, above all, more proper implementation of the state budget. We believe, however, that despite the irregularities found, there are no reasons why we would not support the proposed closure account, especially since the Court of Auditors also finds that there is a noticeable trend of improvement in most of the ministries, or in most of the ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik will present the position of the Zares Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. On the basis of the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia forwarded to the National Assembly for its consideration, it can be concluded that both budgetary revenue and budgetary expenditure for 2006 are carried out on the planned scale. The implementation of the budget deficit represents only a good half of the planned, and the debt of the budget is realised in a slightly lower extent than planned at the same time as the repayment of the outstanding debt liabilities. If they assessed the implementation of the 2006 budget only on the basis of the above, the assessment would certainly be positive, but in assessing the adequacy of the implementation of the 2006 State budget, it is also necessary to take into account the audit report of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, which delivered its opinion with reservation both in the proposal for the 2006 State Budget Final Account and on the correctness of the implementation of the budget as a whole. With regard to the correctness of the implementation of the financial plans of individual ministries, only one positive assessment has been made and the Ministry of Education and Sport has been given to the 14th Ministry of Education and an opinion with reservation and the 7th Ministry has been ordered to prepare the response recommendations, which the Ministry of Health has not been able to prepare within the prescribed time limit. In the audit, which covered approximately 94% of the state budget, the Court of Auditors has identified a number of irregularities and shortcomings, some of which I will mention. The problem of the salaries of public servants who were assigned to posts for which they did not meet the conditions laid down or not all the conditions laid down by the current systematisation were published in the public recruitment competition. Payments under the burden of the State budget without checking the legal basis for payments or even without adequate legal basis. Acquisition of financial liabilities not foreseen in the individual financial plan. Disposal of property owned by the Republic of Slovenia without the property being in the decision of sale of real property of the Republic of Slovenia. Acquisition of investment liabilities not subject to contracts or investments exceeded contractual values by more than 50% and contrary to the Public Procurement Act. Unnecessary, though within the authorised global, is the debt of a state budget of 25 to 30 billion tolars. Inadequate financing of certain institutions. Use of illegal commodity credits and more. A particular problem is the correction of the accounts of the final account in accordance with the findings of the Court of Auditors’ audit, which the representatives of the Ministry of Finance claimed could not be resolved under the current legislation, although this problem has been present for a longer period and is illogical and unacceptable in the view of the Member of the European Court of Auditors, but no one, in particular the Government, has proposed appropriate and necessary corrections to the legislation. On the basis of all the above, we will not, and cannot, support the adoption of the final accounts for 2006, or we will support the proposal for a decision of the home working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party on my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u74	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! We have submitted three hours and 35 minutes of time for this item to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. About six times as many as we have reported to the parliamentary groups for a decision on the sale of state, real and financial assets. From this place, I would like to raise a question on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group to the proposer of the said act, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, which has 45 minutes to answer: What happens if the National Assembly does not adopt the said act? Well, Mr. Lavrich, I sincerely hope you answer. What happens if the National Assembly does not accept that act today? I believe that all present Members know that there is something ahead of us today in the debate that has happened since 2006. As long as the National Assembly does not accept this act, nothing happens. The same as will happen if we adopt that act today. In short, 3 hours and 25 minutes, some Members of the parliamentary group will be able to praise the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with a zero result. Or play the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the same result, so nothing. Despite the fact that we have found, even within the framework of the home labour force, that the State of Slovenia’s public finances policy has resulted in the alienation of state assets which have not been introduced under the State, Real and Financial Assets Regulation. Nevertheless, nothing will happen, regardless of today’s decision by the National Assembly. Despite the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with its members, i.e. the Ministry, has assumed obligations outside the legal provisions. Despite this finding, nothing will happen in the light of today's decision and hence the conclusion of this stage of public finances for 2006. Finally, nothing will happen on the basis of the finding of inadequate funding. With this title, I would like the Secretary of State for whom I believe he knows so much Slovenian legislation to define: Is there any legal deformity or a legal void if the National Assembly rejects that act today? Or if he accepts it? In my opinion, and in my behavior, nothing. Therefore, the three hours and 35 minutes of the debate envisaged can only lead to some unjustifiably praising or some justifiablely or unjustifiably playing the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u75	The position of the DeSUS Group is to be presented by Member Vila Rezman, who is not. We have also concluded with this by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the draft act itself. I remind the Government that it can be included in the debate at any time within 45 minutes, as many as they have announced for discussion. You want a word? Questions were asked. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will only answer your question as a representative of the Slovenian National Party. It's true what you pointed out. In fact, the legislation in force does not provide that the final account is not to be accepted. So, yeah, I can say that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u77	So you agree that the whole debate is quite meaningless?Oh, my God! But since we have the Rules of Procedure, the first fellow Member, Aloise Sok, does not have it. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I am joining the Group's position that we will not support the decision to accept the final budget account for 2006, because we believe that it is a mistake and unacceptable that the Government has not been prepared, let us say what to correct the accounts of the final account for 2006. In particular, I would focus on the topic that I have been in the National Assembly since 2005 when we first examined the accounts in this reference for 2003 and later in 2004, and have identified on the basis of the Court's audit report, that it is indeed very difficult to carry out an audit of the soundness and efficiency of public funds management, if the final accounts are not sufficiently clear and also detailed, ultimately, the written results of the planned tasks, it is said that there is no definition of the achievement of the objectives that would have been set at the time of the establishment and adoption of the budget for each financial year. Now, individually, even for 2005 and 2006, we find that the usefulness of public finances management in the national budget is virtually impossible to identify, unless it comes to a detailed revision of the individual tasks financed by public funds, which is almost impossible to do at the time of the audit of the final budget account. What exactly is the basic problem? The main problem is that the objectives and tasks set out in the budget at the time of the adoption of the budget are not recorded in such a way that their implementation is measurable, there are no criteria for determining the usefulness and criteria for determining the achievement of the objectives, which, of course, cannot be evaluated later in the final account and how our government, our Government, individual ministries, individual government services and offices can, of course, carry out or achieve the objectives they set each year. This is also seen in the way investment transfers are carried out in particular, how the development programme plan for each annual period is implemented under the development programme plan. Therefore, it can also be seen that investment transfers are not fully carried out without any specific explanation. It is interesting that when a task has not been carried out and then the use of funds is appropriately reduced, the budgetary user will not at all make an effort to make it very clear that, for such a reason and for such a reason, the investment has not been made. It is almost unbelievable that in today's times, investment co-financed by the investment transfer from the state budget could have been so cheap that more than 10% of investment transfers in the state budget could have been used less due to cheaper investment; this is hard to believe, and nowhere has it been recorded in the final budget account. So, we are convinced that without good, quality planning, it is said, without clearly defined objectives, without well defined tasks, without a development agenda plan that will be substantively defined and will be known, according to the local word, who drinks and who pays, it is also impossible to draw up a final budget account which would evaluate these objectives and determine where the shortcomings are, in fact, and where the good wages or good practices are, which would be taken into account and continue to work. The system currently used by civil servants in setting targets is, quite simply, a copy-paste system. I think that, in particular, when preparing the state budget and even the municipal budgets, we should prevent the use of computers or a function called "copy" and "pasts" because this would force those who create an individual budget and also those who present the implementation of the budget under the final budget account so that they do not constantly return a year, two, three, and ten again, because it is easier and in particular requires less mental effort. I think that one of the basic flaws in our government is that we've gotten used to it and we don't think we need to use our brains. And that is what I think is being seen in the 2006 final budget account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. All of you, welcome! I have to admit, I didn't look at the final account in the details. However, I listened carefully to the debate of all of you, who represented the views and would somehow add the following to this debate. There was also a rather difficult opinion, in sayings, on the views of the Court of Auditors with regard to individual ministries. Someone even doubts whether a positive opinion has been given to one ministry, the Ministry of Education and Sport. You know, given that this is one neutral institution I think or I firmly believe that giving a certain opinion about their decisions here is probably not appropriate, then I could discuss today whether the Court of Auditors' decision was correct, for all other ministries, or for the final account just once for content and once for enforcement. I am also of the opinion that, given the final decisions of the Court of Auditors so far, they have probably always been correct, given their jurisdiction or on the basis of their act, on which they are working, and we can be satisfied at the final stage that no negative opinion has been given to any of the ministries. I am changing that this is one step forward, given that some who are mayors of the municipalities would say that we also know quite well, at least those who have visited the Court of Auditors, what they are actually reviewing and laying down rules that it is not difficult to obtain a negative opinion, it is quite difficult to obtain an opinion with reservation, but not to speak of positive opinions. So, from this point of view, I am convinced that ministries have managed much more transparently or as well as legislation in recent years. I am pleased that, as was also presented, the deficit has been reduced on the basis of the favourable situation. It is said that there has been quite a lot more revenue, mainly on the basis of a higher corporate income tax and I also believe that it is right that, on the basis of this, the deficit has actually been reduced. What you're discussing may be smaller by borrowing. Otherwise, I have to say that it all has the same basis, and I do not know what we would gain, given that, which is also true, one of the Members has warned or indicated that certain developments have taken place, or that a certain influx has emerged on the basis of some of the 2002 issues. Well, that's clear, I think it's about selling or NLB's business, and now, if anyone has any wishes or wants to have something that ties him to it. The government changed, and in this case this Government carried out this realization, saying what was concluded in 2002 and actually carried out, or as a certain consequence, the transactions carried out in 2002 which were fixed for the following years and what related to 2006 were carried out in 2006. But no one at the expense of this, at least it was not noticeable that he would brag, but yes, what we have done now in 2006 is good or positive, which has actually affected the budget or the final account. So it's a consequence of some past actions. As far as European funding is concerned, I believe that the percentage that was realised in 2005 and 2006 is good in 2007. We are used to criticism by the opposition that European funds are being used to a much smaller extent than planned. In fact, this is also seen from the final accounts, but I would like to point out once again, but on the one hand, according to the projects that have been prepared, in view of all the administrative obstacles or regulations that we need to take into account here, this percentage is good for me. But above all, it's good from this point of view, because pumping isn't pumping from today to today, but we know, N plus 2 or N plus 3. That is to say, we have not lost anything here in drawing on European funds. But I have to be perfectly honest with myself about what will happen in 2008 and, above all, in 2009, but then we can ask ourselves, or you can wonder whether the percentage is 75 or 77 as good as it was in 2006. So I estimate that the use of European funds was jealous or would say good, because now intensive work is either at the local level or at the state level, on the fact that 100% of the European funds are being spent, because we are, I am sure, ready for 2007 and 2008 and 2009 now, as well as the 2008/2009 budget or the 2008/2009 rebalancing budget, which provides for many more of these funds, which should also be pumped or realised. By assessing that the final account is, I will now say, a good one, in fact, the final account is the result of the implementation of the budget. Now, here is a big debate or debate on what was good and what was not good, and I am also firmly convinced that we can't fix it anyway, except for what some of you are going into, that something wasn't fixed on the right accounts; I will not go into it. That investments have been under-realised, as far as investment transfers are concerned, you know, we have to be honest with ourselves, it is not up to those who are sitting on ministries, officials and so on, it is probably up to these users. If they planned something big and had great desires and were ultimately unable to realize it, they should be asked in the future whether they are planning these investments on the basis of some documents. Be investment programmes, projects prepared as well. However, as regards investments directly managed by the ministries, there is another matter. This, however, should be asked individuals, these professional services by ministries, whether investments have been planned in a qualitative manner. But now I would like to remind you of the pressures on the state budget - when we are preparing the budget or when we are preparing a budget rebalancing. We all have great desires, we all come from some local communities, whether we are a position or an opposition, where we all somehow knock on the door 'Yes, this and this investment must still come into the state budget."then what's happening to us? Then it happens to us that a lot of people don't exactly work out because we had some wishes, but we haven't asked ourselves if certain departments have prepared documentation for this. There is nothing to help us if we devote a million euros to an investment in the 2008 budget, if project documentation is yet to be prepared in 2008. So that I look at this on the one hand critically, that it is really necessary to plan with boldness what can be realized. I will support the final account and I am also convinced that they are the same opinion of colleagues and colleagues from the New Slovenia Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Lahovnik's colleague is supposed to have the word - he's not here. The word has magic. Milan M. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I must say that, of course, I would like to ask the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, if they are already here, to provide a slightly more substantive explanation of the reasons why they think it is impossible to correct the budget. For we say that the budget can be corrected. I will say otherwise: if it is not possible to correct the budget by properly performing for example only one business, and this is the transfer of the claim from the balance sheet of the Republic of Slovenia to the balance sheet of the SOD, on what basis have you done so in budgetary legislation, Mr State Secretary? Under what authority have you done so if you cannot show it now at once in the financial claims and investments account? Why am I saying that? We, in accordance with European legislation, report to European statistics, and it is true that by 2004 we have reported in some way only to the local public. Since 2004, and after joining the European Union, we have been committed and reporting to the European public. For example, we have reported to the European public in 2005 that the debt of pension and health allowance has been taken over, which means that the balance of revenue and expenditure of the state budget has been higher than was actually shown in the cash flow principle. We haven't shown that in our home numbers. And now we have 2006, a very similar case. From the balance sheet of the Republic of Slovenia, the state budget was transferred to the balance sheet of the SOD for EUR 20 million. We don't know that or we don't want to, we don't want to or we don't know how to show in the statement of the final account of the Republic of Slovenia's budget. And the dilemma that it is is not so small. In the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, can we at all demonstrate this increased assets of the SOD as a reduction in the assets of the Republic of Slovenia? That is why I would like to see the Minister not tell us whether this is a corrective way and a transparent way of showing revenue and expenditure. Then you will say that you will not show revenue from the sale of NKBM in your income and expenditure balance or in the financial claims and investments account and the reduction of expenditure. And I would ask if the government would tell us this very clearly here. Only on this basis can we hold this substantive debate because these were the arguments why, as I have heard from the four opposition groups, we will not support the final budget account for 2006. It's not true that nothing happens. If the budget is not adopted, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia may always submit a revised proposal for a final account. If the law is not adopted and today we are adopting a substantive act, then a new act is submitted. However, if the Government considers that it is good that the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 is not accepted, it points to its attitude towards public finances, which is why the next step is always.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u83	My colleague, you probably know that if there have been irregularities in public finances in 2006, they can only be corrected by a change, the content of an act by the National Assembly or by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u84	I don't want to replicate the President of the National Assembly, but it concerns your statement. That's not true. The fundamental question is, shall we show the correct balance sheet for 2006? And now this balance sheet is not properly shown.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u85	My colleague Cwickl, if the alienation was past the decision on the sale of state and real property, unfortunately this cannot be rectified. We continue the debate. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The debate so far, as well as the presentation of the views of the opposition groups, has in no way convinced me not to support the proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006. I would also be happy if, in my report, the Court of Auditors wrote that it has no reservations or that it would issue a positive opinion, but if memory does not deceive me, then the Court of Auditors' assessment of the proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 is the best for 2006. I will not speak statistics at any time and which ministry has received a negative opinion in the past term because this is not the purpose of this debate. As a matter of fact, I'm respecting the Court of Auditors' report. Personally, what is important to me is what effects we have actually achieved by spending our budget money, or what we have actually drawn first in 2006 and whether then we have achieved these goals. We will all agree that the main objective of economic policies in 2006 was to meet the Maastricht criteria and take over the euro 1.1.2007. We did it. The macroeconomic policies allowed Slovenia to become the first of the countries to join the Union in 2004 to meet the relevant criteria for entry into the monetary union as of January 2007. Relatively fast as early as 11 July last year, the final exchange rate between the tolar and the euro at the central parity level at the time of participation in ERM 2 was established, reflecting the external and internal balance and the sustainable competitive position of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, the economic policy framework provided, this is a very important, low level of inflation, realised inflation of 2.5% was planned. If I only touch fiscal policies with a sentence or two. In 2006, this was aimed at implementing a comprehensive tax reform. The first measures were already adopted at the end of 2005 and were upgraded by the comprehensive tax reform approved by the National Assembly in October 2006. Part of the measures have already been implemented in 2006, while most of the measures will be implemented by the end of 2009, here I am particularly thinking of eliminating the tax on paid salaries. The aim of this reform is to increase competitiveness and promote higher levels of economic growth while at the same time striving to maintain macroeconomic stability. And since I said that it is interesting to monitor the effects or effects of spending budgetary money, it is only necessary to say that the gross domestic product was planned in 2006 4% and the realization of 2006 5.2%. Inflation, as it is said, is planned and realised at a level of 2.5%. Export of products and services planned 7,8, realisation 10. Investments in fixed assets, planned 4,5 realised 11,9. And the rate of registered unemployment in percent, 9.6 planned, realisation 9.4. This is just a few of the effects that the Government has realised in 2006 with the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and there are many reasons why I will also accept the proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The audit report refers to the health sector as one of the areas of business that does not comply with the laws of the Republic of Slovenia. When I read the final report carefully and the explanations of individual ministries, I read the Ministry of Health very carefully. Of course, I wondered whether there were systemic reasons for the Ministry of Health's activities in order to do so in the field of investment in health institutions. It will be very obvious if we look at some indicators that then result in what is happening in the field of investment in public health institutions, but I am talking about investments in secondary and tertiary health institutions for which the state is responsible. First of all, let us look at the response of the Ministry of Health, which speaks of providing adequate spatial facilities and equipment for the functioning of the public health service network as one of the basic tasks defined by the National Health Programme of the Republic of Slovenia Health for all the years 2004. Then it is an interesting addition, which will continue temporarily until the adoption of the national programme 2007-2013. So, it's very interesting, for the first time, this gap between 2005, 2006, 2007 is already over, and this national programme is not yet. And, of course, it will also be interesting how this will go in 2008, given that for 2008 we do not have this national programme that we are supposed to have for 2007-2013. And, of course, if we can then continue to see that there is a law for public health investment, that is, a law that defines these contents, of course, we can observe that the dynamics of the implementation of this programme are actually more modest than it should be. If we continue, of course, to read how investments in public health establishments take place at a secondary and tertiary level, of course, we will come to the work of the Committee on Public Health Investments. When we compare the explanation to 17% of the implementation, we are talking about 17% of the implementation, according to the 2006 budget, we see that we have spent only 340,000 tolars on the work of this committee in 2006, with 2 million funds planned. It is interesting to explain in materials where this committee should, i.e. the resources for the work of the Committee on Public Health Investments, be responsible or have competences, i.e. to monitor and monitor the implementation of the investment programme, and prepare an annual investment programme. The question is: In whose interest did this committee not work? This story has an interesting dimension if we read the letters of the chairman of this committee, which says 4.12.2007 and in the first sentence, the second sentence reads: Immediately after your performance I wrote you a letter in which I told you my distress, i.e. my distress as Chairman of the Committee on Health Investment, which has been going on for almost six years. And then it goes on to say, in the beginning, that this committee worked relatively well, and then it was in a period of reassurance. However, in the last period, neither in return nor in the future, this committee is not functioning. And what is interesting is what the chairman of this committee wrote, of course, that he suggested that more attention be given to this field, but there was no response to the problems of investment in health care when he pointed out the health problems. And then we wonder why there is no national programme, why there is no ongoing work being monitored by this committee in the field of investment and why there are problems in the field of investment in public health institutions. And then it is perfectly understandable that in the Court of Auditors' audit report we receive such assessments that there are many health problems. So this government has shown itself unable to prepare a national programme. The national programme should, of course, define one of the core tasks, as well as investment in public health institutions. And the question is, in the interest of who, and why do things happen this way? That's what he's worried This concerns because financial operations are only the result of poor substantive, planned, professional policy guidance in the health field. You can read, even in the context of an explanation. Very simple interpretations for individual projects, planned so much, realisation from 0 to 3, to 5, even to 100% realization, but there are no reasons why this has occurred and where the reasons are. Most importantly, the fact that the committee that should monitor these matters is not meeting at all and the president is expressing the difficulty of actually monitoring and planning his work. So, 17% realisation! Or do we imagine - 17% of the realization, with such a small item, such a substantively important matter! And then we explain to the Slovenian public the problems of the Oncology Institute, the problems of the Paediatric Clinic, the investments stand, and the committee that should do these things is not heard. During these three years, he had a session here and there, and he was mostly involved in confirming and giving some agreement on what had already been done, but no one had stimulated him to exercise control in order to go to the field. The ministry says dead-coldly that the realisation is bad, but the reason is that the committee didn't work. For 2006, the end of 2007 - the same picture. And here things are in the eyes and bear the responsibility of this government, not just for financial business, but for the state of health as a whole. I will add the next segment here, this is the work of the Health Council, which is justified as the highest coordinating body and the highest consultative body of the Ministry of Health, which formulates proposals, the scope and content of health programmes from the point of view of their feasibility, representation and economic development of all professions. Basic Advisory, Expert Body on Health Policy. Implementation was 29.6%. Therefore, interestingly, such important segments on the one hand show that there is no health policy and there is no interest in the work of the expert advisory bodies, and on the other hand there is no interest in the functioning of those committees that would monitor investments in health, which are in fact one of the most attractive public stories in terms of the use of budgetary money. This is where these facts worry, and the ministry's answers go into a very non-chalant form of what's going on in this area, and nothing changes. And I will conclude once again with the Ministry of Health in this mandate, whoever the Minister is, the Slovenian public only a letter from the Chairman of the Committee on Public Health Investments, which writes: "I am writing a letter to you in which I have communicated my distress, as Chairman of the Committee on Public Health Investments, which has been going on for almost six years. And no one in this government is willing to listen to this committee, except that someone thinks that this committee should play a role as it does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Member Villa Trofenik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. One would wonder whether it is even worthwhile to discuss the item on the agenda, even though discussions and other things show that we have something else on the agenda, rather than the final accounts of the State budget for the year in 2006 in particular. The very absence of those responsible for the implementation of the budgets, that is, ministers, shows a specific relationship, but there are also some debates and people would imagine if they did not know what the agenda item is, that we are talking about some economic policy and macroeconomic frameworks, not the implementation of the budget. If I try to be consistent, indeed the Government, as a political body, has the exclusive right to propose a budget, the National Assembly generally accepts the position, but then this state budget of the Republic of Slovenia and its implementation is a process that is largely, not exclusively, mainly related to or concerns professions, bureaucrats, experts who should implement it, policies only as long as the legislation gives the Government and ministers certain powers to intervene at certain times, for the first time if economic development does not follow the macroeconomic policy forecast, secondly if there are unpredictable reasons to prevent the adoption of the budget adopted. Otherwise, today we should discuss and determine whether the 2006 State budget is implemented in accordance with the positive legislation adopted in this National Assembly. Unfortunately, there is talk of what is best for everyone and, on the other hand, the eyes are closed before facts that are not estimates, which are not forecasts, which are simple facts that have happened in the implementation of the budget, and should refer to irregularities, illegalities, weaknesses or even good things. First of all, it should be noted that the Government, as a budget proposal, has achieved a macro-economic framework and is at an end. And that revenue and expenditure are realised in this context and there is no debate in this respect. But in the very technique of the implementation or procedures of the implementation of individual budget items, the situation is significantly different. You know - and it doesn't matter what kind of authority it is, it's not criticism, it's some talk about the current authorities. I do not accept these assessments, but also if the Court of Auditors, with all due respect, gives them that we must be satisfied that I will not say, even audacious and happy, because the trend is positive. At 14 negative opinions of 15 you can't be happy. And that after 17 years of existence, and when there's practically no reason, there's no extraordinary situation or any embarrassment. This is another problem that everyone should ask themselves: whether professionals, professions, bureaucrats in a positive sense are not up to reality, whether politics involves more than is permissible, or even violence against these procedures, because there can be no other reason. I doubt there would be enough quality professionals available because otherwise they are not professionals. As an illustration, I'm going to name only one of the four cash registers. Take a look at the medical checkout, the Health Insurance Office has received a positive opinion. And I don't think any ministry can compare with the number of business events if you want, and the extent to which it is in this cash register. This is said to be the case in Slovenia, there are professionals who know how to handle public finances properly. And from this point of view, it's very difficult to accept then that it's better than it was years ago. Even then, it was bad, even worse, perhaps some year, and even then we should all think about it. The final budget account, once adopted, is not just an object of the position and opposition, as I believe it is trying to place some opinion here that it is an opposition problem and the position is satisfied, whatever it is or must boast at all costs. We are now meeting for the first time in these long-term procedures when we adopt the final accounts with a proposal for a negative decision or a proposal not to adopt the final account for 2006. Here, too, I must say that we should have taken care of such a proposal a long time ago, then we would not have it today, and it would probably be a situation for the implementation of the budget, not only this, significantly better, significantly better. But I do not agree that this proposal is the result of the fact that the opposition has a majority and has therefore voted on such a proposal for a decision. What would it mean to accept, as usual, unfortunately, all the years so far, without any particular criticism, the final accounts of the 2006 State budget? This would mean knowingly agreeing with the illegal payment of wages. Conscientiously agree with the employment of administrative workers, without the invitation to tender listing all the requirements of the applicable systemisation. This would constitute a conscious agreement on the use of illicit commodity credits. This would mean consciously agreeing with the conduct of investment in a broader sense in contravention of legislation. And we could also list what it means to accept a final account on the basis of the Court of Auditors' findings which are not disputed. We can discuss whether it was necessary to owe the country 25 to 30 billion or avoid it. It's not illegal, it was inside the box, but I don't think it was smart, kind of river, or anything else. After all, there is no point in discussing whether or not the evidence can be corrected on the basis of applicable tax legislation. It is unacceptable that we are even discussing this, that we have come into a situation where we are talking about a final account that is not credible. And then we make up - I believe there are marital obstacles, but, dear people, where have we been for so many years? This government, this government, the former government, many people knew this, the profession had to say it, I believe it said it, and we are also discussing those matters when the representative of the European Court of Auditors told us clearly and loudly that it was absolutely unacceptable to think about it, that the statements would be unworthy and then accept them. In some ways, this should be overcome; it is a matter of course of profession that it teaches politics and proposes appropriate solutions. Not to mention what it means to knowingly land on illegality, on illegal procedures, not what could be better or worse, but also within the framework of legality. And so I understand this conclusion, and it is also up to me that, although I believe that it is symbolic, I am sure that I am not naive that most of this final account will be accepted, but I simply do not want to be involved in this, but no matter what situation it is, in the position or opposition, because it is inappropriate for a Member to knowingly in a house that adopts legislation and which should be the first to care for the legality of business, let us close down in one way or another and knowingly violate legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Member Friday has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u92	Thank you, Vice President. I will begin my debate on your laziness question of what it actually means if we accept or fail to confirm the final bill. It is true that our participation, obviously our awareness of everyone in a row, shows that this is how we come to this Chamber when we consider and decide on the final accounts of the state budget. If we were aware of the different meaning of this act, there would be more of us here, we would argue with each other, we would actually play the role of the coalition and the opposition, but we have come here with the already drafted opinions of the coalition: let them say what they want, we will accept it; and some opposition is at least worthy to point out what is worth warning us about in this report, not to leave the matter to chance. The fact is that there is no sanction for non-approval of the closing account. But it may be that more than sanctioning is important for someone, but what moral lessons are there in accepting such a document or not accepting it? We listen to different debates in the EU, there can be no such budget violations and that the final account will identify violations such as those dealt with by Slovenia's final account and we will decide on them. This cannot happen there because they have a tradition and because they are in their heads, that is, morally, governments and ministries and Members have morally cleared up and know what it means not to adopt such an act. We're just doing the "dogs bark, caravans go on" thing. But it is true that some of the consequences of barking leave behind. Therefore, it is important to note that the changes are better, that there is a trend in demand, but it is not our intention to agree that the trend is okay and that illegalities are found in this final account and we should consider this when we take decisions. It is nothing less than that a huge amount of time and effort have been invested in the consideration of these documents by at least part of the Members, who are sitting in the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, who first had to read the final account fairly, who had to process very thoroughly the Court of Auditors' audit report, which, at two meetings, spent a few hours working together to determine what and where it is worth finding the basis for any decision, and we finally found that there is no agreement between the Ministry and the Court of Auditors on the repair of this final account, in order to appoint the revised final account. We are not satisfied with what every normal responsible employee in the management is obliged to do: the final account must be accepted. To the extent that it is not accepted, heads fall in management or in the economy, administrations, supervisory councils and assemblies hereby sanction responsibility and irresponsibility. I do not say that in Slovenia heads must fall, in the government the heads should fall, but what head should be given to be aware that they cannot behave as some have behaved. And in our debate, we found that this was eccentric in the Ministry of Health, which was the biggest violation of its own legislation, that it was to the Ministry of Justice, which was buying property that had not been planned and could not be bought and purchased through the law. That certain compensations and purchases have been made without any basis in the sales programme. And if it's not enough that I'm not going to list everything, that's an important reason to question whether such a closed account is possible to accept. And the excuses when we came to the Commission to the point that, given that these violations were relatively small compared to the previous year, I said relatively that they were at a level of EUR 30 million, sometimes there were EUR 200 million - that this could be done much easier and that we already know that if there were no systemic measures, that it would not be possible to do so in 2007, because there would be more budget or planned funds, and mistakes probably more, so it was an attempt to create the conditions for doing things differently. It didn't work! And one of the reasons or the explanation was that we can't, we've already put a budget on the APIS, we can't fix it now. All business entities, when they place the budget on the APPES, shall, at the conclusion of the Assembly, correct it and place it on the IAPES and such it shall be further processed and analysed. And that was the purpose of this conclusion to force these people in some way who, with such empty arguments, certainly refuse to do so. What with responsibility, that's another story. In the debates and in our conclusions it was said that even the coalition in its coalition agreement had committed itself to introducing the accounting of business events following the event. So three years is a coalition contract; three years is run by the Ministry of Finance, which comes from the coalition; three years, and today Mr Veršnik notes that this is enshrined in the coalition contract. Thank God! An honest confession, but of that "no coma Joseph," we say in Styria. So the conclusion that today is the basis for more criticism than praise. And it is said that for three years it has been established or recorded in the coalition contract that the balance sheet will be an integral part of the final account. So why are coalition treaties signed if they know in advance they won't come true or if I have the good will to make these things come true. I hope that this is at least one lesson for those who write such documents. And it is also known for three years that Article 27 of the Law on the implementation of the budget and three years that there is an objective difficulty in paying off twelve funds for the functioning of users. Normally, it is perfectly clear to me that they cannot cease to work simply because they have not concluded contracts or their councils have not confirmed programmes, etc., and it is clear that this Article 27 is non-life. But it's been inanimate for three years, and three years it was possible to fix it. Now we have a promise that we will continue to correct it. I hope that this debate, and this experience on this budget, has given this final account a little more courage to those who will take up this law. As regards some of the findings of colleagues that discussed this final account today. Mr Veršnik pointed out to the opposition that we are building a rejection of this final account only on the decision or finding that the planned data for investments and investment transfers, that is 90 and 87%, do not provide a basis for confirmation. That's not true! Everything else was indeed the basis for the decision not to confirm but only this conclusion. This is the conclusion that we are aware of the relationship between planned investments, investment costs and actually realised costs, and that this will in fact be the basis for planning to be more realistic and that realisation will approach 100%, that it will not be 100%, we believe that it is possible to find out now. More or less, the comparison that in recent years there have also been significant ministries that have not received a positive opinion or had opinions with reservations. It is unacceptable for me to emerge from the past, and we aim to improve practice, to improve the attitude and responsibility of all those who implement decisions under the law or laws in practice, but not to build our rejection or interpretation of the placement of positions simply because some of them have been worse than they are now. For me, I think it's unchangeable, and there's no argument at all. As far as Mr Testen's Member of Parliament is concerned, I am simply referring to what has been born to me through listening to some debates. Mr Testen himself stressed in his debate: "We particularly stress the consistent respect of legislation and regulations in the implementation of the budget." So they stress this as a consistent definition, and some do it beyond this consistency - quite differently than the words spoken. If that were the case, then there would be no such errors; there would be no obvious breaches of the legislation in certain areas. There would be no problems in the area of, say, compensation received by the archdiocese in connection with the settlement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Archbishop of Maribor around the Vrban plato. There we know that a billion 700 or almost two billion tolars were settled at the time and the compensation was agreed in the form of payment through the budget, because everything else in nature could not be settled. Part of this was settled already in 2006, if I recall correctly, and by July 2007 funds of 700 million and a few million tolars were to be paid. We understand all of this! We also understand that someone may have decided to settle for the bishop. What is the settlement, how many funds have been invested before, when the funds have been invested, what the State should actually give to the archdiocese as a compensation, that is a story that has already passed. However, someone has decided and paid for these funds beyond all the rules of law. Mr Testen, however, says that consistent respect for legislation and regulations is the basis for acting on the coalition or at least on NSI in this story. So they're obviously convincing themselves of a really different state. Mr Mikolić hung himself on my word when I said that there was still some doubt in the Ministry of Education, precisely because of what I have just mentioned. The Ministry of Education knew what was going on on here. The Ministry of Education has consciously included this obligation in the settlement before the financing. And for this reason, I have expressed this doubt which the Court of Auditors has, and this right has, and is politicised in the position and report of the Court of Auditors, but it is not for this reason to tell us to hang ourselves on such a slight, slight comment. Mr Mikolič, we need to talk about the entire budget, the entire final account, all violations and this is the basis for today's debate. The coalition should also discuss in this way precisely in order to help improve, for the first time in practice, and for the second time, the responsibilities and behaviour of those who simply go beyond all the provisions for which they are bound by legislation and regulations, behave in the way we see them today and, as I said, as a result, the practice does not show any significant improvement. We have listened to Mr Antončič, a member of the European Court of Auditors, in the Commission on Public Finance Control. There he told us all what the Court of Auditors wants to achieve primarily with its audits and what the European Parliament requires of the Commission: respect for legislation, rational use and transparent use of funds. This is enough to avoid even considering such violations, so that the final bill is rejected, but these moral lessons are shared by those who are entitled to it. The reasons for not being able to confirm such a closing account, the reasons that show that the closing account cannot be accepted or should not be accepted in this National Assembly, was sufficient, it is clear that more opposition Members are being referred to and that a little under the table you are pressing your fingers and not saying what you would probably want to say if you were in another role than in those: Members of the coalition. So, LDS and personally of this final account will not be confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I call on Ambassador Rudi Veršnik to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. I didn't mean to, but I have to get started. For 12 years, mistakes took place, and I'm sure they happened 12 years before this government took over the government. And I am also sure that such debates were not in this House, but that you were discussing far more important things that were also wrong. I think we are united that similar mistakes have been repeated so far, but let us not stress the one that is most important: these errors are smaller from year to year. So, the trend is going in the right direction. And let this be the guide that the honourable Mr Friday has outlined before me. Trends are important. Look, you're saying we're reading that these are the only comments the opposition is making. Yes, they are. I think you've turned to these four errors that are presented in the Court of Auditors' report. And you've read all the parliamentary groups to the government or the Ministry for these mistakes. Let’s take a quick look at the extent of these errors. So much so that it'll be a little more presentable to see what we're talking about. If we are talking about this error in the General Navigation of Portorož, this means 0.32% of the budget total revenue shown too low for 2006. The second error in the Ministry of Environment and Space represents 0.16% of the total revenue of the state budget. The third error in the Ministry of Defence is 0.03%. And the fourth error, which had no impact on the total amount of government budget expenditure, represented 0.27% and meant only the incorrect structure of transfers for that amount. I hope that what I have just said is that this is the content of these accounting errors in the final accounts of the State for 2006 and that shows that the executive authority had no reason to make such mistakes on purpose. Here I think we are united: there was no intention. The error of 0.5% of total expenditure still means that the final account of the State, with the exception of these errors, is fair and genuine evidence, a representation of the operation of the State and therefore needs to be supported. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't support him. It was also said that the auditor of the European Court of Justice, Dr Antončič, who was the guest of our Committee on Budgetary Control, was also very much asked what to do in these cases. He made it clear and clear that errors after the Court of Auditors' final audit no longer make sense to correct them and that this is not done anywhere in European practice. Clearly, that was an exact statement. He said, however, that at the time of the revision, it makes sense to correct mistakes if there is a process and agreement, and ultimately the point is to do so. And it is not true, or it does not make sense, that after all the final audit processes, things are being corrected at the last stage and that this is not a European practice. Many of the findings were also at the expense of drawing on European funds. This pump was 77%. And the entire Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group agrees that pumping is not successful enough. But once again we must say that according to the data we receive from Europe, Slovenia is one of the most successful. So, the problems of drawing on European funds are not alone here in Slovenia, but this is the general situation of all European associate members. I am glad that this trend is going in the right direction. In my opening remarks, I also emphasized that. And in the event that matters do not go this way, I call on the relevant ministries already today to properly organise themselves and to allow as much as possible the correct and maximum use of these European funds for the benefit of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u95	Thank you very much. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the realisation was 100%. The text, of course, is also given by the proposer. Here you go, if you like.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd just like to say for a minute. The Government has received an opinion on this proposal for the 2006 accounts with reservations from the Court of Auditors, which means that certain errors have been made and I do not think they have been to the extent of concern. We will strive to make these mistakes as few as possible in the future, or it would be ideal for them not to exist at all. With regard to the technical corrections to the final account for the back, it is not only our opinion that this is unfortunately not possible at the moment with this existing legislation and practice that we have here. We will, however, examine this question. We are also preparing certain amendments to the legislation, so that we will examine this matter in detail together with the Court of Auditors, with which we will set up a working group. As well as the proposal to use an invoiced realization. This is a method that is used, as you all know, more in Anglo-Saxon systems, says Britain, New Zealand, Australia. We need to examine this in detail what the transfer of this practice into our system would mean. So we will examine all of this in detail. Above all, we will agree with the Court of Auditors for the following year on how to make the final account as good as possible, although our opinion is that it can only be adjusted in the audit phase and then the final account is a fact and is the same as it is. In this case, however, it is a final account for highly professional issues, which can then also have political consequences, so that we will work with the Court of Auditors first and foremost at the professional level. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate? Thank you. I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the closing account today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 10. Period of the day - Defence proposal for a law amending the law on the privatisation of Slovenian railways. We are considering the act in short notice. We have an hour for him. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Darjo Lovtizjar Bebler. With regard to this bill, the Committee on the Economy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the Vice-President of the Committee on the Economy to Mr William Rezman for an additional explanation of the draft decision. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, this Act on the Privatisation of the Slovenian Ironworks, proposed by the Group of Members and Members, was considered by the Committee at its 39th meeting, and on the former holiday of 29 November, it was as a working mother, as decided by the College of the President of the National Assembly. The panel was attended by representatives of the proponents, the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government, the Ministry, which is relevant to this area and everyone has also actively participated in the debate. The legislative and legal service, the Government and the proponents have also submitted the relevant material, but no amendments have been tabled in the course of business. However, one decision was proposed later and it was not adopted. The government's opinion was repulsive. The Government considers that this proposal is not appropriate and this is justified by some of the following arguments. After presenting the history of the event first and identifying or presenting the method of recovery of the Slovenian Ironworks, later SIJ as legal successors, she disputed that market prices of shares would be directly compared in different periods, that the possibilities of pre-emptive rights had been given to all the companies authorised, that the privatisation process for the Government had been completed at a time when all the beneficiaries, workers, employees, pensioners, and, therefore, those who had been entitled, had converted their entitlements into shares of the Slovenian Railways. In the debate, it was also possible to listen to conflicting arguments, in particular by arguing that the valuation of shares was not appropriate, but that it was those who proposed the law and those who opposed it in the same way, only for different reasons and with different views. However, everyone was convinced that it was not properly evaluated. They also considered that the sale of SIJ shares was inadequate and that the opportunity acquired by the authorised companies, namely the possibility of acting actively as a co-owner, with great possibilities, i.e. 20% of the possibilities of exercising co-ownership rights, was neglected. There was also a lot of talk about real purchases and whether this is not possibly about wrong data or hidden data, because two different purchases were operated, which were presented in the 1:3 range, and this caused certain doubts among the discussers. Others, those who defended the Government’s position, considered that in the market economy, stock prices were not directly comparable, especially if different periods were involved. They considered that the legally contested requirement for amending the law, which would allow the possibility of owning 20% of the share of individual subsidiaries at any time, and mentioned the possibility that the current new owner, so if the law were to change, would be entitled to actions which, if the actions had been received, would have cost our country dearly. Law enforcement also had some serious concerns. These concerns raised were, in particular, concerns about the appropriate or inadequate transposition of all procedures, but these concerns were not later confirmed by any conclusions or amendments. There is also a proposal following the postponement of the final conclusion, after reconsideration, but this proposal for a decision was rejected, so the Committee has proposed, by a majority of course, that Parliament or the National Assembly decide on its decision, which refers to the fact that the proposal, the law, is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u99	Thank you very much. However, I would like to take the floor by inviting a representative of the bill-maker. Comrade Bojan Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary. It is clear from the proposal for amendments to the law that we are proposing from the Social Democrats' Group of Members and that it is first signed under today's proposal by Mrs Darja Lovtizar Bebler. The club's negative opinion is clear that we will oppose the proposal of the decision of the home labour body that the proposal of the law is inappropriate for consideration. The bill we tabled in the parliamentary procedure is an attempt to eliminate the injustices of employees in the Slovenian ironworks, former employees and retired workers who gave up their salaries in the early 1990s to help fix their factories. As it is known, in 1998 the National Assembly adopted a special Act on Privatisation at the time of the Slovenian Ironworks, which specifically regulated the way of settling obligations to those employees who in the past waived their rights to pay back their arrears and thereby contribute significantly to the rehabilitation of their companies. At that time, the Government, as the bill's proponent, wrote in explanation of the objectives of the law, quote: "The Republic of Slovenia's proposed laws also fulfils the promises made to employees to enable them, as well as other citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, to participate in the ownership of earlier social property and that their claims on unpaid personal income will also be paid. In view of the fact that the conditions for the acceptance of the law on the privatisation of legal persons and property owned by the Republic of Slovenia were fulfilled, the applicant assesses that in the present case it is appropriate to provide a specific basis for the privatisation of the Slovenian ironworks by special law. Taking into account the fact that employees have filed a large number of complaints for payment of unpaid part of their personal income, it is possible that, on the basis of judicial decisions, unpaid part of their personal income will be required in cash. In this case, Slovenian iron mills could go into blocking the gyre of the account and thus would be put at risk of bankruptcy." End of quote. This was thus stated in the explanation of the objectives of the 1998 Act. It turned out that if all employees and former employees really persisted in the actions of their companies, they would endanger the existence of the Slovenian Ironworks, as some have already recognised this claim. At the time, both opposition and coalition parliamentary groups participated with representatives of the employees and tabled a number of amendments to the proposed law, which mainly went in the direction of enabling employees to become active owners of the companies in which they work. The law adopted was also well fulfilled in the sale of individual subsidiaries in the system of Slovenian ironworks until the government sold the system to the Slovenian steel industry as a whole. Thus, employees, former employees and pensioners, who were no longer able to exercise their interest after active ownership in the companies where they were employed in accordance with the law of representation, were forced to take a decision to accept an offer to buy the shares they held at the price negotiated by the government during the sale process with the Russian buyer. And this is where serious problems begin, as the government estimates that most of the affected employees, former employees and retired workers, as well as our estimates for the sale of SIJ, have reached a significant low share price and have damaged them. This problem is not so pressing in Storrah, where most of the workers were paid, nor is it so pronounced in Jesenica, where the company accepted the offer of the buyer of SIJ and is currently very much in Ravna, where the company representing the interests of more than 5,800 shareholders. The fact is that the Government has sold SIJ for an amount corresponding to the profits of this company over the past two years, and also by creditworthiness on the part of our banks. This means that the buyer has repaid the Slovenian ironworks with all their real assets in the fights of the good two years, and regardless of the promises made after the big investment in development, over 200 million euros, this is a fantastic deal that we rarely meet in the world. In addition to the government's behaviour when it sells that it is and will be high in the markets for several years, as experts have been predicting for several years, there is a big question as to who actually earned this sale. These were certainly not employees, former employees and retired workers of the ironworks, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Other taxpayers who also pay this government. Thus, we want to eliminate the injustices caused by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I'm inviting the Minister of Economy for the mountain. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u102	Dear Members and Members! As much deception and deception as has just been heard, not for a long time. Through the Privatisation Commission, the Slovenian Government has conducted an extremely transparent process and has pursued the objectives of privatisation, which can be diverted into the further development of ironworks, the expansion of the sales market, the maintenance of production, good ratings, the willingness to invest further and the entire purchaser of other developmentally oriented ones, such as job conservation, the development of the company in general. And the second goal is to maximize the purchase. Therefore, an international call was made in which everyone, including those who today say the price was not optimal, could be made. And the specific buyer, who eventually also bought the Slovenian steel industry or its majority share, offered far the best price and at the upper limit of evaluation. So, I call on those who speak today that the matter is not optimal, to provide me with concrete evidence of this or to refrain from flat-rate flosses that are actually characteristic of any privatisation. In particular, this is most fair, but all that is general is misleading. However, it is obvious that the applicant has also followed this objective. This is said not to change the system law, because the Slovenian steel industry is already privatised and to amend the rules of the game, although the same party from which this proposal comes was, in short, even the validity of the Act on Privatisation of the Iron Coalition and did not change the law of 1998. And today, to claim that, after being privatized, this would be meaningful and possible, in fact, does not contain any elementary criticism, let alone some legal or legal judgment. Therefore, in order to propose and adopt an amendment to the law after 10 years of implementation of the law, i.e. after completion of privatisation, it seems to us that it is reckless, reckless, unnecessary, harmful and is also interfering with the economic initiative and does not guarantee the legal security of economic operators. I do not know how to defend the constitutionality of such a change, especially with regard to Article 74 of the Constitution which interferes with the principle of free economic initiative and the law interferes with the ownership rights of someone who has acquired them under different conditions. So, Your Honor, the heart of this proposal is not to change or otherwise protect certain interests, but to politicise the country's withdrawal from the economy on one particular case. It is very misleading to talk here about the attempt to eliminate injustices to some employees, pensioners and the like, and that the Government has not done this issue optimally. I am convinced that in every economic society, there is a need for partners to be together in good and bad, and I wonder what the proposer will say at a time when in some way this period of conjuncturing in the steel industry will be behind us and when there will be a problem in the steel industry again on the horizon. The country, the Slovenian taxpayers, have rehabilitated the Slovenian steel industry, prepared it for privatisation, the government took advantage of the moment's favourable position of the world and thus of the Slovenian steel industry, taking advantage of this in such a way that the Slovenian steel industry has vertically connected it into a wider system that offers raw materials and also offers the markets of the Slovenian steel industry and has equipped and prepared it for some better competitiveness even in possibly slightly worse times. I would also like to clarify that the price was negotiated at a relatively high level and that all the profits in the following year are intended for the further development of the company. It is misleading to claim that the customer by dividing profits will be able to repay this investment within a few years. All profits from the Slovenian steel industry over the next three years go to further development of steel industry in Slovenia and these specific groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Minister. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Milan M. Cvikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Minister. Have a good day. Without alarm, Mr Minister, but the basics of accounting say that this profit from the Slovenian steel industry will still be in the books of the Russian company KOKS and nowhere else. You should know so much if you're the Minister of Economy. Just because all the profits don't go to Russia, we're proposing a law. The law, which, in our view, allows the legislator to amend the Law on Privatisation of the Slovenian Ironworks and allow those who have been released in the negotiations, but are employees, to provide the right compensation for lost value in this ironworks. I think it is clear to everyone that if someone pays EUR 100 million for the Slovenian steel industry and the data for this year's planned profit say that about two-thirds of this value is going to be wrong, either with profits in 2007 or with the purchase that was negotiated. I understand that the ruling coalition also rejects this law in the light of the decision of the parent working body, and that is why we will also say what we will do next if the law is rejected if you are not in favour of protecting the rights of small shareholders to protect the rights of employees, former employees or now employees, then we will examine it on the parliamentary commission of inquiry, where it will be necessary to discuss the terms and circumstances of the sale of this majority state stake in the Slovenian steel industry. And then, Mr Minister, of course, as a political holder of the public function, you will explain this very precisely without anxiety. The question is very simple: why such a low price? Why, after the Slovenian taxpayers have invested around EUR 500 million in the rehabilitation of the Slovenian Ironworks for the preservation of jobs, the government has failed in the negotiations to survive more than the fights of EUR 100 million, while, of course, the Cox business group says on its website that it should "pay", in narration, EUR 300 million. Will this be a similar story to the story of the settlement with the clearing debt, where the one who negotiated with the finance minister was arrested a few days later by the Russian law enforcement authorities because just when clearing the clearing debt, something too much money was supposed to go somewhere he shouldn't? We therefore propose to the Members and Members of the ruling coalition that you support the law. By supporting the law, allow it to protect at least part of the interest. The government, this group that sold this, did not protect this public interest. Members and Members of the National Assembly are on the move. If you support the law, then it will be possible to protect the interests of employees, if not, we will discuss political responsibility. To say that the opposition must not point to the unconscious, ineffective withdrawal of the country from the economy in the way it is carried out in this mandate, and we have seen many cases of Mercator, if you want Mercury, the Slovenian steel industry, not least, of course, but that means that, Mr Minister, you do not recognize the opposition as having a role to play. We believe there are many reasons for the adoption of this law, and I suggest you listen to these reasons. Otherwise, as I've already said, we're going to have to find your responsibility elsewhere. Thank you very much. The SD Group of Members will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Member Milan Petek.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u106	Nice greetings, colleague and colleague! Mr. Vice President, Minister! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we understand the trend that led to the proposal of two steel laws, which were actually submitted for the contested sale of the Slovenian steel industry. We have already warned about the issue of sales in the LDS when buying from privatisation of the Slovenian steel industry, but these warnings and these appeals did not withstand any listening. However, sales were disputed because the government was actually selling the Slovenian steel industry 15% below the book value. In this case, we have again faced injury, according to our assessment and assessment of many state assets, because the comparison of business with three of the world's largest iron producers has also shown that the Slovenian steel industry was sold below a comparable market price. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that the Government did not survive the highest possible purchase, even because the price of the Slovenian steel industry was not negotiated with small shareholders, most of whom were also employees in the Slovenian steel industry. This is why some of them were forced to sell shares at this low selling price, which does not create any takeover premium. This year's business growth and profit-making events show that these warnings were on the spot at the time. This year's business of the Slovenian steel industry is further confirmed by suspicion of damage to state property - this profit will be doubled this year. It is also an open-ended serious question of how much Slovenia has taken out of the sale of the Slovenian steel industry since the buyer published on its website significantly different values than the buyer paid to Slovenia. This should be determined by those who have the opportunity to assess and verify this information. With regard to the content of the law itself, let us mention that in the LDS we understand the purpose of the law in order to enable shareholders to make some emergency exit, but we do not know how to answer the question of how the law should actually live. We believe that this would violate the contractual relationship and likely trigger a constitutional dispute if this law were to be enforced. But we are willing to take that risk. The fact is that we would not be in such a situation if the country did not sell the Slovenian steel industry so quickly and so cheaply. And we understand that it's hard to fix something when the majority share is already sold. It is clear, however, that the sale itself cannot be cancelled, even though it may have been sold below the price. As a result, it is obvious that small shareholders will have to look for their rights in court. The LDS, however, places all political responsibility on the coalition and it is up to the LDS to decide whether the decision of the parent committee will be adopted that the law is not appropriate for further consideration, or whether a different decision will allow the search for the truth to begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u107	Thank you very much. My colleague Martin Mikolič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenije. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u108	Thank you for your word and welcome! Let us look back at the time when the Slovenian industry or the iron industry was in an extremely difficult situation, not only in Slovenia, but also on a global scale. We believe that, at this time, 417 euro was a very costly investment, given the state of the industry itself. Later at the time of sale, it is said this year, however, the State has not forgotten the small shareholders representing their rights through the company’s Authorising Officer. In the sale where the share was EUR 190, it was the legitimate right of each shareholder to approach the sale of its share at the time of sale or purchase. This depends on the shareholder whether the price is accepted or not accepted. The market is, of course, one that sets the price where supply and demand meet. We have to get used to it today. At the time of the sale of the majority shareholding, the law still in force today, so that minority shareholders, the shareholder company, still have the right to replace their share of the subsidiary in the event of sale. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that if we adopted this bill, we would change the rules of the game, the question would also be how the majority owner would respond, so these amendments to the privatisation law in our parliamentary group will not be supported. We believe that it is necessary to be thoroughly aware of the terms of the sale and, on the basis of this, to decide how to ensure those entitlements which have been granted by the law in force. The case of the sale of the company, which was at another time, under different conditions, clearly illustrates that the State had made a public tender to which it had applied at the beginning of 8 tenderers, after which three submitted the offer. The Commission thus selected the most favourable bidder to commit to achieving the objectives and criteria of sales. We certainly believe that the country was trying to sell and also sold under the best conditions at that time. And if this is a foreign buyer, it does not seem to us that there was no domestic interest. We do not care about small shareholders who are a weaker member of this society and usually lose such a battle. We believe their dissatisfaction to feel somewhat neglected, just to change the current law seems unacceptable to us, that is, these legislative changes affect the business decisions of each economic operator. We aim to ensure that, to the extent possible, the State withdraws from the economy and is not allowed to intervene in such a way as to give the minority shareholder the right to influence the ownership structure of subsidiaries. After almost ten years of implementation of the current law and all ownership changes in the Slovenian ironworks d.d. The State has withdrawn from the majority ownership structure and has thus left the responsibility for managing a private majority owner, which we know has entered into this under well-known and clear conditions. In the New Slovenia Group, we are opposed to the proposed amendment because any change could constitute new litigation by the owner, so we will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by colleague Marjan Drofenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u110	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, at the Gallery, welcome. Initially, I must point out that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we are pleased that the Slovenian steel industry has recently been in very good condition. Perhaps some of you remember the debates in the years when the Slovenian ironworks were completely bankrupt and are thinking about whether it is even reasonable to fix them or perhaps it is better to sell them to the first interested foreign buyer who would probably have closed them in those times of crisis in one way or another. It is clear that the value of the Slovenian ironworks at that time was less than zero. It was precisely the Slovenian People's Party that strongly opposed the sale of ironworks, sought to rehabilitate them and also prevented their sale. Today, it is clear that such an attitude was right and that our steel industry is doing very well. Let's go to Storres Steel or the Slovenian steel industry. In our view, the sale of the Slovenian steel industry was not particularly bad. However, it is important to watch that the new owner invests in technology invests in environmental protection so that it is possible to do so in a future recession, which may also occur in the steel sector, that the Slovenian steel industry will then be ready for recession. In these types of industries, there are cyclical crises and if, in the slogans, "this industry does not have some stock", then these crises are very difficult to survive or help to survive the country. The proposed amendment to the law refers to the right of beneficiaries represented by the companies of the authorising officers whenever they replace shares of the Slovenian ironworks for shares of a subsidiary up to a maximum of 20% of the basic capital. In doing so, the applicants want to enable beneficiaries to be employees, former employees and pensioners, so that the replacement would no longer be limited to, for example, the sale of an individual subsidiary within the framework of the Slovenski Iron System. Of course, such a solution would also apply to the sale of shares in the Republic of Slovenia in the Slovenian steel industry this year. In our view, in this case it would be unacceptable to intervene in an already concluded sales contract, which, in our view, is not acceptable in terms of legal certainty, as this would interfere with the rights already acquired. The proposed law in the SLS Group will therefore not be supported. To think about the proposed law in the sense that it means rejecting it that the State does not want to do anything for workers is tendentious and demagogic. For there were many who had already lost their jobs in 1990, 1991, 1992 in the Slovenian Ironworks, not to talk about other companies. No one's actually talking about those. It is much more important than what this bill is talking about, whether we will know the new owners of those companies that have been sold to motivate them to actually ensure the environmental adequacy and future success of these companies. So we won't support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u111	Thank you, too. Mr Lahovnik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary! When it came to the concept of the privatisation of the Slovenian steel industry, some of us then warned that it would be better if privatisation were carried out through subsidiaries directly and not through holding companies, especially because those who had shares in individual subsidiaries would thus suffer a significantly better price. In this way, we believed, it would be better to secure the interests of small shareholders. Above all, we also believed that, and we believe this today, that this way the country would survive significantly more. The major synergies discussed between all steel companies were not as much as the cost of joint management. If individual steel companies were also privatised on their own, the withdrawal would probably be higher in the end and even less dissatisfaction. Even in our Group, we were very surprised when we looked at the results of the Slovenian steel industry and found that only in the first 6 months did the Slovenian steel industry have 42 million euros in profits and another 10 million euros in depreciation and that the net cash flow in the first 6 months of this year amounted to half of the purchases that the Russians bought the Slovenian steel industry. The data is even more unusual and inconvenient because it coincides with the forecast of annual profits highlighted in the Slovenian steel industry, which amounts to EUR 68 million. All we can do is ask ourselves how someone with such balance sheet data, with clear signs of expansion on the steel market, could sell 55% of the Slovenian steel industry for only EUR 105 million. These are actually incredible numbers that require more than likely just a debate in the National Assembly. Also, the valuations made by small investors in the Slovenian steel industry have made it clear that the fair market value of each stock is at least EUR 280 and, according to optimistic estimates, more. And how could someone then sell the Slovenian steel industry for EUR 190 per share? How could someone sell the Slovenian steel industry for a total of EUR 105 million when this amount will be paid with a net cash flow of almost one year? These are questions of interest to many. Of course, they are also interested in small investors, who are now facing the fact that they are engaged in the Slovenian steel industry by someone who has paid too little and is not involved in the local-business environment, who also face the fact that they have received a substantial undercutting for their shares. In this respect, it must be said that a kind of paradox has arisen. The paradox is, of course, because the country has sold substantially below the price, it has in some ways begun to blackmail small investors to accept this price, which is not justified and not logical. Small investors suddenly became a minority owner, the majority owner is someone who has taken over the entire Slovenian steel industry for a very low, ridiculously low price according to the business balance sheet, and they have nothing left but to try to achieve this difference in different ways, including on the way to court. In the Group of Members, it is indeed estimated that the proposed law has a number of shortcomings. This is not to be denied, many of us have been warned by the Law-Legal Service, it has very many weaknesses. Its fundamental advantage, however, is that it points out that in the case of the Slovenian steel industry something was very badly wrong. And in order to try to correct those articles that are actually at issue in the future, to remedy the shortcomings that we are also reminded of by the Legal and Legislative Service, we will also support the legislative proposal in the Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Member Boštjan Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Minister! I hope you have given good instructions to my successor, Mr Cernač, what to say, given that you are walking through Parliament and you probably find that something was really wrong when it comes to the privatisation of Slovenian ironworks. I apologize for the poor voice, but tobacco law also has consequences for us smokers. Mr. Minister, not long ago, I think that for a few days, I watched you on one of the shows on one of the Slovenian television shows when you and your fellow Minister Gregor knocked on the table, almost knocked down the table about how you're going to fight the tycoons. It seems to me that this privatisation or "acceptance" of this government, when it comes to Slovenian ironworks, was the first school attempt to grab something that will make our lives more beautiful in the next four years. I apologize for my words, but you made such an impression. Why did you make such an impression? You made such an impression because we know that the Russian company that bought the Slovenian steel industry could pay in one year all its debts or purchases that it had. But we represented these ironworks as some bad point in our country that needs to be sold because it can't be repaired and because it doesn't have a big perspective. Okay. Even those laymen with me could have believed that at the time. But look at the fragment of who appeared as the President of the Slovenian Steel Industry Supervisory Board. This was Mary Zagozan, according to your belief as a party undecided, in our opinion, how much more a member of the government coalition. The lady had scissors and linen in her hands, just like you do now. And she decided to sell the Slovenian steel industry below the book price. And here you have done a great deal of business for this country. Please tell me who you wanted to paint with this except yourself and no one else among the remaining 40 or 45 Members? The rest of you can do it. I believe that my advocates will also tell you how necessary this sale was, how the Slovenian steel industry was in a terrible crisis, how good it is that we found Russian Cox, someone there far away who will fix it, live it, and all Slovenia will live well. Come on, who do you think we are? But you've damaged at least 2,000 people in Koroška. At least. Just to make you feel good and make the elementary school of acceptance. I'm not saying you didn't have a role model in the previous government. That's not what I'm saying. But at least the previous government knew how to hide it, how to defend it. While you've done it in your own way, you're on a charge. That's how you went about it. The law, as suggested by the SD colleagues, I must say, is not the best. It doesn't solve, far from that, all the segments of this "acceptance". However, it is a good basis to discuss how the Slovenian steel industry sold under the auspices of this government. Can we reasonably suspect that anyone on the part of this government had any of this? I don't know. Maria Zagozhen, her husband, the client you belong to? Maybe, I don't know. That's a good basis for talking. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we will certainly oppose the negative decision of the parent working body and allow further discussion on this primary "admission" of the existing government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, once again. In the DeSUS Group, we cannot decide as decisively as we have heard, just for or only against the law or proposal to amend this law. It has already been mentioned several times today that the law or amendment of the law proposed carries a lot of weaknesses with it, and some of the reasons for consideration have been mentioned. By the way, we know that it has already been announced that whatever decision is taken today, there will be a debate on another committee or on a monitoring committee in the coming months, which we do not object to. But there is no point in having this kind of debate here in the National Assembly. We have also expressed our concerns in this regard on the working body of the mother, and we have put them above all in the position of the Legislative and Legal Service. I can only reiterate that these views or opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service have been heard that it would be right if they had listened to the Legislative and Legal Service, if they had not concluded at that time, and if they had sought those additional arguments that were also necessary in the opinion of this Service in order to be able to decide more doubtably on the support or against this proposal to amend the law. However, we know that any privatisation, any privatisation project in Slovenia we take into our hands, we will see that it has never been most favoured. There has always been someone who has doubted something, and there have always been bad opponents, and there have always been bad advocates. Only those who were satisfied were very few. The main ones were those who bought a company and what a very narrow circle of political back that made all this possible. But it's not just about the present, it's about the past. As a result of these doubts, the DeSUS Group, which nevertheless exists, has remained in the position it has advocated on its home labour body because of the danger that the Government has also pointed out if they adopt the law, so that it does not support the law or the decision of the Committee. We cannot decide, nor do we want to risk, as it was said, teaching us the wrong position only by the Constitutional Court. We still believe that it would be better to think carefully and make the right decision than to adopt this law now or now, as it turns out, it will not be possible to adopt it. We're not voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Possonec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! At its meeting, the Working Body, the Committee on the Economy, decided that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. I will not support this because I believe that small shareholders, former employees, pensioners and current employees have the right to a greater share. The first-signed Group of Members, Darjo Lavtijar Bebler, proposes that employees, former employees and retired workers be allowed at any time to apply for the replacement of shares in the Slovenian ironworks, d.d., with shares in a particular company which may not exceed 20% of the company's basic capital, and not only in the case of the sale of an individual subsidiary within the framework of the business system of the Slovenian ironworks. The current regime does not allow this, since employees, former employees and retired workers can apply for the replacement of shares in Slovenski železarn, d.d., with shares in the company only in the case of the sale of an individual subsidiary under the business system of Slovenski železarna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u120	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, everyone else is present! Some in this room would really need training, but I doubt they could be helped. The sale of the capital share of the Slovenian steel industry, which was made this year, was carried out in accordance with decisions taken by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with these decisions, the government has made sure that sales are made optimally. Sales were made transparently and all interested parties had the same opportunities. I am surprised at my colleague Lahovnik, given that he was Minister of Economy for some time and he must have made quite a few contacts in this area, that he did not bring in a buyer who would have offered a higher price, because the invitation to tender was international, was public, the interest showed 8 interested parties, finally the bids that weighed were submitted by three bidders. I don't know, I don't know. Perhaps he is known by his colleague Lahovnik, so it would be right that at the time when this 55.35% share of the Slovenian industry was sold in order to take advantage of this behaviour and knowledge. I'm sure he'd also get an appropriate commission for this kind of intervention. But anyway. The sale was carried out in accordance with the applicable legislation, as prescribed by the rules of the game. On the basis of the tenders received, the State selected the most favourable bidder. In addition, the State has protected minority shareholders since the buyer has undertaken to buy the shares of the companies of the authorised companies at the same price. Two companies accepted such an offer and one did not agree with the price offered. This is a legitimate right, and given what we have heard today, the Slovenian steel industry currently has a bright future, which will undoubtedly increase this share in the future. So what is the problem, and why a change of law? Employees in the Slovenian steel industry received certificates in 2001 instead of paid salaries and thus shares under the law adopted in 1998. At the time, the Slovenian steel industry was in difficult conditions. The price was then set at 100,000 tolars, i.e. at over EUR 460 after the course at the time, which is significantly higher, even than the most optimistic forecasts that have been made at the present time. So, at a time when this steel industry was actually in a favourable situation. This is said to have been substantially overvalued in 2001. At that time, there was a problem that, in my opinion, with such a change in legislation as is proposed, we will not be able to resolve and not solve. It is normal for those who were given a value of more than 100,000 tolars in 2001 to feel deprived today because of the proportion of unpaid wages. That's normal. Let us remember that all citizens in the past have suffered such deprivations. The entire certification privatisation has led to dozens, to 100,000 perks, as many who have received 80,000 or less from the 100 thousand tolar certificate after investing it in one of the pids. However, we know that we cannot deal with this problem in the manner proposed. In the debate at the time of the law, it was raised by the proposers, by the Social Democrats, the issue of the actual level of the purchase and ownership of real estate, which are also part of the general social infrastructure in Jesenica and which, according to these allegations, is to be passed on to the Russian buyer. However, these fictitious claims are not made on the basis of the examination of the procedure or the examination of the tenders, but on the basis of the customer's website, where it is supposed to be, what is said in public is that the buyer has a share of not EUR 105 million but over EUR 300 million. Social Democrats ask themselves, plastic coins in trucks, where did these Euros go? I've got this website right here. It says the Slovenian government sold 55.35% of the Slovenian steel industry [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] for over EUR 300 million. [[...]] The total amount of the purchase is EUR 105 million, and Cox has committed or has undertaken to invest EUR 250 million in the Slovenian steel industry over the next three years. This is the customer's website, and it says it. Clearly, the motive for the proposed change is not in solving a situation that results from inadequate solutions from the past, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] but a populist demagogy, which is mostly based only on distorted data and sometimes on pure lies. [[...]] Even though the SDS would want to solve the problems of those who disagree with the offer, we cannot support such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u121	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In view of the reduced procedure, we have also concluded the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the proposal for a decision today after the 13th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the 13th item of the agenda - this is for the consideration of the report of the SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE OF THE FUND FOR THE FINANCING OF THE DEPENDATION OF SOME AND THE DEPOSITION OF RADITIONAL EXPENDITURES FROM SOME IN THE YEAR 2005. I'd like to inform you that we have two hours and 20 minutes for this item. The report was submitted to the meeting by the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from NEK. I give the floor to the chairman of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund, Mr Branko Kelemini, for the opening presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u122	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! As Chairman of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and for the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krška Nuclear Power Plant, I first express the great personal satisfaction and satisfaction of all members of the NEK Fund Supervisory Board that today, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, for the first time since the foundation of the Fund, the report of the Supervisory Board of the NEK Fund is being considered. Just so I remember. The NEK decommissioning law obliges the NEK Fund Supervisory Committee once a year to report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the operation of the Fund, to which it is directly responsible for its work. Let me also mention that this meeting of the National Assembly in spring 2005 was appointed by the 10-member Supervisory Committee of the Fund, which is directly responsible for its work to the National Assembly. The Supervisory Committee of the Fund shall be composed of representatives of all parliamentary political parties. According to the statute of the NEK Fund, the powers of the Fund's Board are to monitor the legality of the Fund's management board and the Director's activities, to verify the Fund's closing account, to verify the Fund's operating reports and to carry out other tasks in accordance with the Fund's statutes, laws or sub-legislative acts. On the basis of the law, as has already been said, the Fund’s Supervisory Board has to report annually to the National Assembly on the operation of the Fund last year. Today you are considering the 2005 report. For the sake of modest time, only the most important information on the operation of the Fund in the 2005 report should be provided. First time. The NEK Fund was established in December 1994 by law. Such an arrangement is comparable to other countries, with nuclear technology. The funds collected will be used to finance the decommissioning of NEK and to build a landfill of spent nuclear fuel here low and medium-sized radioactive waste. Today, however, they are used to finance the activities of the Agency of ARAO regarding preparations for the construction of a landfill of low and medium-sized radioactive waste. Another time. In 2005, ELES Gen d.o.o. Under the decommissioning programme of March 2005, the amount of the contribution of 0.003 euros per kilohour from the electricity produced in the NEK. Third time. By 31.12.2005, the Fund had €121.5 million in funding. The amount of funds to be collected by the Fund to cover all costs for its purpose shall be determined on the basis of a programme for the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste prepared and adopted by the Interstate Commission in accordance with the Interstate Treaty and certified by both Governments, the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. By 31.12.2005, direct payments to the Fund amounted to €86.8 million and in 2005 contributions of €7.44 million were paid to the Fund and in 2005 the Fund had generated €9.68 million of revenue with capital investments. Just about spending for a little while. Total expenditure amounted to EUR 4.7 million in 2005, of which ARAO expenditure was EUR 1.97 million, expenditure to compensate municipalities for this use of space under the Government regulation of December 2003 EUR 2.34 million, operating expenditure of EUR 412,000. The return on the fund is determined on the basis of the decommissioning programme for 2005 4.29% and the annual return on the portfolio from the financial flow of the fund was 6.74%, which is 2.45% higher than it was set. The operation of the Fund in accordance with the law shall be audited annually by the audit firm chosen by the Fund's Management Board on the basis of a call for proposals. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees on all Fund documents, investment policy documents, the current year's financial plan, the final accounts and the business report for the last year. Finally, let me point out that the NEK Fund has been operating very successfully since 2003, in particular since the year 2003 when all outstanding liabilities have been settled by the contributor. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the legal and other provisions of certain obligations. It is in the current regime and will be stable and as such a reliable guarantor for the achievement of the final objective for which it was set up, that is, the safe decommissioning of the nuclear power plant and the construction of the IJG landfill and the construction of a landfill of low and medium-sized radioactive waste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The report was considered by the Commission for the supervision of public finances as a working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. I therefore give the floor to President Milan Petk to present the report of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u124	Thank you, Vice President. The report on the report of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing and Construction of NEK and on the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krška Nuclear Power Plant on the operation of the Fund for 2005 shall be forwarded to the National Assembly on the basis of Articles 39, 41 and 42 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At its 41st meeting of 18.5. and 43rd meeting, on 3.7., the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the report submitted by the Supervisory Committee of the Fund to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. For the introduction to the discussion, the chairman of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant briefly presented the report of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for 2005. He explained that the Supervisory Board has a basis for its operation in the Law on the Fund for the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and for the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and in Article 18 of the Fund's Statute. The Supervisory Board of the Fund shall consist of 10 members and shall be appointed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. It represents representatives of all political parliamentary parties. The Fund's task is to raise funds for the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, for safe storage and the final disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste. In the last period, the Fund has fully implemented all the legal obligations, as well as the financial plan and investment policy for 2005 previously endorsed by the Government. The results of the operation are also within the framework of legal powers. The required average return on the fund for 2005 was at least 4.29% and the fund exceeded and reached 6.74% in its operations. All activities related to the construction of the landfill shall be carried out according to the programmes and the operator of the activity shall be the Agency of ARAO, which shall also finance all costs. However, all the obligations of the ARAO Agency are financed from the funds of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The costs for Arao’s activities are increasing from year to year and will continue to be higher in the future when the landfill is started. The Republic of Slovenia will build its own landfill of medium and low radioactive waste for half of the waste, 50% of the Slovenian share in the NEK, with the help of the decommissioning fund. All the construction deadlines are within the envisaged framework, there is only a fear that those two municipalities that have now offered the site would withdraw from this location and that there might be a delay in meeting the deadlines. The Fund for the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant works properly and successfully, and Slovenia has all the resources available to enable a timely landfill of low and medium radioactive waste. All activities related to the Krško Nuclear Power Plant Fund will be carried out correctly, correctly, rationally and within the framework of the regulations. The Commission for Budgetary Control and Other Public Finances - as it was then called - therefore I quote a different name than today under the Rules of Procedure - has adopted the following conclusions following the consideration of this report: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia took note of the report of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and for the disposal of radioactive waste from the nuclear power plant on the operation of the Fund for 2005. Second conclusion: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Court of Auditors to revise the operation of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the Agency for Radioactive Waste, which is short-circuited by the ARAO. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Economy. Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u126	Honourable Vice-President of Parliament, Members and Members, President-in-Office of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of NEK! As a representative of the Government, I would simply agree with the findings of the report and also with the conclusions of the parent working body. I would add, however, that this Slovenian decommissioning fund is established on the basis of a special law and is also based on an interstate contract dealing with all issues related to the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. It should be noted that Croatia is also committed to establishing a similar fund under this Interstate Treaty. I am pleased to find that Croatia has also actually established it. That's new, and that's good. It will also, in an appropriate internationally acceptable manner, allude to the part of the funds needed to deal with the issue of the landfill as well as the decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant itself. So during the time of the active life of the facility, money is collected for when the object no longer gives added value to itself, and so when things need to be saved behind it. This is a major step forward from the last report that we have considered on this committee. And I want to warn you about that. Of course, the constant warnings of the Croatian side’s nuclear profession, the government, that this is all that must be done at last. The Croatian Parliament adopted this at its last meeting before the parliamentary elections in the autumn. Another important thing is that, for the time being, the landfill of nuclear low and medium-level radioactive waste is being effectively placed into a space where the State Spatial Plan or the State Location Plan is in the final stage. I hope that we can actually come to a solution in the following year, in accordance with Slovenian legislation, and thus close one very important issue related to the operation of this power plant, i.e. the disposal of what arises in this power plant. Under the Interstate Treaty, of course, this is a common obligation of both countries. Unless there is agreement between Slovenia and Croatia, Croatia shall take its part anywhere at the latest after the end of the life-cycle. I just want to point out that these issues are being resolved and that the issue of the future of the nuclear sector in the Republic of Slovenia and nuclear energy in the Republic of Slovenia is very, very much dependent on the closure of this issue. We are pleased that the funds are effectively collected, that this also creates all the economic preconditions for the construction itself, and this also gives the fund a new dimension when it is no longer just some investment fund, but it will also start with the implementation of the investment itself. I therefore believe that the existing legislation governing the operation of the Fund will also need to be upgraded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Dr Mitja Slavinec will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everyone. At the LDS Club, we are pleased to consider for the first time in the National Assembly a report on the operation of the Fund for the Decommissioning of the Krka Nuclear Power Plant in plenary session. This is how we report to the domestic and international public that the concern of the National Assembly and thus the whole country is to resolve this relatively sensitive area, such as the decommissioning of the Krška nuclear power plant, which includes both decommissioning and storage of products, i.e. radioactive waste, which is one of those areas that we give special importance to and is also in line with the environmental aspirations of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the financial report itself, we find that, according to the report, the business was expected. While returns 6.7% are slightly lower than they were in the best times when they reached about 10%, we are aware that the operation of the fund is limited to relatively safe investments and should not invest in speculative and risky investments and therefore such benefits as have been shown here. However, we would certainly like to see the trend of these years, or that in the next report, the trend will be reversed in the last two years, when it is turned down, and we will reach at least 10% again. The second part of this report is more worrying. The part relating to the relationship of the owner of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant, i.e. the Republic of Croatia, until its closure, to the obligations Croatia has in this regard and also to how it will be after the closure of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. We would also like to take a decision in due course on the construction of the second block of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Certainly in such a time that it would be realized before the first block closes. As the power plant continues to operate on this site, it is also less questionable, less risky and easier to store and manage nuclear waste economically. However, we point out what is most worrying about us in this report, as I have already said. This is that Croatia does not raise funds for the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and thus does not fulfil its obligations under the terms of the Interstate Treaty. The next thing is that Croatia does not cover half of the costs as well as all other activities related to the search and construction of a landfill for nuclear waste, i.e. low and medium-sized radioactive waste, and spent nuclear fuel. Croatia also does not cover half of the Agency’s operating costs. I am very pleased that Minister Vizjak informed the National Assembly in his presentation that the situation in Croatia has changed at this time. However, I would like to point out here that, although Croatia has now established an appropriate agency, it has adopted an appropriate legal act, it does not yet impose a financial obligation to revert to it, since it has so far taken care of the decommissioning of the nuclear plant both financially and organisationally, in particular, of the Republic of Slovenia. And certainly this contribution, this part of what has been done so far, needs to be adequately evaluated and, as it is said, Croatia's only now involving itself does not bind its obligations as co-owners of what it should have done by now. For this reason, we attach a warning to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the situation with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia needs to be regulated, that half of the compensation from the Republic of Croatia needs to be co-financed for this use and that Croatia has not already covered half of the costs incurred in the ARAO for the implementation of the activity. That's why we're certainly calling on the government to settle this situation. The second is also the arrangement for the payment of compensation due to limited use of space in the area of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. We certainly do not object to this compensation being paid, but we would like to point out that the source of funding is not right at the moment. The Agency is by no means the one who should cover these costs, this has to be settled from other sources. Once again, I stress that this compensation is certainly a proper payment to the people and the environment in which the nuclear plant is located and we support it in the future. We also propose that the interstate commission, led by Minister Vizjak from Slovenia and not by our information for two years, also be more active in coordinating this issue, and also in this way that the situation, particularly the non-payment of the Croatian side, will be resolved as soon as possible. Finally, let me point out why in the LDS Club this question is so important to us, so important to provide funds on the one hand for the safe closure of the first block of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and, on the other hand, to ensure that radioactive waste is stored safely and permanently. In view of all the security measures, especially in the case of newer type nukes and Western technology, the probability of any accident, at least in a way that could have a wider environmental impact, similar to that of Chernobyl, is unlikely. Nuclear weapons are now so safe that accidents are practically excluded. The only negative environmental impact is radioactive waste, which is what the power plant produces in its operation as a by-product. Electricity is very good and also the cheapest and also the most environmentally clean. And because this is the main and only impact on the environment, it seems so important to us that everything is really done here that nuclear power is acceptable to society is clean enough not to make citizens and citizens afraid of the operation of a nuclear power plant. That's the first aspect. The other is the financial aspect that I have already pointed out in the introduction. By no means can Slovenia pay the obligations of Croatia because the nuclear power plant is physically located in our area. It should have been the other way around, since when we gave the location, we have already contributed significantly more to this joint project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Ciril Testen will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenije.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u130	Honourable Chairman, Honourable Chairman of the Supervisory Committee, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that there is a sufficient legal and organisational basis and that sufficient financial resources have been collected to carry out and finance the work envisaged by the plan for the preparation of the programme for the decommissioning and disposal of low and medium-active waste. There are also conditions for the implementation of appropriate preparations for the arrangements for the storage of spent nuclear fuel. All activities shall be carried out in accordance with the plans of the Agency for Radioactive Waste, which shall also be financed by the Fund for the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Time delay could only occur if municipalities in Slovenia offered a location for a landfill and would withdraw from it in the future. We hope and we wish that no such thing would happen. In the New Slovenia Group, we were concerned about events in connection with the creation and financing of a fund for the decommissioning and storage of waste by the Croatian State. According to the information we currently have, things are improving in this area as well. We hope that they will be settled in the future, in accordance with the Treaty and the interests of Croatia and Slovenia. It is important that the Krško Nuclear Power Plant operates in accordance with the legislation so that it does not endanger the environment in which it is located and that we will have ready solutions when necessary. There are many guesses where the landfills should be, and whether it makes sense that landfills are being built for the same type of waste on the Slovenian and Croatian sides of the border. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that this will be a binding agreement between the two stakeholders, and that in addition to the best quality, it will be necessary to find the most rational solution, which will also be economically acceptable. There was also a comment by the members of the Supervisory Board that the Fund was unduly burdened by the payment of compensation for the limited use of premises in the area of municipalities where the conditions for the arrangement of landfills were being prepared. The decommissioning financing law, which was adopted in 1994, did not provide for the purpose of spending prescribed by the 2003 Government Regulation, namely the payment of compensation for limited use of premises. This Regulation shall expire in 2008. In order to continue to cover similar costs, it would be necessary to prepare an appropriate legal basis in the view of the Supervisory Committee. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the report of the Supervisory Committee for 2005 as well as the wish of the Supervisory Committee that the Court of Auditors revises the operation of the Fund of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the Agency for Radioactive Waste.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Today, one of the more active Members, Marjan Drofenik, will present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u132	Mr Vice-President, President-in-Office of the Supervisory Committee, Members and Members. The Commission for Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance has already considered the report of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste for 2005 in May and July this year, and is now under consideration by the National Assembly. The Krško nuclear power plant is important for Slovenia, without which Slovenia's energy dependence would be even greater, as we know that we are heavily dependent on imports of energy and energy. The report under consideration is directly linked to the operation of the power plant as the fund is responsible for the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant and for the storage and disposal of radioactive waste. Initially, the Fund was successful in 2005 because its return was higher than expected and stood at 6.74%, which is 2.5% higher than the planned return. The issue of the status and other legal relations between Slovenia and Croatia is also linked to the karst nuclear power plant, notably investments in the power plant, its exploitation and decommissioning. In our view, however, Slovenia must take care of the proper storage and decommissioning of radioactive wastes, which are part of its obligations. In particular, it is important that the Agency for Radioactive Waste ensure that all costs associated with the power plant and the storage of radioactive waste are accurately described. This will certainly be important documentation in further negotiations between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia regarding the fulfilment of obligations related to the karst power plant. Slovenia must also inform the future international community of the state of the nuclear power plant and also of the fulfilment of the obligations of the neighbouring country. At the same time, it must not take measures that would prejudge the taking of all commitments in areas for which the Republic of Croatia is equally responsible. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will confirm the report of the Supervisory Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! We have a fund to finance the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant in Slovenia. I just got off the phone with a fellow Member who we spent a few years with. The fund was established in 1994 and began working more or less formally four or five years ago. My main question that I wanted to check before saying the truth is whether the Croats have it because they've been getting energy since there's a nuclear power plant. They don't have it. They're supposed to start it now. It's also essentially the core of the content that I'm going to talk about. The fund is intended for the collection of funds for the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, for safe storage and for the disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste. As of 1 January, the Fund also became a liability for the payment of compensation for limited use of the premises in the municipalities of Krško, Brežice and Sevnica. Why? For the storage of low and medium-sized radioactive waste in the existing nuclear power plant area. As long as the citizens and the citizens of these congregations agree, as long as the Slovenians are so naive that we do so. However, I would like to recall that there is a contract between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia to start paying into the fund to finance the decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and to dispose of radioactive waste a certain amount, which my respected colleague from the previous term of office, Mr Kelemina, has also talked about. However, it is important that the report clearly and loudly states that we should not then work in a year or two, that we Members and Members did not hear or know this, I warn, for a magnetogram that the Republic of Slovenia will build a permanent landfill of low and medium-level radioactive waste by 2013. I hope you understand the point. It says, once again - that the Republic of Slovenia will build a permanent landfill of low and medium-sized radioactive waste by 2013. So that no one would then pretend in a year or two that they didn't know anything about it, that when we accept it today, and when you confirm that we are aware that you won't say it in three years, we never said it. So that Slovenia can build it? Don't you? We have also heard this story from the past. All activities are currently carried out according to the programmes. The carrier is supposed to be an ARAO. However, we do have some regulations that challenge this claim. The Joint Convention on the Safety of Nuclear Fuel Management and Radioactive Waste has also signed - I repeat - the neighbouring Republic of Croatia. Secondly, given that we are members or that we are the European Union, I stress that the European Union knows that Croatia does not yet have the appropriate fund, which was pointed out last year in Vienna. To prepare to work, I believe the Minister has received information, but until we see that this fund is established, and until we receive payment from this fund, no offense. I don't know. I don't know. And I don't believe until this fund is established until there is a payment from this fund, for a good purpose and for the purpose of protecting our environment. The Convention I am talking about does not have any instruments for sanctioning. So they will or will not accept. Now that they're getting closer to Europe, they're going to promise everything, but later on, as we're used to it, our neighbours, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and on my behalf, I'm sure we won't see any money from this fund or from this fund, because we could have gotten it by now, just like the Slovenians, and we're getting energy anyway, if I understand it. The resolution on the national programme is intended to be a separate project of the Republic of Slovenia and to fulfil its international obligations, with which we commit ourselves to dealing with waste safely. I believe in the State of the Republic of Slovenia that it will be done accordingly. But I think it would be best if I and my neighbors are doing the trash together, and I stress that together, I'm causing the trash to pay the same for both of us. At least get these trash out of here. Or we could both take care of some space the same way. The Interstate Treaty defines the relationship between Slovenia and Croatia and nicely states in the Commission's report that this should be followed, "It is necessary, we should, we should, we should, we should." It's a diction, a rhetoric from the past, about which many people have any concerns, and I have them in certain contexts, but not in certain specifics. The contract clearly sets out that both partners will agree on storage and site selection for low and medium-sized radioactive waste and later on for decommissioning. The Republic of Slovenia has not yet accepted any obligation to store this warehouse in the Republic of Slovenia, as explained by the Commission on Budgetary Control and Public Finance, which is contrary to the provisions I have read a little earlier in order to make the Republic of Slovenia undertake that it will have to and find a storage space by 2013. The two warehouses are supposed to be, the state contract determines that both partners will agree on this by a certain date. That's great. I totally agree. But 2013 is very close. And what is the deadline that the two countries will be up to, the electricity users that we are getting at the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, which is on the Slovenian side, so the atomic bomb is on the Slovenian side, where, who, and how much care it will take. We're talking about a potential location. From the point of view of good governance, and so on, the Republic of Slovenia has decided to seek a potential location on its territory. That's the seventh indent talking about it again. For the time being, this project is in such a phase that a potential location is sought. To seek out that we will be, to be, to be, to be and so on, I think that this moment should be to say bob beans and to do what we have to do so that we will not then respect our colleagues, I respect them, I want to be, if I cannot have the Sava region, I want to be a member of the Sava region, but I must be aware that I am also taking on certain obligations as regards the Nuclear Power Plant Krsko, as far as the storage of low and medium radioactive waste is concerned, and I want to have the same rights and duties as all those who use nuclear energy. He has also made a number of provisions that are clear, such as that the NEKs are paid by both sides, Slovenia and Croatia. If we look at the exact calculation of the payment of liabilities, it will be very difficult to convince me that both sides are paying them equally. Well, at least I can be completely ignorant, but I think we all have the same numbers or about the same numbers. The Monitoring Commission also adopted conclusions that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia would propose to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia to revise the operation of the Fund of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the Agency for Radioactive Waste and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia propose to participate in the broadcasting and payment of activities in the search for a landfill site. But such non-binding conclusions, respected colleagues and colleagues, are in fact non-binding to us, and even less non-binding to those who need to be equally, I stress, equally, to bear good and bad. They also have one song, which Croatians say is "for better or for worse". This applies to all of us. Let us be careful what we talk about today and what we accept. The obligations are the same for everyone. Our fund is working and reporting, their fund is not yet established.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u135	Mrs Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleague, colleagues, Chairman of the Supervisory Board! The whole problem of our only Krško nuclear power plant is extremely complex and therefore requires thorough attention and continuous and active monitoring of the situation in this area. In addition to the unfinished relations with neighbouring Croatia, which do not meet all their obligations to the Krška Nuclear Power Plant, a particular problem is the process of decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and all accompanying activities. In order for all of this to be as risky and safe as possible for human life and health in order to replace the said use of space and to provide suitable locations for the deposit of waste nuclear material, it is necessary to provide and manage high financial resources to this end. This task shall be entrusted to the Fund whose report of the Supervisory Committee shall be subject to the consideration of the current point of the meeting of the National Assembly. It follows from the report that the findings of the Fund's Supervisory Committee on Financial Operations are positive that investments have taken place in accordance with the Fund's fund-raising and investment policy strategy, that the Fund is acting in accordance with the rules and in this respect has successfully carried out its tasks. In order to be able to positively assess the entire scope of the Fund in future, in our DeSUS Group we agree with the proposed, although in this final form, somewhat selected decisions adopted by the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr Stane Pajk will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u138	Dear colleagues! The Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and for the disposal of radioactive waste was established by the implementation of the Law on the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krška Nuclear Power Plant on 17 December 1994. On 11 January, the Fund was registered with the District Court in Krske. The Fund's task is to raise funds for the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, for the safe storage and final disposal of spent materials and radioactive waste. The National Assembly appointed the Fund's Supervisory Committee on 23 February 2005 and today we are considering the report of the Fund's Supervisory Committee. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we have carefully reviewed the report, which shows that the Fund works well, successfully and follows the purpose of which it was set up. Slovenia has all the resources that will allow it to build a landfill of low and medium radioactive waste in time for our half of the waste produced from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, unless both municipalities, Krško and Brežice, cancel the site for a landfill of low and medium radioactive waste. In any event, the proper functioning of the Fund is important for the local community and even Slovenia, since the proper functioning of the Fund is guaranteed that €63 000 921 million will be raised according to the plan in the Fund's account by 2022. With this money raised, the fund will justify the purpose of setting up. Of course, the second story is the collection of the other half of the resources for which the Republic of Croatia is responsible for the decommissioning of NEK and for the storage of the other half of the radioactive waste originating from NEK, but this is not the case with this report. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support the proposed decisions proposed on the Home Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u139	Thank you. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and once again a good day. The Group of Social Democrats is in no way satisfied with the proposal for decisions that we were actually forced to adopt at the Commission's meeting and to propose to the National Assembly for admission. The majority of the Commission's oversight, budget and other public finances at the time, were such that it was not possible to support the draft decisions proposed by the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and for the disposal of radioactive waste. This is because in 2003 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a regulation setting out how to calculate and also how to allocate funds for compensation for the limited use of space near the Krško nuclear power plant. Instead of determining the part of the electricity price produced and sold at the Krsko nuclear power plant, these funds, i.e. as a source of funds, covered a simple compensation in the account of the decommissioning fund of the nuclear power plant. The fact is, it's illegal. Why? Because the Fund Establishment Act makes it very clear, in Article 3, why funds collected in the Fund's account are used. It specifically says if I can read it; "The funds collected under this law are used for the safe storage and final disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and for the safe decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant." The fact is that the funds are now transferred to the Agency for Radioactive Waste, which is carrying out all the procedures related to the search and final determination of the site for the landfill of low and medium radioactive waste in Slovenia. If I understand correctly, only for the Slovenian part. But it doesn't even matter here. The remaining funds, which are much higher, are currently in the fund’s account or are being invested in safe investments, long-term secure investments, over 16 billion, the former 16 billion tolars. We will not recalculate, I think that this is quite large enough data - that it is clear that it is very wrong if a large part of the funds that all citizens or all electricity users are paid within the framework of the electricity price sold by Gen-Electric or what it is already called, are allocated to the fund, that almost 500 million dollars per annum is allocated to compensation for the limited use of space. Surely the Government should, in 2003, now on the basis of a call, and twice already calls on the Fund's Supervisory Board to propose to the National Assembly an amendment to the Financing Act or the Fund to finance the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, where it would determine that one of the purposes of the funds raised in accordance is also compensation for the limited use of space. If the Government considers that this is not the right approach, they should determine that the price of electricity from the Krško nuclear power plant for the purpose of fundraising for the limited use of space is found elsewhere than in this agreement. The fact is that in this case, resources that are separated from one kilowatt hour of electricity should be increased in order to provide additional resources to compensate for the limited use of space. However, on the Commission, some members were not prepared to adopt a decision reiterating the proposal of the Fund's Supervisory Committee that the Government should, because in any event this regulation expires next year, say that something will have to be done - and I must say that we will not just look at it calmly if the Government simply repeats the adoption of a regulation that is illegal. The fact is that all citizens have paid for the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant, but we cannot possibly be prepared to pay what the nuclear power plant should pay for itself, because this is a limited use of space because of the operation of the nuclear power plant, but not because of the future construction of a warehouse of low and medium-sized radioactive waste in Slovenia. One more thing. When the moment comes to build this landfill, if the theoretical nuclear power plant no longer works, but would be dismantled and the radioactive parts stored in this landfill, then the moment will come when we would no longer be able to collect resources from electricity for limited use of space, because there will be limited use of space at the time or around this landfill. It would therefore be logical to foresee how we will provide funds to compensate for the limited use of the area around the landfill in 15, 20 or 30 years. It is important to know that these are actions, events that are not just in front of the nose, but slightly further and should be considered on long lines. It is certainly not right that we have now covered four years of funding for the construction of the landfill and dedicated them to ongoing transfers in fact. And we can't call it anything else. I think that the Government must consider this, but we have not proposed an amendment to the conclusions proposed by the Commission, because we knew that the coalition would not be prepared to accept any amendments because it is not prepared to accept the opposition's amendments. However, I think that this is already something that will be recorded in the minutes, in the magnetogram and that, I hope, is a minister that is not, because this is just an irrelevant topic, that the Minister will write down that something in this area needs to be done, however, to act legally and in the interests of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u141	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the report and conclusions. Mr. Drago Koren, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u142	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. I believe that this report by the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and for the disposal of radioactive waste is an important report, which we are considering here today. First of all, I would like to commend this report and, above all, I would like to see these proposals of the Supervisory Committee, which are listed here at the end of this report, taken seriously by all those responsible. Above all, I am thinking here about the matters of neighbouring Croatia, not only Slovenia, because I think we will be able to handle the matter quite well in Slovenia, as far as this is concerned. I think that awareness of all nuclear safety and the needs we need to do in this regard is at a high enough level, but there will probably be a lot of negotiations with neighbouring Croatia if we want the neighbouring country to meet its obligations under this heading as well. I think that in Slovenia we are currently doing well and successfully in this area. We know that we need electricity from the Krka nuclear power plant and that we will probably need more of it. To think about a possible new or, as I would say, another nuclear power plant, I think, doesn't make sense until we have all the things connected to the existing Krška nuclear power plant, actually provided, stored these radioactive wastes and just decommissioning. Finally, I would just like to say once again that all attention must be paid to the relationship with Croatia, so that Croatia's affairs can also be made as necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u143	Thank you. Mrs. Pecan, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Everything shows that nuclear energy is extremely popular with us by the number of Members and Members present, and also by the willingness to discuss such an important document as the report of the Fund's Supervisory Committee, which was also not considered necessary by the Committee on the Economy, which is also the parent working body for this area, despite the fact that in 2005 the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances proposed to consider the 2004 and 2003 report did not consider it necessary to consider this report, nor did it consider the 2005 report. It seems that things that we know have awakened and continue to stir up a lot of opposition and skepticism in neighbouring countries, that the Krška nuclear power plant certainly does not have even between citizens and citizens of Slovenia few opponents and people who would like to decommission it as soon as possible, but we know that this moment is the most environmentally safe way of producing electricity, especially because hydroelectric power plants are also causing major changes in the microclimate and in the environment, while the nuclear power plant with its own really hot water that is being pumped into the Sava, a relatively small polluter or environmental burden, that we are not talking about judging from its operation among one of the most secure nuclear power plants in Europe, each of them directly at the Danube Nuclear Safety Agency. Here I would just like to say that it seems really pointless for us to spend resources, because the fact is that sooner or later we will have to increase the amount or share of the price of a kilowatt-hour when we come to the need for a landfill of low and medium-sized nuclear waste, which will also be generated by the decommissioning of a nuclear power plant, and that this money will then have to be provided at once. Now we're wasting, but we're not thinking about the future. And I think that this decision has certainly not been prudent and sober since 2003 and that the insistence of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on continuing to cover compensation for limited use of space from funds intended for something purely different, of course, makes no real sense. Here, as a member or Vice-President of the Commission, we would say that, interestingly, at the following meeting, we have received a revised position of the Supervisory Committee, which is probably under the pressure of government representatives, but the Supervisory Committee and the Management Board are responsible only to the National Assembly and no one else, to change their position and not to insist that the Government should ensure the adoption of legislation as soon as possible, which would allow for the provision of compensation for limited use of space. I think that this is in every way a very unusual move, and I must say that I am firmly on the side of the members of the Supervisory Board, and I congratulate them that they have been persistent enough to wake at least a few members of the National Assembly to think about how to move things forward. I hope that the Government will prepare changes to the law or, after all, it can provide this compensation from the 2008 budget in some way, but not find the funds of the decommissioning and decommissioning fund of the Krška nuclear power plant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I am debating not because we were all on average just now, but because I have long prepared for the debate and I want to say that we have a quality document in hand, a quality report by the Fund's Supervisory Board for 2005. In fact, the Chairman of the Fund's Supervisory Board, as well as all members, is commended here. The report shall be duly drawn up on the basis of financial statements, which are structured differently, and shall consist of balance sheets as at 31 December 2005. Here are also the income and expenditure accounts of other users, the accounts of financial claims and investments, the financial accounts of the financial year 2005 and other documents relating to the operation of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. The report clearly shows that the Fund is achieving the objectives for which it was established. Among other things, the investment objectives of the Fund are achieved, as shown in the report, the Fund must ensure the return on capital at a minimum of 4,29% per year, with the investment security ensured, this is achieved, with the funds collected must ensure the implementation of all stages of the decommissioning of the Krka Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste. This is also ensured through the report. Some of you have already stopped by, and I am also concerned that we simply do not have enough happy hands to talk to neighbouring Croatia. I know that great efforts have been made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but it is obvious that the Government of Croatia will have to co-finance half of the compensation for the limited use of space in the field of Krško nuclear power plant. Currently, this cost, as we know, is paid only by Slovenia or the competent institutes. I am concerned that Croatia has not yet established its decommissioning fund, although it should have done so long ago. It is concerned that Croatia does not cover half of the costs incurred by the radioactive waste agency in finding the location of the common landfill for medium and low radioactive waste from the Krško nuclear plant in Slovenia. On the other hand, I am pleased that Brussels is constantly informed about this issue. He also knows the positions of Slovenia. Slovenia is also constantly focused on accession negotiations with Croatia, taking the right positions and having a clear picture of what this means for energy supply in this region, security of energy supply, as well as nuclear security in general for the whole of Europe. These are the tasks that are open. There is also an open question before us how in the future with nuclear energy in Slovenia or in general with electricity in Slovenia. We will have to make a long-term balance of electricity sooner or later, and then probably, in my opinion, we will also have to decide as soon as possible for an additional block of nuclear power plant, which we will probably have after experience, unfortunately, such as they are with neighbors, we will probably have to finance ourselves. Thank you again for the report. We propose that this practice remains, that we deal with this report at the plenary session of the National Assembly, that we are aware of what is happening with the Fund and that I support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr. Stan Pike, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Today, we have a report from the Supervisory Board on the table. This report is very high-quality and it can be seen that members and also the Chairman of the Supervisory Board are trying to make the report as it should be shown in the figures transparently, transparently. And it's just a report as a form. But it's more important than that. The content is that the Fund works well to add additional funds, raise additional funds and create the money that will be allocated for half, I stress, because there was a lot of heard earlier, half of what is being created in Kršek. This is half the fuel, waste from fuel and also low and medium-level radioactive waste, as well as half the nuclear power plant when the time for decommissioning comes. Only half. The other half must be taken care of by Croatia. This is what the Interstate Treaty, which was concluded with the Republic of Croatia, states. I read this contract myself, and we've heard criticism before that the government has to do and do everything it has to do. I can tell you that in some articles this contract is bad. For example, I am most disturbed by Article 10, paragraph 7, which states that Croatia must take care of the money for decommissioning two years after the closure of the nuclear power plant. That's not good. We're trying, Slovenia has taken care of its work, it's trying, it's raising money. This money is a guarantee, as I said earlier, a guarantee for the local environment, which has somehow accepted between the nuclear power plant and also for Slovenia, that once this right environmental solution will be resolved. As it must be, by all world standards. This fund is therefore significantly more important than it seems at first sight. This fund should therefore be monitored. The current supervision has shown that the Fund works very well, which is commendable. Of course, it is also likely that the oversight committee appointed by the National Assembly has done its work properly. And I, as a native, can only give this fund laudable words and I think it will also have to be in the future, because by 2022 this fund will operate, raise funds, make sure that no furniture will later be allocated to these funds, maybe these funds have been diverted somewhere else, temporarily, etc. It's a lot of money, and this money has to be raised at this time, so it'll be ready when the time comes for decommissioning. For half, for half of the Slovenian part, for the other half, for the other half, we'll see. I think the state contract will hold and the Croats will also provide this money two years after the closure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u149	Thank you. Does Mr. Kelemina want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Perhaps because time allows for only a few brief answers to the concerns you have expressed by Members and Members. I think the debate was right. Perhaps only what has been mentioned in almost all Members and Members' groups that this unfortunate regulation may not be the best solution. I must point out that this Regulation has been adopted by the previous Government and that the solutions proposed in this Regulation are being implemented, both from the previous Government and from that Government, and that we all subsequently find, in some ways, that there is no need for any change at this stage, since the provisions of this Regulation are in fact being implemented 100%. Many questions or concerns were raised as to the amount of funds collected by the end of the plant's operation, whether sufficient resources would be raised by the end of the nuclear power plant. Let me remind you that there is a decommissioning programme that is revised every five years by the Interstate Treaty and re-adopted by the Interstate Commission and then confirmed by the Government. Every five years, this programme is to be revised and every five years thereafter determined, including on the basis of technological solutions to the landfill and all other matters, or the level of the contribution still corresponding to the final amount of all the funds collected necessary for decommissioning. Therefore, it is a safeguard not to remain in today's contribution, which is, as you know, 0.003 euros per kilohour of electricity, but then this amount of contribution may also be increased if it is found that the assets were insufficient for final decomposition during the period of operation of the power plant. As for this important issue, which you also mentioned, regarding the coverage of one half of Croatia's costs for compensation for limited use of space. To say the least, I would very much like to take this into account in order for Croatia to join in paying this half for limited use of space, but the existing 2003 law or the Interstate Treaty does not allow this. And if this law does not allow or an interstate contract, then Croatia will not settle this proportion. This is our desire, and perhaps the suggestion to the government, to try to speak in this direction, too, your suggestion. That is how we agree, but we will probably not succeed because the Interstate Treaty does not allow it. Maybe in the end, I'd just like to give you something that seems important to me. The Supervisory Board shall work at meetings, three times a year or so, only three times a year after two to three hours per meeting, a total of approximately eight hours per year. Why am I saying that? I say because there have been many cases of incorrect data in the media, about the work of the Supervisory Board and also my presidential functions. Let me just say that, as Chairman of the Supervisory Board, not only do I work in meetings, because I am responsible for other matters, i.e. preparation of materials, meetings, coordination, meeting management, participation in meetings of the Management Board, they also invite me to a meeting of the Management Board, so that I can attend their work, because otherwise I cannot monitor it, I can follow the documents, but it is better that I am also present, I am not always. I am also present in reporting, both on the Commission for Budgetary Control, even on the Council of State, here today in the National Assembly and let me say that for all these activities, I do not receive any additional payment. My work consists of a total of about 1000 hours per year or 100 hours per year plus transportation, which I have many times to do and for this work I get about 400 euros per year. If I count in hours, it's about 4 euros an hour. I am not complaining about this, I just want to tell the National Assembly and the public that this is not a huge resource that the Supervisory Board is spending on its work, but that these funds are extremely modest. Let me also say that I paid the exam for the supervisor, who "costed" 400 euros, and the other members were paid from the fund. I didn't take it. In short, so much for the truth. I would also like the National Assembly to adopt this report and continue to exercise control over the funds of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u151	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We will decide on the decisions of the home working body in accordance with the meeting's timetable today in the context of the half-hour vote, which is at 4:20 p.m. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 4:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u152	Dear Members, please calm down and take your seats. We continue with the meeting of the assembly. Please check the functioning of your voting devices, as we are moving to the vote. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination Since no amendments have been tabled in the second reading to the amended law, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled and we are therefore moving to a decision on the proposal for a law in accordance with Article 139 of the Rules of Procedure. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 10. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Once again, do the voting devices work? [[No, no, ……]] Then I interrupt the session in five minutes and ask the technical services to check the voting device that the Member considers not to be working.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I'm informed that the error has been removed and the meeting continues. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Administrative Procedure Act. Since no amendments were tabled in the second reading to the amended proposal, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, for 58, for 12. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the termination of item 2 of the agenda - second reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on corporate income tax. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, for 51, for 20. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Fees. Since no amendments have been tabled in the second reading to the amended law, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving to a decision on the draft law in accordance with Article 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, for 61, for 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - the consideration of the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, for 50, for 25. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law amending the Law on Privatisation of the Slovenian Ironworks. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on the Privatisation of the Slovenian Ironworks is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm opening the application. Mr. Koren, please. He's quitting. Mr. Contic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will oppose the proposal of the labour force that the proposal for a law is not a suitable basis for further consideration. Already in the introduction, on behalf of the applicants, we explained the reasons why this law had been drafted and, on behalf of the Group of Members, explained why we would vote against this decision. In the debate, it was clear that we had acted demogosically, that we were pronouncing the law retroactively into the law and that it could not be done that the law would end in the Constitutional Court. We wanted to draw attention mainly to the injustices that have occurred to employees, former employees and pensioners within the Slovenian steel industry. We wanted to draw attention to the unwise and harmful sale of the Slovenian steel industry, which we sold for EUR 105 million, and the profit this year will exceed EUR 60 million, which means that they will be able to settle the purchase with a two-year profit, a 55% share in the Slovenian steel industry. In doing so, the state has concluded a bad business, a bad business. For 190 euros per share, she sold her share to the Russian Cox. So they sold it for 190 euros, although now some of the prices, which we will be able to talk about later on, show that much more could be endured. It is true that they could have chosen the most favourable bidder at that time, but it is not true that it was necessary to sell the Slovenian steel industry to the best bidder at the same price as it was sold at that time. And rightly so now small shareholders demand that their injustice be rectified, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that they get more for shares. [[...]] The law, as it is now, does not allow this without the changes we are proposing. So we want to have a few answers to our questions, and we thought, we were confident that by adopting or rejecting this decision we could discuss this in the second and third readings. However, I am so afraid that today this proposal for a decision will be adopted. The Group of Ambassadors will not be able to support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u156	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the Slovenian National Party, we will essentially follow the wishes of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at the moment he said that this Government would go to war, to some battle against the tycoons in this country. It seems to me that this marriage is some first step, some first nest, against some tycoon that needs to be disabled. Once again, the proposal for a law, as proposed by Social Democracy, is not a good one, but it is the basis for us to start talking. We've been able to see that we need instructions on how to do "acceptance." The first step of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was to take the book "ABC Acceptance" into her hands and so went to the Slovenian ironworks. In this way or in such a "ABC acceptance" in the Slovenian National Party, we will not agree in any way, so we will vote against the decision as proposed by the mother labour body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u157	Thank you. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. 43 votes against 27. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda - this is the report of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and for the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant on the operation of the Fund for 2005. First of all, we turn to the first decision, which reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia took note of the report of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and for the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant on the operation of the Fund for 2005." There is no need to vote on the decision because the National Assembly has already taken note of the report. We therefore move on to a decision on the second proposal for a Commission decision, which reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia to revise the operation of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant Fund and the Radioactive Waste Agency." We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. The vote was 68, against 1. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are now moving to the third decision of the Commission, which reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Fund of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant to participate in the broadcasting and payment of activities in the search for a site for landfill and medium-sized radioactive waste carried out by the Agency. For radioactive waste." We vote on the proposed decision. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 3. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act. We continue to decide on the amendment tabled, moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities' Group of Ambassadors to Article 3. Mrs. Possonec, please, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u158	The Italian and Hungarian national communities are concerned about the proposed legal arrangements for the use of language in the labelling and advertising of goods and services or non-labelling. And I don't know that after 19 years of democracy why it is necessary for nationality to be afraid and currently afraid, even of this marriage proposal. The proposal for an amended Article 3 of this Act is understood as discrimination between the legal standards already adopted and the implementation of minority international legal obligations in Slovenia. Such a solution, which is not in accordance with the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, leads to a reduction in the level of legal provisions already adopted in the field of the protection of indigenous national communities. I therefore invite my fellow Members to accept, in this case, the amendments of the Group of Members of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. I'll support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Roberto Battelli in his own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr. President. The basic text of the law adopted by the Committee, which this amendment amends, is, in fact, completely unclear or avoids determining exactly how these languages are used in relation to consumer protection. This series of standards with these paragraphs, as adopted, also means avoiding a decision of the Constitutional Court. This is not the only case of legal uncertainty as regards the use of minority languages in Slovenia. The country of Slovenia keeps its obligations regarding the languages of the national communities as a serpent's foot. The Law on State Administration does not apply in practice. Not even after the novel. The Rules of Procedure are not implemented and many other standards concerning languages are unclear or not implemented. I think that Parliament should not be indifferent to these facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u161	Thank you. Since he's more interested, I'm opening applications for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Gantar, please. [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u162	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, I will state my position on how we will vote. The entire parliamentary group will support this amendment. Not just for the reasons stated by colleague Maria Pozsonec and Mr Roberto Battelli. But also because we want to protect Slovenian language in our own country. Because this text excludes the text that is being amended. It excludes Slovenian as a language used in our country. I warn Members and Members, regardless of which political group you are judging, that by agreeing to the text "you can easily understand the language of everyone" does not mean the equation of Slovenian. I therefore believe that this amendment urgently needs to be supported and voted for. In order to be able to read descriptions, instructions or, whatever the case, on products that do not belong to harmonised European Union legislation in their own mother tongue. I would like to read the instructions on these products in Slovenian, not in any other language of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Dear President! Let me put it this way. The amendment, as written, could be understood as a struggle of minority representatives for the Slovenian language. But I can understand him differently. So let me put it this way. We will not oppose this amendment in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. It's one thing. If we read the amendment to the end, which says, "where the Italian and Hungarian national communities live autonomously, as well as in Italian and Hungarian." I find this part unacceptable. Unacceptable until both governments, both Italian and Hungarian, have done the same thing in their territory for Slovenian citizens. Half an hour ago, I received a letter, a letter from a Slovenian who lives in Tržaška and suggested to me, "Support the law, but only when it shakes Italian citizens and citizens." The Consumer Protection Act should enter into force only a day after the Italians and Hungarians have done the same. However, given that the Government has proposed one very stupid proposal, which is understandable to all according to their principles, this amendment is not to be opposed, however, Slovenia is an official language both in the European Union and in this country. That is why we will not oppose this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u165	Thank you. It's still an interest. I therefore reopen my application for explanations of vote on my behalf. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u166	I'll support the amendment. Simply because it realizes the rights and interests of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and not the Republic of Hungary or Italy. Citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who speak Italian and Hungarian. So it is simply a matter of ensuring equality between our citizens and our citizens, who share with us and the Slovenian majority of the same right and duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u168	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I will, of course, support the amendment. The main reasons are that the amendment is related to equality of citizens and their equality and, of course, also to allow all citizens to exercise their rights throughout the territory of the State of Slovenia. The other thing that is even more important, of course, is that with this amendment we also protect Slovenian as well as the language that is supposed to be understandable in the Republic of Slovenia. This is some confusion that the billmaker wrote with that remarkable syntagma about the understandable language. In Slovenia, of course, there are a number of understandable languages. But above all, it is assumed that Slovenian is the language that everyone should understand. This is measured, if not by second, at least by small children. Then the big ones can talk a lot of other things. Many here also understand English, German and any other official languages in the European Union. But if we don't protect our own language, it's the only language in which we're sovereigns, then the sovereignty of the Fuch will go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u169	Thank you. Anyone else? One more hand. I'm reopening the application because more deadlines have turned up. Go ahead and sign in.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u170	In my own name, I would say that we are actually defending your Slovenian language because almost everyone speaks English, German, and it will be very nice if they speak English here in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr. Gulic, you've done this before. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Madam President! In my own name. In fact, not a question because I know that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia cannot answer questions, but merely a question. When it comes to toys for kids that say plus nine, it's from the ninth year forward. In this case, these kids can read, they can understand. But in this case, if he does not give instructions in Slovenian, but in some - after us, we have heard quite a few polyglots in the debate about this law - an understandable language. Some understand German and some have debated it here. Some people understand French, and they used to hang around here when we were discussing it. But kids aren't polyglots when they're nine. The most understood are domestic, Slovenian official European language. We can't find a way to understand this toy. Then we have a problem, Your Honor. But that's when we have a problem. Mr. Ziherl, you were a polyglot at the time of the debate. But these kids aren't, and we have a problem here. A child at the age of nine doesn't speak English. But he masters Slovenian, and when he looks for instructions, he does not find Slovenian. Then what? Did we do good or did we do bad? I don't think so. That is why I will not oppose this amendment because it does specify Slovenian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u173	Thank you. I can still see the hand. Just one hand. That's another wish. Here you go, Mrs. Zgyner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. If I read the basic article 3 of the law, I must conclude that this is another example of laws that we have adopted in this House. We could almost say that Slovenians are specialists in writing and adopting irregular laws, such laws that in practice cause confusion. And I am afraid that, as long as there is a doctrine as it is in the bill, we will actually be able to speak or the responsible ones will say, "Yes, as the declaration is written in one of the 23 European languages, which, given that it is an official language of the European Union, must also be understood in our country." Why don't we just write a clear and loud Slovenian language? Are we ashamed of the words of the Slovenian language? I ask you, about as in the Domestic Violence Prevention Act: "Why don't we write down a clear diction that each of you will know that there must be, say, a declaration outstanding in the Slovenian language?" I'll support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u175	Thank you. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. 25 votes against 47. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. And we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendment was not adopted in the second reading to the supplementary proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. I see the hands and open an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the members of the groups. Mr. Juban. [[No, no, ……]] Mr Barovich, on behalf of the House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u176	I think it was very clear from my colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš that the third article was very unclear. With this amendment, he would be clarified. Because colleagues and colleagues have not adopted this simple sentence and understanding of the content, we will oppose the adoption of this law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll vote against the law. Many debates have been completely misleading here, as the Slovenian language is not in any way threatened by this text, which is likely to be adopted now. What is at stake is minority languages. Again and again. The amendment adopted by the Committee, which introduces the second paragraph, further relativises this because it is passed on to a ministerial rule, the first paragraph of this Article, which also speaks of operations in the languages of the national communities. By knowing what one substance means and what its destruction means, first through the legislative process and then in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u179	Thank you. Is there any other interest in your personal name? I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my personal behalf. Please sign in. Mrs. Possonec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u180	I won't support the law either. I have a saying: "To a lady of our own free will, we never get that one back. But for which we fight, it is possible to get back someday."
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. I will not support myself, as will my fellow Members of the parliamentary group. The reason for that is quite something. Far from anything being threatened. The Slovenian language, ladies and gentlemen, is at risk in this case. Why is he in danger? As the law states, when labelling products, it is necessary to provide the consumer with the necessary information regarding the characteristics, sales conditions of use and destination of the product. This information must be in a language which can be understood by consumers in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Who's the consumer? The consumer is also children, my dear. We'll get there. And children at the age of ten, nine, eleven, twelve are not yet polyglots, like Comrade Zicherl. But they learn mainly the Slovenian language. And since they are learning Slovenian, the declaration must in any case be in the Slovenian language. Why does it have to be? Because when they buy a Kinder egg, it says, it's not appropriate for children under the age of six. Next, it says "do not throw the plugs" - colleague Ziherl will translate to you, for those of you who do not understand - but children do not understand this, respected colleagues and colleagues! And here's the worry about the Slovenian language. The consumer is not only a colleague of Ziherl, but also children who can go to the store alone. And in that case, we have a problem. And we are afraid of this problem in the Slovenian National Party and that is why we will not support the law or such a stupid dictatorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u183	Thank you. I ask Members and Members not to follow the example that you have just seen and that you are not offensive. Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u184	Dear President, esteemed colleagues, colleagues! The law we are talking about not only brings this linguistic confusion, but also a series of good solutions that in some ways protect the consumer more than ever. That's why I'm going to support the marriage. But right now, I'm predicting that this part is going to be recast as soon as possible. Slovenia is an official language in Slovenia. Most people have an understandable language and, of course, we cannot just drop it. If we look at what is understandable in Slovenia, then we can quickly get to the former military or what we called Serbo-Croatian and more because it is understandable. But that's not what this is about. In Slovenia it is said that Slovenia is the one that kind of marks us. After all, the language is what we built the nation in the 19th century, and in some ways you can defend it forever and everywhere. You just missed it this time, and you don't want to admit it. I hope that when the law changes, when the law is amended, we can hear it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u186	Thank you. There is another reason why I will vote against it. And that's what it is about product labelling. This text, which was recently endorsed or adopted by the rejection of the amendment. Actually, he's not expecting anything. We will not have this in the languages of the national communities in Slovenia. However, since 2000, the ratified European Charter on Minority and Regional Languages says that it is necessary to do so where possible and where possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u187	Thank you. I am reopening the debate to explain the vote on my own behalf. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I won't support the law. Because I estimate that the Government's proposal with a very strange definition "a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia understands the language is simply a humiliation of the Slovenian language". Slovenia is the official language of the EU and let us write it down in laws. Moreover, it is also true to respect the Constitution and the rights of minorities. I regret that if I return to the amendment that was previously tabled, I will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u190	Nor will I support the law itself, because it is unfair and offensive to all three official languages in Slovenia. Both to Slovenian and to Italian and Hungarian, because it is unprincipled and I believe it is constitutionally controversial. I don't know if anyone's gonna complain. But we can certainly expect that if the appeal is made, the Constitutional Court will annul this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u192	Thank you. I'll back the law myself. Of course not. For in yesterday's debate, it turned out that it would also be necessary to write in all three languages on the most banal products that we have used thousands of times and thousands of times, and we know how to use them. The talk was about baking powder. I can tell you that there are thousands and thousands of instructions for use. They're called cook recipes. Then it was about the laundry powder. There is also one of the most basic instructions for use. That's the meter, the whole or the half. Now, let's talk about polyglottical abilities. First, I would translate the name of my colleague Zagorec to Zagorec to make everything Slovenian. Around the languages I can comfort him that I speak actively English and German and speak Russian and Italian. But this is not the main purpose. What do I miss about consumer protection? More clearly the origin of the goods. Ariel should have written on the powder that it was made in the Czech Republic. That's a second quality recipe. But if it's made in Germany, it's a first-class recipe. In addition, for example, Nutella from Poland is worse than Italy. That's what I miss about the product. And we are also warned that if we go to the Müller store we get the original goods. If we go to Mercator, we get a second-rate edge that only has a name and quality is sometimes questionable. What I'd least expect would be at least 10% cheaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr Zagorac, there is no replica, but whoever wants to discuss it, I'm giving him another chance to apply. Do you have a procedural proposal? But, Mr Zagorac, a procedural proposal that there will be no reply to the replica and that there will be no controversy. Here you are, Mr Zagorac, you have the possibility of a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Madam President! I think I have three minutes to come up with a procedural proposal. My procedural proposal, and I will design it in the beginning and then explain, I would like to ask my respectable colleague Ziherl, who probably used pears at the time of learning foreign languages.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u195	Mr. Zagorac, this is a controversy. Second warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u196	Okay. I'd like to ask Mr. Ziherl. [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u197	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I will vote after reflection and after hearing the explanations of vote. I will vote against the law. At first, I thought I'd hold off. Because I believe that the other parts of this law do not have so many mistakes in themselves. The error is mainly and only in Article 3. And why am I voting against it? Because, as it appears, some interpret this law as a law that can even talk about discrimination or the defamation of the Member States of the European Union, which can make worse products than other Member States. So the old members are doing good quality. New members are doing poor quality products with the same name. I don't think we can afford that. That is also why I want this law not to be adopted. In such a way that the Government can clearly write that the Consumer Protection Act is not intended to protect consumers from embarrassment in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u199	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Now I don't know, it's probably a little personal. Look, I don't understand, the term "declaration" means "explanation" in the Slovenian language. And regardless of the polygonity, "io parlo italiano", "ich sprche Deutsch", "I speak English", "my parle francais". But the declaration, clarification, is required in Slovenian language, ladies and gentlemen! Since, after all, you can be polyglots a hundred times, what you buy must be written. If I illustrate in jest, I speak for the Slovenian language and the Slovenian language, you know. If you buy a condom, I can read if it says "XXL." But that's not what this is about. It's a declaration to clarify what's on the flour, what's on the product. Wherever the product comes from, even though it is European, it has to be written in Slovenian to know what the ingredients are. And we're probably not all familiar with Latin. This can only be clarified by physicians who read on certain medicines. There must also be this clarification on medicines. So, we are concerned that clearly and absolutely every product in Slovenia is written next to, I don't know, Italian, Austrian, German, French. I don't care what language. 23 is European, in Slovenian, pika and end! And that is the essence of today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u201	Thank you. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. 50 votes to 22. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda - re-decision on the Trade Act. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Check-in is on. Please. Mr. President, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the law in re-decision on the law. Especially with satisfaction and approval, because it is an agreement that we will make the most controversial determination where the terms of employment in trade are being addressed, that the Government or the Ministry will prepare an appropriate amendment and that we will also adopt this provision through coordination and adoption in the National Assembly, which will be acceptable and will, of course, provide good conditions for work in different sectors. So in the various activities of our trade. As it is said, we will vote in favour of the Group of Members on a re-decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u203	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u204	Thank you very much again for your word. We will not support the Trade Act in the Slovenian National Party. The fact is simple. This is from the previous discussions, which took place at the home labour body also at the meeting of the National Assembly. Last but not least, today we're talking about a veto that was voted into law. Minister Vizjak, I'll say, missed the warning as well. The amendment was tabled on the home working body, where we warned Members that the deregulation of professions also meant the degradation of Slovenian workers and workers. You know, by taking away or deleting the minimum educational standards, we also deprived them of the minimum rights that workers in the store have. I am afraid that this means, as there is no longer any formal education required, that the minimum standards concerning wages will not be required after the new. This law is a law that is clearly on the side of capital, employers, traders. When I listened to the meeting when someone, I think, was a representative of the SLS, said that this law should be adopted in such a form because it also meant developing greater competition for Slovenian trade. I reiterate that we are having difficulty talking about the competitiveness of Slovenian trade in Slovenia. We have too many foreign traders, foreign shops, where capital flows into foreign pockets because Slovenian workers are unprotected. I gave an example of one of the stores where workers had to wear red caps at the time of their monthly laundry. So that they could leave work twice at work and go to the bathroom. Why don't you worry about protecting Slovenian workers and workers? Why? And why did Minister Vizjak only have to go after the veto in the State Council, say, yes, after the marriage has been passed, maybe to amend the law and introduce not a complete deregulation, but only in part. What does partial deregulation of professions mean? I say this marriage is unfair. I don't believe the Secretary's words. Why didn't the minister listen to the warnings earlier? We will not support such a law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u205	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u206	We won't even support the LDS Law Club. We will vote against it. And we estimate that another opportunity was missed. An appropriate amendment had already been adopted on the parent’s working body to remove all this confusion. If it had been adopted, it would not have been vetoed and a law that would have been an acceptable compromise and would in particular have been harmless to Slovenia. Invulnerable for your economy and our society at all. For we advocate that Slovenia should base its development on the knowledge that we must be a knowledge-based society, which should also be in line with the Lisbon Strategy. For this law is completely contrary to these objectives, which seek its development primarily in knowledge, but not in cheap labour. Because this deregulation is another knife in the back of our school, this deregulation is another knife in the back of vocational education, not just commercial schools, in general vocational education and leads to negative selection in employment. Similarly, we have already received from the Hostages Act. It is now continuing under the Trade Act, and in such a form the law is certainly not appropriate. As we say, it's harmful and we can't support it at the LDS. Even more so, there is also a more formal solution to how to get around this mess. Same as the school law. We don't make laws today. And then, as Minister Vizjak had announced, he puts the law in place, reapplies, amends, amends the law, which will take into account and also contain the foretold corrections, amendments. We have this case. And this case is also more credible, more formal-legally appropriate and does not force someone to accept something that they cannot stand for. And once again, at the LDS Club, we cannot support such a dictatorship of law and we will not support it. It is clear from all of this that the law will do significantly more harm than good. We agree that there are good things in it. Unfortunately, however, these are less than bad, and this is why we do not support the law at the LDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u207	Thank you. I can still see the hands to explain the voice in my own name. Check-in is on. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. Dear President! In the Slovenian National Party - as you have heard - we do not support the bill. We do not support this because we believe that deregulation of professions is also a degradation. And I'm not going to turn to a month's laundry for individual workers. But when I listened to the debate about why this law should be supported, you said, "Any trader will have a desire to support a good expert who knows something about something." But today, there's not a store that sells nothing but pâté, just bread, just television. And imagine the poor guy with primary school. However, he is not a polyglot like my fellow Member, how he will explain to me the declaration on the Eurocreme. Besides, if he knows, this Eurocreme is an ally. Don't buy it. We'd rather buy a German because it's better because that's the language we understand. But still, let me tell you, when it comes to big centers, they don't just sell a certain item but more articles, and they need educated traders. Commercial school, based on your marriage, we'll be able to close. We're gonna lock her up. There's gonna be experts coming in, like, "I know something about pate," and they're gonna sell something, just pâté? No, they will also have to sell television to someone because these centres are set up irrespective of polyglotdom, regardless of the knowledge of this government and the success of raising the prices of this government. They're gonna have to sell you. That's their goal. And believe me, someone else who doesn't come from SDS can also sell something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u209	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u210	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues. When we adopted various resolutions on the development of the Republic of Slovenia, we all referred to the future of Slovenia as a knowledge-based society. What we are witnessing today shows exactly the opposite. I do not think any of us would support a proposal where at least one part of the education would not be recognised or would not need a condition to carry out medical professions. Everyone would have tried to avoid it somehow. And it seems to me that now that we are in a market mechanism and we have a labour market and, mostly, our markets have flooded companies that have a seat outside. From Spar, Leclerc, and I could even list it. And when it comes to trade to get as much profits as possible, it will certainly be the interest of traders to hire as few people as possible. Because these people with little education are going to get small wages. So it seems to me that by adopting this law, we would try to say that education is harmful. It's just hurting who? It harms the employer in particular. That's why I'm not going to support this marriage. I'll make sure his veto is maintained. I just want to say that when we speak, we always have the expression that we used to wear so proudly as graduates on our chests: "Scientia ipsa pottia est" - knowledge is power. And it seems to me that by adopting such a law, we are starting to dig the first hole in order to take knowledge away from that very power, as far as vocational education is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u211	Thank you. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not support this marriage. In the case of school legislation, we have also received promises that the law will change very quickly. He really changed overnight. But it's far from as promised. Minister Vizjak has also promised here that the marriage will change quickly, but we don't know how. In his explanation, he surprised us with some point of view when he said that a document formally after finishing some education did not prove that someone possessed some knowledge. Have we really fallen so far that we do not value all of our schools and the harvesting of our successors in such a way that our completed schooling really means that our children have some knowledge? It is an extremely big surprise to me not to say that I am horrified by the view that someone for this speaker is making such a statement and it is hard to believe that we will get a new document that will provide something appropriate. Of course, this applicable law, which is supposed to apply, of course, cannot be supported. If that were the case, does that mean, as colleagues have already mentioned, that we will suspend the training of traders, from whom more is required every day? There is no store in tourist areas where customers from at least three or four language areas do not appear. And how many languages must be learned by people who work or serve there, if that is what we call it. And that we are here abolishing education in an area where it is needed more, I find something unacceptable and incomprehensible and that my support in this case cannot be.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u213	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I have to say that I do not want to experience any more evaluation in the sense that I speak one thing and I work the other. Since I have declared my opposition to this law a good week ago, I must say today that my support for it is not the result of my statement, but of a different procedure, but of the fact that the Minister has changed his mind to maintain a long-term provision in the law that does not require education. In doing so, I fully understand that we sometimes force ourselves into the Middle Ages. However, such a solution is even closer to the Pot. And that's why I welcome the minister's promise to set up some kind of education. I hope that it will not be such that it will only be at the border between civilization and progress and complete illiteracy, that it will be more than nothing, for discretion remains. There's good will in the minister, whether or not he'll prescribe an education. That's what the proposed amendment says. Whatever the case, there will be no misunderstandings. I will support this marriage in the hope that something more will happen than the minimum that is not acceptable to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u215	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I will personally support the bill. If any other Members and Members of the Social Democrats do so, it is my fault or my thanks. It is simply difficult to live in a way that the public word repeated several times, in writing, with a written text of the law and statements of what the promises of the groups are, how they will be defined by the new law, I simply do not believe. I don't know how to do that, and if I'm, I'm gonna say, maliciously used, and I'm not gonna be right or you're gonna be right about what you're gonna say is "it's true that we don't believe the Minister," I'm gonna apologize to the public in front of you. However, I do not want us to vote in favour of or against the law, whether or not in some parties and individuals. To talk about whether we are educated merchants or not. I would like to remind you that, in the second reading, the Group of Social Democrats has tabled an amendment to the adoption of this amendment by the National Assembly, to the effect that it was satisfied or supported by a veto. We do have two options, whether it is customary for the minister to - who admitted the error, why he admitted it, under the fact of pressure, absolutely, but admitted it - offer a hand and say right, do it or say no, we must always sanction the mistake that has been made and we must not act in this direction. I'm being totally honest. I believe you all know I'm telling the truth. But each of us will decide, just not to beg with the obvious that we are one for the educated and the other for the uneducated merchants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u217	Thank you. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I'll support this marriage. But I have two reasons for that. One reason is that this gives the opportunity to the wider and, above all, the buyers. There is a possibility in these various specialised shopping centres that customers will be able to be significantly more informed and informed about the products they buy. Given that, of course, it will now be possible for such products to be sold not only by the trader, as it was necessary for the employer, but that it will also be possible for the agricultural technician, electrical technician, electrical engineer, chemist. Let us say in some areas that are much more familiar in this area. However, I am convinced that it is in the interest of the sellers to present their product, which they also have, qualitatively, because it gives them a significantly greater opportunity to sell. The second reason I'm going to support this marriage is because it's the next. More and more times, today a worker still comes to work. At 6 a.m., at 2 p.m., at 2 p.m., and two, three or even four hours from here, he prepares shelves for the next day without any compensation or payment. With this law, I hope that we will end this, so that we will also get a sufficiently educated staff in the store, which will not be allowed and leave to manipulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u219	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u220	Dear President! Appreciation of my colleague and colleagues! You've got to be kidding me with your education so little. I believe it is in the interest of many to have uneducated jobs, but not because buyers are badly served. It's something else. It's just that it's much easier to manipulate people who don't have enough education. This is contrary to the declared principle of this country, including this government, which is talking about a knowledge society and a society that will develop further. I can't believe anything's gonna change. I think it's a big push, and that's why I'm voting against it. If Minister Vizjak really wants to change the law, he will, of course, change it with ease and clean hygiene. At the time when the proposal for this law falls, he should submit a new proposal. We will also consider it to be an urgent procedure or an emergency and, of course, we will confirm it as soon as possible. But to degrade knowledge and education, that's something else. I believe all those who say it would be good for other professions to enter the store. And I'm up for it. It's nice to write it all down, and if it's true will, then we could have it in front of us. But I don't believe it's true will. It won't be the first time there's not gonna be any unfulfilled promises to do things in your pocket. But if one of those who propose this law is not satisfied with his education and feels that he is too low and that he has nothing to do with it, then let him react as he is worthy of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u221	Thank you. Is there any other interest? I can see more deadlines, so I'm reopening the application. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u222	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will support this marriage myself. because I don't understand things the way some people look at them, that this is how a lower standard is introduced in trade. There are thousands in Slovenia, if not in tens of thousands of stores, where there is a substantial need for more knowledge than employees with basic professional education. I know a lot of stores where employees are not just technicians. Even engineers, because knowledge is so specific that it is necessary to have such skills as well as education. In the past, we have witnessed the need for someone with such knowledge to comply with those basic rules even to work some additional commercial schools to meet legal criteria. I am convinced that in this way, as the original law of this matter regulates, it practically allows traders to employ an even higher level of knowledge and not that every trader will seek only to search for less qualified people. After all, it is in the interest of every merchant to have quality staff. Because quality staff can be sufficient to customers and thus sell. In the event that the Minister of Economy has some new, even more compromise solutions, this will be a step against those who have opposed this law. So that this basic text of the law is also totally acceptable to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u223	Thank you. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. Well, I'll support the law. For a simple reason, I look at this marriage from another perspective. When I come to the store and especially to the large centers where they sell different goods, and if I go, say, to the furniture department, I wonder, say, what material is made of, whether it's a veneered squirrel or a normal wood and what kind of coatings are there. Who's gonna explain this to me the easiest? I think he's the one who knows forestry. And why couldn't this law be a woodworking technique? It's easy under this law. However, if we prescribe that he must be a mandatory trader, there is a question. It's a question. And then there's the other one. If we go, say, to the electric department, who better to explain than, say, an electrician or an electrician? And because this law does not prohibit such professions, of course I support the law. But I don't mind if this law can be improved later. That's perfectly clear. But I can't accept this about uneducated merchants in the adoption of this law because it doesn't say anything about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u225	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u226	Thank you very much. So, respectable colleagues, colleague! The law, which the Minister himself claims will need to be amended immediately, cannot be supported and, of course, I will oppose. I understand that members of the coalition and members of the partnership must support the laws. This is absolutely expected of them. What I find completely unnecessary is that here before us, both colleague Žnidaršič and colleague Potrč, they apologize for believing the Minister. That's why there's no reason. They signed certain commitments and have them keep their commitments. We are bound to the electorate by the opposition's attitude. We do not believe in what is called a constructive attitude, which basically means that, when necessary, you make a cow's trade. Look, the minister himself says there's a need to uphold the law. In a series of proceedings, the Council of State said what needed to be changed. This, however, was not taken into account in the working bodies, nor in the meeting of the congregation. If this law were confirmed to me today, we would be making fun of the arguments we had in this debate. They would make fun of the State Council and make fun of all those who are trying to make school work in Slovenia. This law must therefore be repealed and sent to the coalition on the normal path of the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u227	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. It never happened to me that when I came to the store and the trader asked if this product was good, it was good, it was good to say to me, "No, no, it's not good. Don't buy it." If I asked if the food was fresh, "No, it's not fresh, it's not buying." So from this point of view, I would like to tell you that we do not dramatise about education in Novi Slovenija. We don't have a problem with that. This is an existing one, which has been proposed, and especially what the Minister has said he will fix something from this point of view. As I have already said in my position, do not be afraid, my well-respected colleague and colleague, that we will spend less on these sellers and sellers if we demand different educated people. As I said, it is not a deregulation or, at the final stage, an adjustment to the deregulation of education. In Novi Slovenija we see another problem that we keep reminding us that there is no content involved in the new law to talk about Sunday work so that the new proposed law contains what people have said in the referendum. And as long as this law is not in New Slovenia, we do not have to support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u229	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u230	Thank you very much, distinguished president, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I will also support this law in another without any special reservations, because I simply believe that this trade law is better than it has ever been. Indeed, there has been a great deal of talk in the home labour body about this regulation of professions, what we expect from this law. I've been talking to a lot of workers waiting for work, as well as employers. In general, it is said that in Slovenia we are unfortunately emptying out vocational schools. No cooks, no vendors, no waiters, no messiers, no welders, and so on. These schools are empty. Who's to blame for being empty? It's probably a complex question that there's no interest in these schools. Whether it's hard work, or whether the Slovenians aren't gonna do this, or whether it's too low wages or something. There's got to be more to the cause. However, if we have shops that have such and different addresses in the Slovenian space, or are foreign, the locals do not matter, that is where our consumers go. And these merchants, employers don't get on the seller's market. They're just gone! Why didn't he ask them, but they just aren't. And why don't they allow this employer to hire a person with a job, such as a seamstress who lost her job in the Slovenian space, but maybe she can turn out to be a good salesman. Last but not least, that's up to the employer. If he pleases the consumer, he'll have traffic if he doesn't have one, he won't have one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u231	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u232	Thank you very much. I will vote for this law myself. I was convinced by a few things, one of which was the performance by the representative of the National Council of Mr Semolic, who represents the workers in the State Council. He said that given the Minister's assurance that he would be immediately in the next step - it is said that we will be able to talk or discuss changes to the trade law in January, so that we will again have a mandatory trade education provision for trade workers. So that's one reason. But the second reason for my notions is even more important. In fact, as long as this law is not on the agenda of the National Assembly in January, given that it is already prepared, that there is no reservation to be considered, it means that the credibility of the Minister of Economy of Mr Visiak is completely undermined and it will be clear to the entire Slovenian public that Minister Visjak is not a person we can trust and should, by the logic of the matter, give way to such a derogation. I hope that if it does not happen that we are considering the law in January, that we will not get it into consideration, that Minister Vizjak will resign. I think that this is the only solution for him and also the only solution for the reputation of the coalition, in particular the Slovenian Democratic Party to which this minister belongs. And the third reason why I will vote in favour of this law is because I am convinced that with the second amendment of the law we will provide workers and shopkeepers with the opportunity to maintain some pride and some awareness that something is also in force in this society. Otherwise [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u233	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u234	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Now, actually, I'm in a real dilemma. Since I will support the law for a second time, I have, in fact, turned myself in because I would not want to be accused of degrading formal education as such or thereby reducing competitiveness at a high technological level. That was from the debate. In fact, from this last debate, if I support the law, I expect the regime to be reinstated and regulated again, there is a real compulsory education. It is my opinion that the pre-position of formal education is a great advantage and what we expect from everyone who carries out a particular profession, a certain professional work. However, it is not necessarily a formal but priori requirement, not in certain professions at all. I will cite two cases from a completely different field, from the area of computer science, where you have the case of a man who is today the richest man in the world, who has only formally completed university studies after a few decades, and that is because he once promised his father. The Minister of Culture in a very cultural country did not have university education, he was Minister of Culture. So, but the priori of formal education does not mean, of course, that there is a certain advantage and formal education needs to be supported, but not required and regulated in any case. I'll vote for the law again.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u235	Thank you. Mr. Homan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u236	Thank you for your word. I'll back the law myself. The motto of this government is the development of a small and medium economy. And here's the question that if some baker at home bakes bread, why should he in the morning, if he could sell his product, bread, sell it, why shouldn't he still be at home selling his product, going to bed, and then going back to work baking bread and selling it in the morning. Under this law, he should hire a merchant in his shop, which I do not think makes sense. Another such reason is, look, no great merchant or great giant will spit in his bowl and take unskilled labour because trade is so wide a spectrum, the sales technique is so developed that you just have to be educated today, you know how to sell a product. There are whole ranges of sales techniques how to display sales policies, how to wrap it all up, sell it to make the sale as big as possible. Here the Chamber of Commerce has its own rules that stick to them. Above all, this law is intended for craftsmen who can produce their products and can then sell them. A while ago, these people who had already been employed in the store had not had an adequate education, had to perform some tests at the Chamber of Commerce, but had already been good sellers, and the formal education they received did not help them much. I'm still sure if someone is selling rubber, why does a rubber guy know best how to sell rubber, how it's made up, what the ingredients are in it - and why shouldn't they also sell it? Here we place the role of a trader who has a three-year formal education but does not know much about a particular product and still needs to learn more about a particular profession [[...]] [[End warning sign]] We are moving to an area where trade and profession can work together. [[...]] That's why I'm going to support this marriage today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u237	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I'm a little embarrassed now. Today we will decide on the trade law, such as it is, not the Minister's promises. If the Minister's promises were on the agenda for decision-making, I would be happy to support them and the law is difficult, for a simple reason, because I believe that I will never support proposals that diminish the importance and role of education at any level, as well as at the level of vocational education. And I'll tell you why. Indeed, it is not only that traders or traders who will not have an adequate formal education in order to be able to sell worse are less skilled traders and traders; it is also that, but not only that. Who says a merchant and a merchant need an education just to make it easier and better to sell? You need an education just like that, you need an education for education! And I'll tell you a story that's very simple. 20 years ago, 30 years ago, someone could have gone - when they finished school, 40 years worked in the same job, today is not the same. When you let trained merchants and merchants into the store, you'll lock them in a niche and in 20 years, when the situation changes, they won't be able to go anywhere else. Today we are dealing with problems in the workplace with unemployed people because of non-educational education. And if we give people an education, then we'll give them a chance to adapt, and that's what this is about and other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u239	Thank you. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, after being vetoed, it seems that the law does not seem to have a great opportunity to be adopted, especially because it has been opposed for a long time by even two coalition parties, one NSI on Sundays and another DeSUS on the grounds of abolishing the educational condition. But at least we don't belong to those riders who would ride horses once, and then we wouldn't be able to stop if the situation changed. And we feel that it is also trustworthy for our minister to realize what has been required all the time in the process. I myself have judged among the louder criticisms that educational conditions should be lifted and I think it is right to support the promise and attempt to reintroduce this educational condition by law. And let me remind you that we will try to hold the Minister for the word, including the written word that says that "they are working on the basis of surveys for those educational standards that require the third, fourth, fifth and sixth levels of education". When he does, we will probably all be able to be sure that he has kept the word, and we who support this law will not have to bow our heads. However, if he is going to play us here, we will also have to admit that we have been led on a sidepathic path, but for the time being we believe him and we want this law to be passed, and in this way it is possible to introduce the lowest educational level required for the profession not by the trader but by the seller and the manager.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u241	Thank you. And Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't think it's wise that a law that we know is bad, that there's a whole bunch of mistakes, that we're going to fix in January, we're going to support. Let's just take the time and make a good marriage. Even this salad of mortals, which happened in this room today, is difficult to understand, some now believe the minister in the first word, but it was previously reported to him that he sold the Slovenian steel industry for half the price. I don't know if we're kidding or if we're serious. I'm just saying, with this cow, we're obviously buying a cat in a jacket. Lowering educational standards has never been good. In the store, we not only sell bread and milk, but also significantly more other articles. Today you can read in the newspaper that we had on Slovenian trade shelves a whole bunch of products containing drugs containing illicit paints containing lead. I was discussing in the Law on Plant Safety and Pharmaceuticals, and I don't understand how someone who doesn't have the necessary knowledge and pre-education would sell these things. It seems simple to me that there is a responsibility on our part to consumers to sell it to someone who is qualified to do so, but the one who sells it must also be paid fairly, not that today the funds that traders and traders deserve are, as we say, domestically: it is not to live, it is not to die. We're against the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u243	Thank you. Since I see two more, three more hands, please report to all those who wish to explain your voice. Mr. Pike, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u244	Thank you for your word. I'll support this marriage myself. Why? Because it introduces deregulation and also removes administrative obstacles. We must bear in mind that there are many small shops where they operate on the principle that family members are employed. And why would we restrict these family members to work there? We've also heard about drugs, pharmacies and so on. This is already regulated by other sectoral laws, the chemicals law, the pharmacy law, the drug law, and so on. Secondly, for the development of the Slovenian countryside, it is also very important that products of Slovenian farms can be sold in the countryside, in farms, which have not yet been available, due to the limitations of this law. There are a lot of professions that could work in the store, so I'm also in favour of having trained staff at the store, but why should a salesman. The fact is, this allows a lot of high school graduates to take on such a job. The fact is that this law is good and that is why we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u245	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u246	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. It is nice to talk today about believing in the Minister correctly, but today we will not decide whether we believe in the Minister or not, but we will decide on what kind of law we will adopt. And I see this law in the general attitude of this House towards knowledge. Are we really at this point in time to say that we can all do everything? And I agree with all those who say that even for a trader's profession it is necessary to define the necessary standard of knowledge. I can agree with those who say that in certain cases the necessary knowledge is not enough, but it needs to be upgraded. So we define the necessary, necessary condition that needs to be added in individual knowledge groups, of course with additional knowledge. I would like to believe that it will be possible to harmonise the manner of education and the necessary knowledge within the trader's profession so quickly that we can have a change of law already in January's parliamentary hearing. I'm not sure, considering I'm also monitoring what's going on in the school field. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , well, in the school field, which often brings solutions that do not have a very thorough professional analysis. [[...]] That is why I propose, and I express in my definition, that we oppose this law and commit the Minister fully to draw up such a law that will be fully acceptable, but not by giving him the opportunity to upgrade it if we have the opportunity not to adopt it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u247	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u248	The fundamental question that we are talking about today is whether we believe Minister Visiak or not. Because we were supposed to believe him, those who voted against the law when he was here should now vote in favour. I believe more in traders and traders myself, including those I know from my environment. And I know that in the Slovenian trade, because of the lack of action of this minister, serious things happen. Even worse things will happen because of events that this minister triggered last Friday with some pursuit against the biggest trader or owner. Therefore, I think that any decision made by a legislative body that allows Slovenian traders to pressure traders and also male traders is unjustifiable. It's a coalition conflict, a conflict, because some of you in the coalition think that this law should be extended with something else. Minister Vizjak didn't understand this fight until the veto was voted. Why just now? Why is the awakening of Minister Visiak just now? Why wake anyone else up after the Sunday referendum on the Triglav Insurance Company and a few other events? That's why you're on the move. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] In the coalition. [[...]] I can't give a vote for myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u249	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u250	Thank you. I will support the law myself, in all these debates that we are hearing today, there is a lot of talk about the education of traders. Maybe I'll go the other way. So in some trading system, there is an opportunity for employment for people with the lowest basic qualifications up to the educated. I wonder where with those who have not done any education there are a lot of jobs. Maybe for a manipulator in a warehouse who just needs a training course for a forklifter, and even more from the point of view of safe work than the operational work itself. I would also turn to continuous training by suppliers. For more demanding products, suppliers organise education, seminars where annual or periodic or when something new happens, they educate sellers of a very specific spectrum. From my experience, I am a chemical consultant myself, and in stores where I am engaged, once a year or when something happens - it is necessary to take care of safety lists, education, especially new ones and those who periodically renew knowledge needs to be taken care of. In the end, I would say this, you don't have to be afraid of the good education of traders if they're capable of any agreement, then they're more overeducated than they're missing out on their education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u251	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u252	It's a beautiful hall for words. My colleague Ziherl told me where to go with those who don't have an education. I'll say, go to school. Is that not the objective of the Lisbon Strategy committed to by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the government of Janez Janša, who will start to chair the EU on 1.1.2008 and which, among the priorities of the presidency, has respect for the Lisbon Strategy? Lifelong learning is also an emphasis on formal education. Please don't think about it, dear fellows and colleagues! Or will we, I said, in five, six years, be seven years away from the EU to reduce the share in our country of those people who do not even reach secondary education. And don't talk about, I don't know, highly educated people filling shelves in stores. It's a demagogy you're doing today. The ones you're talking about trusting Minister Visiak for making a promise. But we already know today that Minister Vizjak, in his promise, even if he fulfills it, will not do what he did because he was the greatest dilemma in the debates in the National Assembly. Only a partial deregulation was announced by the minister that he would cancel it. This is not what we all expected together and what we wanted, even as a result of which the veto was last voted on. You know, I say when this law is passed, the law will become a reality, even if the minister changes the law. If adopted today, the law will become a reality. This is important. Why Minister Vizjak does not withdraw the law Why Minister Vizjak does not withdraw the law and prepare a new comprehensive law, which will include what we have asked the opposition MPs, including part of the coalition, not least. That would be fair, that would be what would be expected of a minister who has serious and fair purposes by amending the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u253	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u254	Thank you very much, colleagues. I'd agree with a lot of ideas that I've heard from the coalition if I didn't have life problems, how it didn't work. First, if it happens as you predict and want, the whole system is broken down, which is being built by the Ministry of Education all the time. Another time. I'd like to ask the minister if he'd be with us, if the merchants would hire 845 knapsacks that the minister will close in two years. I'm just curious. You're saying there's no need for formal education, so a button that has one finger like this, and it's going to go pretty well for the trader. I wonder who's gonna hire him!? For them we demand restructuring, it means education, education and re-direction. The clock can't be, the jeweler can't be, but he can be a merchant. He won't be hired by anyone. But here's where it starts to break, ladies and gentlemen, some kind of system, some kind of pyramid. There's nothing wrong with having a proper education. Last but not least, the previous and current government invented it, an education. Who invented Hasap? We? No, we confirmed it! You made it up and the government made it up. Hasap - hygiene minimum. And a lot of other things that belong to the education process and can't be anyone's thing. If we tear down this system, there will be 100 other categories that will require the same approach. Let's have a marriage where we don't have to do this and the third and the fourth, and we'll do what we want. And in fact, in the end, it will be true that we will do what we want to do, but that is not our goal. In view of the Lisbon Strategy, I stress what we want because we wanted to go to Europe and we want to be in Europe. First communist country to preside over the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u255	Thank you. Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u256	Although I am a coalition Member, there are two reasons why I cannot support the law. The first reason is that I do not think that Parliament can support legislative proposals that are contrary to the expressed will of the people in the referendum. I think that the law is the result of a fairly strong trade lobby and I do not want a Slovenian policy run by such a strong one or another lobby, even though we know that it is always present in politics. I think it's too transparent here. The result of the trade lobby, however, is that the proposed deregulation, which means already very high profits for traders, is an increase in earnings, so that wages should not be increased for those people who are easier to obtain on the lower education market. That's the first one. Secondly, I think the country would lose one opportunity to obtain private funds to train people who do not have an education. If trade needs people with adequate education to invest some of their profits in education, the state should take advantage of this through a prescribed programme and thus achieve two good things at a time, but if we support such a law, let us miss two opportunities; it is said that we will miss the shift of part of the profits to higher wages if wages are high enough, I am sure that it would not be a problem to get enough workers, but if they are not, but something must also be invested in the education of those who do not have enough education.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u257	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Potch? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u258	Thank you very much. It'll be 10 minutes before the decision is made.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u259	Good. We have completed the explanation, so, at the request of the SD Group, I interrupt the meeting for 10 minutes and we will continue at 18.20.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u260	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The interruption has expired, we continue the meeting, and I give the floor to Mr Ptræ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Members and Members of the Social Democrats were convinced that, with regard to the content of the trade law and the disputed article, which referred to education as a condition for the exercise of commercial activities, an agreement was reached between the Minister and a large majority of the Members of this Assembly. That's how things were presented to us. Today we find at least three: the first is that individual Members and Members of the Coalition spoke differently from the Minister of Vision. Indeed, in the belief that the law would be better if it did not have to be supplemented after its adoption, and with uncertainty what their decision will be when, because I personally believe in Minister Viszak, that the bill would come to a decision on this State Assembly. Second. We have found that the fundamental problem that Minister Vizjak tried to reach an agreement with some opposition groups is the fact that there is an unanimity in the coalition and that by voting "for" we would cover the problem of unity that has not been achieved in the coalition, which we do not necessarily need. And a third. Formally, it must be given to the opposition's colleagues and colleagues who said that Minister Vizjak had agreed to amend the law only after the law had fallen in the National Assembly, that the result, if this is a common wish, could come two ways. That one way is to adopt the law today and the amendments, and the other way that the law is not adopted today is to come up with a proposal with the same content that is promised. And for these reasons, we decided in the Group of Social Democrats that none of us would support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u262	Thank you. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 15. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the bill on patient rights, the regular procedure. We continue to decide on the amendments tabled, which I will guide on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 12.12.2007. First, I shall put the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 44. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to Article 2, where we have three amendments. First, I shall put to the vote the amendment of the LDS Group under Article 1 to 2. Mr. Germich, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u263	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I am sorry that you have not already noticed me in Article 1 which is a very important article and is talking about the purpose of the law, but I will now try to explain the content and meaning of this law in the amendment to Article 2 and the importance of the amendment. So, with the amendment of the LDS, we return to the text of the so-called security complication. This is a very important category that speaks about whether we really want to achieve the highest possible level of patient safety through this law. Interesting is the following fact. We used the same or very similar explanation as the drafter of the law in the first proposal of the law to justify this amendment. The drafter supported the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups, which deletes the security complication. If we only listen to the warning of the President of the Commission on Medical Ethics, Professor Trontl, who speaks of this notion being urgently needed in this law, because patients' rights can be guaranteed, and many cases already show this through unintentional events at the time of medical treatment. By deleting this term, we no longer allow a safety complication to occur in modern medical practice. This means that we do not follow the Luxembourg Declaration or the Ovied Convention, i.e. the two important documents cited by the applicant in the draft law, which we then walk through with the amendment of coalition parties. It is not the intention of our amendment to find out the reasons, therefore, nor is it the purpose of this law to search for culprits in the medical profession. Of course, the purpose of this law must be to identify through an investigation into the alleged security complication the reasons for such a complication. And if such a complication has occurred, this law should provide the patient with all the rights he can exercise. Since the law does not define it now, it seems to us that marriage is irreparable damage. We therefore propose, colleagues and colleagues, to accept this amendment and return to the text of the law what has already been written in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u264	Thank you. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, in her own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Allow me, and I will support this amendment myself, and I will remind you again, dear colleagues and colleagues, of a broad debate that has also taken place at the home work body and at the hearing of the National Assembly. Last but not least, I have before me, but I believe that you have also looked at it, the opinion of Professor Dr. Medicine Trontlja, who made it clear and loud that what you are deleting in the law would make sense to reinstate into the law with the amendment. The amendments tabled in Article 1 are correcting this mistake that you have made, respected colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking you to listen. The security complication must be important. Comrade Zicherl, while you're joking, I hope you'll have a big enough reminder if patients seriously unite and request a referendum, as long as you insist stubbornly on the proposed solutions. The referendum looks forward to the Law on Patient Rights. I have a letter before me, and I hope you have one too, Comrade Ziherl. It's not fair to make fun of patients! This law, if adopted by the amendment correcting Article 1 and Article 2, I apologize, will correct, once again I say, the error that experts, the medical profession, have pointed to; the error made by you, colleagues and colleagues, since the basic proposal of the law included a security complication in the text.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u266	Thank you. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 45. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. I am putting to the vote the second amendment to the same article proposed by the Zares Group. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 45. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. And I am putting to the vote the third amendment, which is also proposed by the Zares Group of Members. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 45. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to Article 14 and I am putting to the vote the amendments of the LDS Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 43. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to Article 15 and I am putting to the vote the amendments of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 46. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 16 and to the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 63 Members present and 20 votes against 43. (The vote was 20.)(against 43.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the vote the amendment of Article 17 of the DeSUS Group. We're voting. There are 63 Members present and 18 votes against 44. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the vote the amendments of the LDS Group to Article 20. We're voting. There are 63 Members present and 16 votes against 46. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the 41st article, where we have two amendments, which are identical and if adopted, the second is irrelevant, or two are candidates for the same amendment; LDS and DESUS. We're voting. I'm sorry, I'm hanging up. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament. Mr. Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister! We think that this amendment would suggest acceptance, because it is not possible to restrict the patient by providing that I have an opinion with the same operator, i.e. the second opinion with the same operator as the first opinion. I think that the right second opinion may be with another operator or that it must be a free decision of the insurer or agree with the other opinion of the same operator or wish to seek another opinion from another operator. Indeed, I do not believe that the price, when it comes to a public health network, would be significantly different and that freedom of choice would remain for a second opinion, a page, for example, from the first operator. I have worked for decades in health care, and I know that in the same house, more or less, there is the same opinion about the same problem. Therefore, in the same house, with the same contractor, there is virtually no other opinion. The one who thinks otherwise makes a terrible mistake. And in this regard, it would suggest leaving to the benefit of patients, patients and the benefit of the profession as such that an alternative is also sought outside with the right of the patient to choose. I therefore propose that the amendment be supported. We will support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u268	Thank you. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 66 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 42. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendments of the SDS Group to Article 42. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 59 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 10. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendments of the SDS Group to Article 43. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 4. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to the 50th paragraph, where we have two amendments, if the amendment under number 1 is adopted, the amendment under number 2 is irrelevant. I am putting to the vote the amendments of the DeSUS Group of Members under number 1. Mr Žnidaršič, please, you have the floor in the name of the messenger.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u269	Thank you very much. The Institute of Patient Rights is a fog with which health policy tries to defend negligence in the area of the content enshrined in the coalition contracts and offers it in exchange for the failure of a system in which many things are wrong and does not take appropriate measures. For this reason, I propose that the Institute of Counsel be abolished, leaving only a possible complaint in the first instance, then a complaint in the Infantry, and then remains the court as the extreme possibility of the one who fails earlier. At the same time, of course, I count that we will get a Deputy Ombudsman who will, in principle, defend patients' rights by alerting the legislative authorities and all those empowered in the public health sector to do everything they can to ensure that violations do not occur or to do everything to ensure that the system works so that the insured do not suffer infringements of the patient's rights. And in this sense, the Institute of Counsel is a poor option. If I subtract from the imposition, for example, the non-existent landscapes, a transitional provision that, in the meantime, the Health Insurance Office will not solve the problem. The Health Insurance Office has enough other work to do, for example, in order to take a closer look at where health money is disappearing, which is being used recklessly, not to say illegally of course, without the health policy blinking with the midwife. I asked the Minister a while ago what he would do at the Clinical Center, where 2005 spent so much illegal money - I mean in an illegal way so much money - and to this day there were no smart moves, no one was replaced, no one was closed, etc. In short, we will support this amendment because the representative will not solve this problem and there is an empty hope for patients who, due to the irregularity of the system and non-compliance with the provisions of the non-executive coalition treaty, have nothing to wait for. We can have many representatives, each patient can get their own representative, his rights will not be realized if we do nothing to make the system work as it should; if we do not make sure that the health money is spent transparently, and if we do nothing to make the management responsible for what he is doing if he is doing wrong. We don't actually start these things, but we've spent three months on this marriage, which is a bad choice, a bad solution, a terrible hope, from which patients will have nothing. For this reason, I propose that at least this amendment be adopted and that it continue to be amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u270	Thank you. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 66 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 42. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendments of the SNS Group of Ambassadors under number 2 to the same Article. Mrs Žgajner Tavš on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u271	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that the amendment we have drafted in the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members follows exactly what you wrote down, respected colleagues and colleagues, in the coalition contract. In the coalition contract, the Government or coalition partners have committed themselves to establishing a guardian of the patient's rights. I hope that at least a little moral responsibility lies with you, Members of Parliament and Members, that you will not overstep your own document, the basis of your work. For if you do as you have predicted in the last session, where we have also discussed the amendments, then you will clearly show how important Slovenian citizens and citizens are to you. Last but not least, the coalition agreement, which records your basic starting points, is also your commitment to the electorate and the electorate. And to remind you, at least one of your Members, who was still Minister of Health in March 2005, when he answered my question in writing that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would establish an institution for the Ombudsman. That is why I ask you, my fellow Members and colleagues, because I have this opportunity - in the Slovenian National Party we will support this amendment and it would make sense for you to support this amendment. I am confident that if we receive the Ombudsman, we will follow good practice on behalf of the protection of all patients or patients. You know, those who will plead that we already have a guardian of human rights, that the Constitution makes no sense, or that even the Constitution does not allow duplication - for the first time, it is not a matter of duplicating, for the second time, the Constitution allows regional guardians, including the Ombudsman of patients' rights, and for the third time, the existing Ombudsman cannot respond to all complaints and irregularities in the health system, currently only two deputies are employed. Those who are also supposed to cover the health system are also in charge of social, labour, maintenance and so on. In short, I am convinced that if we supported this amendment, we would make a significant contribution to improving bad marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u272	Thank you. Since I can see there's still an interest in explanation of vote, I'm opening applications. Mr. Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u273	Thank you very much. We will support this amendment because it covers, otherwise, the establishment of an institution of assistant, a deputy guardian for the rights of the patient, in the hope that at least this solution will be the outcome of a bad law, which may allow at least one institution to improve the protection of the rights of the patient. I hope that the amendment will be adopted, although I fear that the system would make it totally unacceptable for the Ombudsman to designate one of the existing deputies for this area. And in this case, if she doesn't make sure it's one of the next two she needs, then I don't know if we're going to support this law or not; we're going to see how it goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u274	Thank you. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u275	Thank you so much for saying that. On behalf of the Group of Members, I would explain my vote if I could.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u276	On behalf of the delegation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u277	We will not accept this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, because the concept of the law, which introduces the so-called representative of patients' rights, practically sets out all those expected obligations and also the tasks that our patients will be able to use when they have the need to resolve those perceived violations. The Ombudsman herself fully agreed with such a solution, and she does not appreciate that we would now introduce a special deputy into this area, or we can call it the Ombudsman, because it does not seem to make sense to her, and she also supports such solutions. Once again, in the debate today, as well as in the past days, it must be stressed that it is once again merely a question of the name itself, whether it is an agent or a guardian. We know that the representative has virtually all of those tasks defined as already used or carried out by the guardian of patients' rights in Maribor. We do not see the need now to avoid the good practice that it has already used through its work now to benefit our patients so that we can now use it in this way. If this amendment were to be adopted, the whole concept of the law would also be broken below and the law's methodology itself would no longer follow those basic objectives, and this is the benefit of our patients. Thus there is no need for such an amendment to be accepted, better to follow this concept further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u278	Thank you. Mr Kontic, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will support the proposed amendment in the Socialist Group of Members, as we have supported all the opposition amendments so far and as we have done on the working body of the mother. I can even agree with the conclusion that the adoption of this amendment would change the concept or the concept of this law, but we expected to change the concept in a way that we would follow the amendments of the opposition parliamentary groups from the very beginning. We will also support this amendment because we believe that it is actually necessary to protect these patients' rights through this law on patient rights, including with the Ombudsman. We believe that this law must speak and must then reflect in its content the protection of the patient's rights. More and more as we look at this law, including this amendment, we feel that the more we do not defend it or pay attention to the rights of healthcare providers and less about the rights of patients. We are also convinced by the letters of patients, patients, associations, societies, including those who are in the institution or who are in the institution - it is important when we adopt this law. It is therefore impossible to agree to this law, including this article, because patients, patients, were not heard or were not in line with the government coalition or the ministry on the content of this article, and however we explain it now. There are still some amendments below. We will support them in the Group of Social Democrats. In the light of the experience we have with the vote on the amendment, I can say right now that the Group of Social Democrats, also because of the non-admission of the opposition amendments to this law to the benefit of the patients, in favour of the rights of the patients, will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u280	Thank you. Mrs. Zalockar-Arms, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u281	Thank you very much. In the Group of Members, we have always felt that the Institute for the Protection of Patients' Rights could best be implemented by obtaining in Slovenia a guardian of patients' rights in order to obtain a guardian in one person who would be elected here in Parliament, in the National Assembly and thus ensure certain autonomy and independence in such an important function as the protection of the rights of the patient. This is also what patients wanted. And it is clear to me today why they were always ignored, why they were largely not properly communicated with, why they were not coordinated with the law, which was written and should have been written primarily for them, because in this law they had the main word, as I have said many times before, according to my opinion, doctors. Unfortunately, we adopt a law written by doctors to protect patients' rights. And at the very point where the Ombudsman should be established, it is very clear who in Slovenia is afraid of strong personalities, personalities who can perform sovereignly and actually defend patients' rights, not only in terms of specific problems and problems that arise in an individual, but also in certain systemic problems that are huge, we can say, at this point in the field of health. Of course, such a person would have such a reputation and would probably also suggest certain solutions, which, of course, would probably not be for the medical community, I will not say in favour, but which they would not like. For they desire to rule this area all the time, especially by themselves. And of course in this sense, respected colleagues, especially from the coalition, today some have already mentioned - you have received a letter in which representatives of the patient's societies inform us that they will collect signatures for the referendum. And I hope that [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] You are aware of what you are doing today, when you do not fully, vehemently accept even those amendments that are professionally neutral. [[...]] There will be no mercy here, there will be no request for us to chair the European Union at this time. If patients decide that this law, such as it is, is not appropriate, then the referendum will be held. I don't think this thing is gonna happen. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] as simple and ridiculous as anyone might think today, and of course this is the last warning. [[...]] They can't do the other thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u282	Thank you. Mr Zagorac has the word on his behalf. [[He's quitting.]] We're voting on the amendment. There are 65 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 42. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the 51st article, where we have three amendments; if it is adopted, two remain irrelevant. I am therefore putting to the vote the amendments of the DeSUS Group under number 1. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 21 votes against 43. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The second and third amendments are the same, so I am putting to the vote the amendments of the two parliamentary groups, the LDS and Zares. On behalf of the LDS Group of Members, Mr Germić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u283	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. So, the law allows for a two-tier treatment of patients' rights, one by law that we are currently dealing with, and the other package is health insurance rights. Therefore, there is a possibility of duality and given that the applicant has not listened to a single regulation of rights, it would only point out that the number of procedures in relation to the exercise of health insurance rights based on data from the Health Insurance Office for 2006 is over 360 000. We will not guarantee rights under this law. At the same time, the counsellor, who is to advise the patient to the extent possible, is informed of what is also happening in the rights of health insurance, we take on the status of professional performance of this function. Of course, I wonder if we add to this the following fact that the applicant justified the medical complication as a possibility of medical error, so, health errors, I apologize, and that now that we are taking the definition of complication from the law, we are no longer talking about the possibility of medical error. Of course, then, we wonder who this law serves. The duality, the reduction of powers and the reduction of the role of a professional representative in the non-professional exercise of this activity and, of course, we do not recognise in this law the possibility of a medical error, then the question arises on which basis the applicant wishes to protect patients' rights when supporting such amendments. Thus, it is a highly designed system of diminishing the importance of this law in terms of the protection of patients' rights. And if we can at least partially correct what was proposed by the amendments to the coalition MPs, then it makes sense to return to the law of professional representation. If there are no other arguments, see your justification for Article 50, which speaks of the fact that there were more than 360,000 procedures under the Health Care Act in 2006 alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u284	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam. He's quitting. We're voting. The vote on these two amendments, which are in fact one amendment to the two groups of Members, is under way. There are 61 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 42. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to paragraph 52, where we have four amendments. If adopted first, amendments 2 and 3 are irrelevant. I am putting to the vote the amendments of the DeSUS Group of Members under number 1. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 42. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to the second amendment. The applicant is LDS. If an amendment under number 2 has been adopted, the amendments under 3 and 4 are irrelevant. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 43. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the vote the amendments of the Zares Group under number 3. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 43. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the vote the amendments of the Zares Group under number 4. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 7. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We turn to the vote on the amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 53. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 16 to 43. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendment of Article 54 of the DeSUS Group. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 16 to 43. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to 55.a. We have four amendments here. If an amendment under number 1 has been adopted, the amendment shall be immaterial. I am therefore putting to the vote the amendments of the DeSUS Group under number 1. Mr. Žnidaršič, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u285	Thank you very much. So this amendment speaks of what is written in a coalition contract or a milder form, it is not the sole guardian of the patient’s rights, but it is the guardian’s deputy. It would be appropriate to appoint him to Parliament for a period of five years. They would have no objection if one of the four assistants had been appointed to Parliament by name and surname for a period of five years, but not one of the already existing two instead of four or fewer; someone who will be 'our' under the headings, not the same as those whose rights should be protected. And in this sense, I propose that you accept this amendment, otherwise the fate of this law may be ugly. I say right now that I will support the referendum on this subject myself if the law is adopted so flawed that nothing can be corrected, although it is bad, although it is not in line with the affected, even though the matter is being resolved through the laity prism of those who have the majority, not those who know a little better or at least for force. In this context, I call on all present to accept, however, these amendments, which could mitigate the bad aspects of this law at least to some extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u286	Thank you. Mr. Clavor in his own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u287	Dear President! In my name, yes. This is because I would like to say what ease you have dealt with this difficult topic or this very sensitive topic when we discussed it on the committee and today when we were voting, when we were looking at it as a machine, and at the same time we were talking about our patients. This surprised me very much, the use of the name "our patients," but nothing, nothing that would have helped to do anything about it, was taken into account. Who are we trying to help? To our patients who are advocated - who? And we, Members, defend whether they are doctors against them, as has been said. You also have a doctor standing in front of me, another doctor talking to me, we are very critical of everything, and we have been very critical in this debate, just like our colleague, Professor of Medical Ethics, participated in the Health Committee. That's not gonna happen! As it was said, so goes [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] moving forward and not to the left, not to the right taking no proposal into account. [[...]] Our Group of Members has also made certain proposals. Interestingly, I'd almost say it's a little distasteful, and neither of us has been supported by our coalition colleagues. Not one! At least someone would give a voice to say, because we're in a coalition together, whether this one or two votes [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] without knowing what it's all about, but it's because of the looks of it. [[...]] However, since this did not happen, we discussed it a little more constructively. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u288	Mr. Clavor, I'm sorry. Time's up. I see another hand on behalf of the Member State, Mrs Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u289	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm gonna say I'm a little confused now that I've listened to Mr. Clavor's explanation for the voice in front of me. For I myself have also witnessed to the committee or the debate on the working body, when, if I am not mistaken, you have made a procedural proposal not to stop at every matter, every amendment and for a long time, to discuss widely the law and the issue of the law. I don't remember your constructive discussions either. It is not only my colleague, Žnidaršič, who has worked hard to prepare very constructive proposals from the amendments, that we face the ashes just before the present, or that the public will say, but the entire DeSUS Group is united. I will support this amendment, including for the reasons I mentioned earlier, today in explaining the vote to one of the previous amendments under article 50 of the Act. Because I say that the existing Ombudsman has only two deputies today. Mr Tone Dolčič - a deputy who, according to the news, also covers a very broad issue of health care, also covers: the social field, the work environment, children's rights, disability insurance. I must have forgotten some other area. I am sure that this person is said to be only one person who works 40 hours a week, like all of us or a large majority of us in our country, that he cannot, I will say, do very well or follow the needs that occur in our daily lives. That is why I say that it would make sense to adopt an amendment and, under this law, to appeal to the Government to provide financial resources - last but not least, the Law on the Ombudsman speaks clearly of the possibility that the Ombudsman may have four deputies. Whether to increase capacity under the Ombudsman Act or to [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] In the framework of existing capacities, the Ombudsman shall provide only for the area of patient rights. [[...]] That is what I think, my fellow Members and colleagues, that we are obliged to do if we have overtaken all the other warnings or very constructive suggestions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u290	Thank you. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? Here you go, Mrs. Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u291	Thank you very much. I also hope that this amendment will be adopted, because it would probably be a minimum of the minimum that could be achieved in some way in order to reach a person who would have at least something that I have already talked about before - who would be in charge of health only. This would be achieved to a lesser extent by means of the amendment proposed and by which it was intended to establish at least within the Deputy Ombudsman's Institute. Of course, it will be essential that what has already been pointed out is that this deputy would be solely responsible for health care, but not for five, six or not know how many extremely sensitive areas. And this, I hope, this amendment, is as it is, also guaranteed. And above all, what is important about this amendment is that it calls such a deputy, as well as others, the National Assembly. I think that by doing this, something that bothers us the most with the patients could be achieved. I hope that this amendment will be adopted, because much of this also depends on our reflection on this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u292	Thank you. What wish in your own name? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 61 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 42. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendments of the LDS MPs under number 2. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 44. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The next two amendments are essentially the same, but they are irrelevant because they open new things or introduce a new article into the structure. We are moving on to the 59th Article, where we have two amendments, which are also substantively the same, namely the LDS and Zares. I am therefore putting to the vote both amendments, or one amendment, of the two groups of Members. On behalf of the Member of Parliament, do you have a procedural proposal? [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You have estimated that the amendments for 55.b. are irrelevant. Would you like to ask why? In view of the fact that we discussed the amendments at the time of the debate, no one has warned us about this and we have been talking about these articles for quite some time. I would ask you why you have now assessed that two amendments are irrelevant, given that no one has warned us so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u294	We have also discussed other amendments, which have also become irrelevant, and you certainly know that the amendment, which is given to an open article or introduces a completely new article, is unacceptable at this stage. I don't know how this wasn't observed during the debate. But that's the fact. At the vote, we have the amendment of the LDS Group Members and, indeed, of the 59th Article. Mrs Zalokar Orazem on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Although I don't understand this procedural business exercise, which was done a few moments ago. I have to say, there is no such thing as not being able to bind content to some article. However, the content of the promotion of patients' rights is content which in any way falls within this law and has its substantive reasons. In this regard, I believe that the content itself is more controversial. Because the content talked about how these societies that work and work in the area of pooling patients from different fields would devote some euro to promotion, information, for what they do every day in this area. So, okay, it's a shame you can't make that decision, but it's all for nothing today anyway. I will no longer answer, except at the end of the day when we will give our full position on the law, because this coalition matter is going its own way, it does not look at anything and is actually full of arrogance, which, I hope, will cost you dearly this time, believe me.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u296	Thank you. I see another hand on behalf of the Group of Members. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u297	Thank you very much, President. I don't understand your explanation at first. Look, if you only read the dictates of this amendment, it clearly says, "for 55.a.," it says, touching open article 55.a. In addition, I would like to draw your attention because we discussed this at the meeting of the National Assembly at this meeting. Why did the Legislative and Legal Service or the President then not warn us that both amendments were tabled in non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure and are therefore irrelevant? I say, if we have discussed, if we touch on Article 55a, that is the doctrine of the amendments, because we have them in the review of the amendments, then let us discuss and vote on or vote on the two amendments. I hope that some rules of the game are in force in this National Assembly, and it would be fair for the Legislative and Legal Service to warn them in due time if things "do not count" as they should, or if we do not invent every five minutes the rules of the game. I will vote, and I hope you will allow me to vote on these two "yes" amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u298	Thank you. Anyone else? We're voting. The vote on the amendment of the two parliamentary groups is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 41. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the 64th paragraph, where we have three amendments. I shall put to the vote the amendments of the LDS Group Members under number 1. Mr. Germich, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the first reading, we have seen the law that the exercise of rights before the Commission is too complicated, that the Commission is too numerous and we therefore propose that the Commission consists of 30 members rather than 75 members. We also suggest that a committee with a 2/3 representation is charged to civil society. We therefore propose that 17 members of the 30-member committee be proposed and appointed on the proposal of individual non-governmental organisations in the field of patient rights or consumer protection, and three members are proposed by the Commission for Medical Ethics. In this way, we are confident, in view of the very content of the law, that health insurance rights will be dealt with under one law and that the rights under this law will be separated from health insurance rights. We therefore believe that the number 30 will be appropriate, that this will allow the establishment of ten Chambers, and that in each of the Chambers it will have a majority of civil society. We believe that the exercise of patients' rights can also be ensured within such Chambers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u300	Thank you. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 16 to 40. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the vote the amendments of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors under number 2. Mr. Žnidaršič, on behalf of the House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u301	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will support this amendment because it is even better than the previous amendment, because it is even more severe, the number of members of this Board of Appeal, whose estimated number of members is far too large, given that many or most of the infringements of the patient's rights are of a non-medical nature, will be many specialists, for example, medical professions in this 75-member commission for a decade without one single case of treatment and it is therefore pointless to put these things on such a wide scale, in such a way. We think it is better that there are fewer of them and that, on a serious medical issue, they demand an opinion from a sworn expert, because in a legal state that has something to do with itself, it is only that opinion then the right one, not that of a committee that appears at all times, and its representative of the medical profession in this role. In fact, I think of the work of the commission as something continuous, something that's going to get routine and not say the experience of how to solve similar things. It would therefore be right to have fewer of them, but to have more of them, and to have within the hearings complaints coming from the first stage. In such a large committee, every once in a while, one Senate will have one case in hand and will consider it without the necessary experience for this work, irrespective of the level of education of those present - I do not think that it is a good thing. At the same time, it will be more transparent, and I think it's better to have fewer. That is why I think that the proposal that there be fewer of them to work in these small Senatees - at least three will still be able to work - and for the start, for the first, second year of operation, until the need to expand these would be sufficient. We therefore propose that you support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u302	Thank you. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 42. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment of the Zares Group under number 3. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, voting for them 15 to 40. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the Zares Group to Article 66. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 42. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the 71st article, where we have two amendments. First, I shall put to the vote the amendment of the LDS Group under number 1. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I note that the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 71 has been adopted. I'm sorry I made a mistake. At the vote, I shall place the SDS Group's amendment under number 2 to the same Article. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 2. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We turn to the vote on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 73. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 42. [[118 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment of the LDS Group. Excuse me, we are here again in a case where a new article or two new articles are being introduced, which, of course, were not on the committee. [[...]] There are no these two articles and they are therefore irrelevant in the amended proposal for a law. It is said that both amendments or both new articles, as one of the amendments of the LDS Group to Article 75, are therefore irrelevant. We are moving on to the 80th article, where we have one amendment, namely the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u303	The amendment is irrelevant due to the non-acceptance of previous amendments, as is the amendment to Article 80a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u304	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mrs. Zgyner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u305	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Allow me, but I think it would be very useful to get an explanation of why Members and Members were not timely, on the part of our services, to warn that amendments are irrelevant. We have held a debate on amendments that have been duly tabled and, as it appears, have also been properly addressed at the meeting of the National Assembly itself. Today, just before the vote, we get an explanation from your side that doesn't even have any content that amendments are irrelevant. I think it would make sense, President, to call the Legislative and Legal Service and get a substantive explanation from it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u306	Mrs Žgajner Tavš, for the first time, the proponents of these amendments made a mistake. Secondly, your professional services in the parliamentary group have made a mistake. Thirdly, our professional services made a mistake so they didn't warn you before. Despite all these mistakes, I cannot put such things to the vote, unfortunately because they are contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Does anyone else wish to explain their vote to Article 80 or to the amendment of the DeSUS Group to this article? [[No, no, ……]] Then we vote on this amendment. There are 58 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 42. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We turn to the vote on the amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 80a. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 43. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We turn to the vote on the amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 82. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 43. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're going through Section 84, where we have two amendments. First, I shall put to the vote the amendment of the LDS Group under number 1. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 43. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the vote the amendments of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors under number 2. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 43. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We turn to the vote on the amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 89a. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 43. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the 90th article, where we have two amendments. First, I shall put to the vote the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 1. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 4. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the amendment of the DeSUS Group under number two. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 44. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We still have the last amendment, which is unfortunately also irrelevant, because there was no change in the title of the law on the committee. It's a mistake again. The whole chain of errors. I apologize for the professional service of the National Assembly. But your services will probably apologize to you. This concludes the vote on the amendments to this law. Procedural proposal, Mrs. Žginer Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Again, I apologize for answering. Really, believe me, I'm getting on my own. But you know, even you, if there's a matter that gets in your way, you have to admit a mistake, not accuse others. I simply cannot blame our professional service for the error that has been made on your part or on your professional services. That is why I say, Mr President, you have made a mistake in accusing the professional services of the Group of Members. I have before me, and I believe that the majority in Parliament, an official review of the amendments prepared by Parliament's professional services, not by parliamentary groups. And in this review, the formal review of the amendments, he did not warn that any of the amendments would be irrelevant. Therefore, please, President, an apology would be in place for the expert services of the groups of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u308	I think that's been said enough. I give the floor to the proposer of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the third reading of the Patient Rights Act be held at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u310	Thank you. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 18. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the bill on Wednesday 19 December 2007 after the final vote. The services of the assembly will prepare a review of the amendments adopted and of the articles to which qualified applicants may submit amendments by the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We are moving on to the end of the 24th item of the agenda - a mandate-holder matter. We are moving on to a decision on individual proposals. First of all, we have four proposals from the Council of Justice for election to the judiciary. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Alenka Loncnar to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 56 Members of Parliament and 53 Members present, against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Sinja Bozičnik to the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, for 50, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Cvetka Horvat to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Šentjurje near Celje. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, for 50, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Karmen Rudolf Bozič as judge of the District Court in Vrhnika. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members, for 55, against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We move on the proposal for a decision appointing eight members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing eight members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17, paragraph 17, of the Radiotelevision Act: the function of the member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council will begin on 12 January 2008. In doing so, I inform you that on the basis of Article 17, paragraph 9, of the Law on RTV Slovenia, if the majority of all Members vote for it, that is 46 or more. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Are there any more hands? Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u311	Thank you, President. We will vote against it. As soon as it was discussed, we justified the reasons. Let me remind you once again that this is simply a proposal that is not plural. The second reason is that there was no gender balance, although there were quite a few candidates who had all the attributes to be properly taken into account. And thirdly, the main reason for this is to demonstrate by this proposal how to create, how to design a human resources instrument for the political control of the main electronic media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u312	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u313	Thank you very much. We oppose the proposal to appoint members of the RTV Programme Board in the LDS Group. Now, of course, there are many reasons why this has already been said. I'd like to refer to what my colleague Yuri started before me. Simply, if we used "plonk leaves" some time ago to choose these candidates, then it was now that learning was thought of with some minor error. However, I must say that in this programming world, not only have we ignored women, we have overlooked a whole bunch of experts who could work on a programming world that has, given what has been going on at the last meeting, obvious big and serious problems with themselves. After a heated debate where the President of the Programme Council was warned about the human resources poverty of this important public institution, after more than an hour and a half of the debate, that the debate ends with one such banal finding that one of the exposed journalists probably has too much pay, of course this is not serious. If we had such people as Tone Vogrinec, who had taken care of the hours and hours of the programme, who had significantly more interest and enthusiasm in Slovenians than Spanish and Mexican sequels, if we had rejected the musician such as Mr Igor Vidmar without discussion, or if, for example, because of the balance of this space in this world, we had overlooked such a name as Mr Geza Erniš, then there is no doubt that - something is wrong with this story and that is not going in the right direction, because the program on RTV is not improving, we simply do not want to participate in the LDS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u314	Thank you. We're voting. You want more, I'm sorry. I'd like you to raise your hand a second time. Is there anyone else who wants to explain my voice in my own name to open the application? School and Gulic. Mr. Skull, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u315	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As usual, you are in a hurry to close unpleasant debates. Voting for such a world would be scandalous. For by confirming these people, we confirm this policy, which is trying to fully submit to public broadcasting. In a few days we will meet again and replace a member here who has begun to serve the SDS openly, and so far the SDS has been secretly serving as a saint in this body. What the ruling coalition has done is that a few people who have been appointed by the lot to exercise their supremacy only for a certain period of time are obviously not enough for you to extend it for the next four years. [[The ad in the hall.]] Mr. Bajc, for four years. So, [[End warning sign]] Here we are in a situation where it is necessary to say that the National Assembly is continuing with that policy that you do not honestly want to talk about. When Prime Minister Janš opened up certain subjects here, you did not allow us to talk about it. When we brought these topics to the parental committee, you didn't invite people. [[End warning sign]] Who could talk about it. Here you will confirm the people who will receive instructions in the back and work politics to the benefit of the ruling party, and you will be [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u316	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u317	Part of Mr Školč's story wasn't bugged, I'll say it out loud and you'll pretend to have clean hands. This, of course, enables the current law and, as has been said many times, things are clear and transparent. It is also said that the appointment of members of the Programme Council. We can agree on that, but certainly their work in the programming world will not be so clear and transparent. If we really wanted to do this, we would probably have chosen other people to work for the next four years in a programming world that would set up such a roofed policy of public radio and television. Whether or not the programming board is in fact setting up a roof policy, this is now a big question. As far as you can see from what's coming from public radio and public television, it's probably not so, but roof policy is determined by people from behind through their "slow" storyteller couriers. Otherwise, what's happening on public television would not be happening that it's getting more and more sophisticated. I'm not saying it doesn't have much more ratings, but ratings certainly aren't what the public service should be interested in. The public service must cut down to all people, and not only to the virtual majority, who spend their free time in part of the information programme, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And more at the party. [[...]] In recent years a type of public has disappeared from the public broadcasting programme, which has suddenly become completely marginal, so marginal that it does not have [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u318	Thank you. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u319	Thank you very much. We will adopt and vote in favour of this proposal within our Group of Members. This is a proposal made by a group of listeners and viewers, or by an interested public, not by the political public. We do not see any reason to choose those who have fulfilled all the conditions from the selection of candidates who have been intervened. The proposal before us is professional, after all of the eight candidates are three Doctors of Science, two Masters of Science and others, who are among the candidates, are recognised by the public either as journalists or as actors and otherwise. In any event, the Radiotelevision Programme Council has done important work in recent years. After all, the overall viewing of Radiotelevision programmes is improving, both in the field of daily news shows and in other programmes. It must be recognised that the Radiotelevision programme covers all interested public and, above all, those not offered by commercial media. And what's even more interesting is that many of these non-commercial broadcasts are even at the most viewed time, which so far has not been an accident in the current programming schemes. It is true, however, that some who challenge these proposals have different views, probably more political views. We certainly agree that the selection of candidates, which is also regionally dispersed, is good and that is why we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u320	Thank you. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u321	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It seems to me that today or tomorrow is an anniversary very important for Slovenia, Slovenia, an anniversary of the burning of Slovenian books about 400 years ago in old Ljubljana. And if, at the celebration of an important day of reform for Slovenians, someone warned the Slovenian public that Tomaž Hren’s figure or personality was unfit for favoritism at such a holiday, he apparently closed the door to the authorities called the government, coalition or National Assembly. And that's how it happened on the Mandate Election Commission to the candidate that we expected him to be elected. If you look at one of the Slovenian officers coming out of the week, I think it came out today, the history or biography of Tomaž Hrena was something similar happened 400 years ago, how they cleaned out from the then certain institutes of the system all who were working or alerted to the Slovenian word, to the Slovenian book, to the Slovenia, to the Slovenia, obviously this is happening to some today. But today after 400 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u322	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u323	Thank you so much for saying that. We have already said in New Slovenia that we will support this proposal. It is the choice of our assessment of eight good credible and complex people at this time. As my colleague Tanko said, among these three Doctors of Science, two Masters, much more than this National Assembly is over at this time. And we who sit here for these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, certainly cannot oppose this proposal. It is the programming world that creates or is supposed to create a public RTV policy. But it's certainly not the programming world that creates politics in this country. We are convinced in New Slovenia that this is much more done by Mr Toš with his polls, a member of the Society Zares, who, by the way, favors this party very much and at this point I see that none of their Members are in the National Assembly when we vote on such important matters as the Programme Council of Public Television. We will certainly support this proposal. Perhaps the only flaw is that there is really no woman among these candidates, unfortunately, as we have heard, these roles have been incomplete, so Kviaz has eliminated them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u324	Thank you. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 12. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 12.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Act. Since the draft law was not harmonised due to the adopted amendment at the meeting of the parent working body, the Government prepared the harmonisation amendment you received on the bench. I give the floor to a representative of the government on the harmonisation amendment. Can I help you? Here you go, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u325	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! The Government has followed the direction or determination of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and, with the harmonisation amendment to Article 128, merged the substance of the three laws referred to in this Article and thereby internally harmonise the found non-compliance and also link the provisions of these laws. It assesses that the issue raised by the Legislative and Legal Service has also been resolved. We propose or ask Members and Members to support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u326	Thank you. Do Members and Members want the word? First of all, the procedural proposal by Mrs Žgajner Tavš, then I will apply for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u327	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. You weren't there last week when we voted or were there before the plot, or you didn't hold a meeting. I'd still like an explanation. The harmonisation amendment is usually tabled at the time, at least that is the Rules of Procedure, as stated in Rule 140 of the Rules of Procedure, and this has also been the case. If there is a situation at a meeting of the National Assembly due to the amendments adopted, the law is no longer in line with another law. I ask on the basis of which the amendment adopted at the meeting of the National Assembly is adopted by the harmonisation amendment. As far as I know, all the articles are closed. Why? Because the government coalition has overrun all the amendments that have been tabled. I do not understand and would like an explanation, Mr President. I myself assess that this harmonisation amendment has been tabled past the Rules of Procedure and is therefore irrelevant.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u328	Well, Mrs Žgajner Tavš, this is tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The law has been amended on the committee, you also have an explanation of the Legal and Legislative Service, so I think we can proceed with the procedure. Anyone else have a procedural proposal? Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Mr President, what you said will remain and we will weigh these things. I think that today that you have previously rejected certain additions relating to those parts of the law that have not been amended, you have shown a clear way of how these amendments, which we now have before us, can also be done. The benevolence afforded at the beginning of this meeting by Vice-President Klavora would also be in place for the opposition and all if they were benevolent to the end and would also be dealt with by other supplements. Today you have acted differently during the same meeting and from this point of view is what Barbara Žgajner is asking entirely in place. All these things could be coordinated if any additions were adopted that would result in non-compliance. The co-workers of the Ministry of Environment and Space did not indicate that these inconsistencies would be caused by the amended provisions in the National Assembly. That is why we are in a situation where we are saving something that can very kindly be called the surface of the government and government services. These are things that should be resolved within the Government and, above all, within the Office of the Government of Law. In such a case, Mr President, you should do as you told your colleague Germić earlier that these are texts that are incapable of being adopted and that are only reasonable to reject and follow the course of regular regulation. What we are doing here at this time means that at another point it can be opened beyond the rules of procedure for the resolution of purely third matters. It's a very dangerous practice. So I don't want to say that these things that have been transferred here in themselves mean any particular danger. They're welcome. What we can learn from this is that it is not good for the government to stop people everywhere who know something. Since a large majority of these people have been driven away, things are coming to Parliament that have no tail and no head, and here they are being saved by old officials, which they can save. That's why I think it's wise to break it off again, to inside yours. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u330	Mr. Skull, I didn't expect you to perform so unfairly. I have before me a report from the Committee on the Environment and the Space, where a number of members of the Board have been modified. The harmonisation amendment shall refer to the amendment of Article 128. Article 128 of the report is boisterous, so please do not change, everything is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I am obliged to make an amended amendment to the debate and to the vote. I am concluding this procedural matter and opening an application for discussion. Anyone who wishes to discuss the harmonisation amendment, please apply. Mr. Skull, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u331	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The harmonisation amendment really explores what I call the government's surface. But before I know it, I have to say that the procedure is very simple. The committee's report was received by everyone, received by the government and, last but not least, participated in this committee. She obviously didn't notice what she was doing behind all her handiwork. That's why it doesn't change what I said before. When something is accepted within the committees that the Government is uncomfortable or wants to change, then we get very quick amendments, additions signed by Mr Presečnik, Mr Tanko, Mr Žnidaršič and someone else I missed unjustly, I think it is Mr Horvat. So these are the four people who practically have the scissors and the canvas in their hands, that this legislation is perfect if something happens to the boards. This time, a colleague of Žnidaršič complains. I think he's also one of those all-knowing people who's here allowing the legislation to be perfect. At least what needs to be said is that these universes have failed. But because of the cancellation, some parliamentary procedures do not yet need to be followed. The government canceled, and so did you. I tell you some things with kind words, and you say I'm incorrect. I don't know what this comes from when I point out that we are actually going into some proceedings, because if someone was very interested, they hypothetically allow them to challenge this law before the Constitutional Court, because if it isn't formally adopted, this could be one of the reasons for its challenge. Therefore, I still believe that when you come to a decision on these matters, consider what I have proposed. And I'm just going to end up calling a college and seeing if the damage that I'm going to say we're going to do this is no greater for Parliament than the benefits of repeating some process around things that are not really very controversial for anyone in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u332	That there would be no misunderstanding, I have put the harmonisation amendment to the debate. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u333	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You are in charge of the session, you have all the right, at least so you attribute it to yourself, that even business regulations are made in your own way, in the fact that you deceive not only Members, but the whole public. Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure clearly refers to the third reading of the draft law. The harmonisation amendment shall be tabled after the third reading of the law if the amendments adopted at the third reading at the meeting of the National Assembly change the law and a new situation arises which means non-compliance. This touches on the third reading, clearly and loudly written by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and practice has been so far. Therefore, I say that this amendment is not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as no amendments were adopted at the meeting of the National Assembly during the third reading. Even Minister Podobnik, who has been in your place a long time ago, gives me the impression that he knows the rules of procedure and the business procedure in Parliament. That's why I don't think it's fair, President, that this is how you deceive and adopt even the interpretation of business regulations. There was a complication, and I say that it would make sense to resolve the problem in accordance with established business practice, not past the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. What you said about the whole text being bouldered was the second treatment after the meeting of the mother's working body. After the third reading at the National Assembly, the law did not change. The legal and legal service has too late to point out the non-compliance of the law. I say that the harmonisation amendment is irrelevant because it is not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If you insist on this, I declare, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors, an obstruction and that this case will also be dealt with by the National Assembly's Business Commission. Even though you are laughing, President, it is not fair that you, alone as the first man of the legislative branch of power, violate clearly defined rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u334	Mrs. Zginer Tavš, you hit it so fast, I won't comment. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u335	Thank you for your word. In fact, in this package of legislation relating to the regulation of premises and the construction of buildings, what we have already warned about in the adoption of the law on spatial planning, i.e. it is entirely new, but it has also left the law on space regulation in force. This is, of course, a very demanding part of the legislation that can follow at some point of uncertainty, and these uncertainties have yet to be demonstrated in the very law on the construction of buildings to be adopted in the National Assembly. On this ambiguity, I must stress, the Legal and Legal Service has already warned on time 25.10. Therefore, on 25 October, in its written opinion, she pointed out the shortcomings in Article 128 of the Construction Act. She then also drew attention to this in the debate on the working body, but the applicant simply did not respond to these warnings. There is no way that we can talk about the non-conformity of the law because the amendments to Article 128 were adopted. This non-compliance is not due to the amendments adopted by the Committee, but is the result of the text of Article 128 already submitted by the applicant for the procedure. This really raises questions as to whether it is possible to table a harmonisation amendment in the third reading, which is supposed to eliminate the lack of consistency, since the law has in fact been inconsistent from the very beginning when it was put into the procedure. And even on this side, it's not about putting an end to the non-compliance over the amendments that have been adopted. Of course, I also agree that the business question here is whether article 140 can only be discussed on amendments that have been adopted or adopted in the third reading and the law becomes inconsistent because of these amendments, whether this can be interpreted and understood as a result of non-conformity and the removal then with the harmonisation amendment in the second reading. I would like to draw my attention once again to the fact that the Legislative and Legal Service has very clearly pointed out these matters, and in due time no one or in particular has responded. Otherwise, the same date as the harmonisation amendment also has an additional opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which also stated that it is not possible to achieve, in fact, by means of a harmonisation amendment to the proposed law, the elimination of all those legal and legal shortcomings resulting from the text set out in Article 128. I think it is also wise for the coalition to reject this amendment, because, in accordance with Article 140, it is then possible for the parent working body to deal with this issue again and then decide whether it is possible to submit a harmonisation amendment or not. If it is not available, the parent’s working body may also decide to reject the marriage. I also propose that those who wish to support this amendment do not support it and that, in accordance with Rule 140 of the Rules of Procedure, the parent working body meet and determine whether or not the harmonisation amendment is possible and the parent working body decide whether it is possible to proceed with the procedure at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u336	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u337	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! Let me take this one more time. First of all, I would like to say that, in its opinion, before we went to the parental committee, and then on the committee itself, to Article 128, it was said that, according to their assessment, certain solutions had been exceeded in time and that further consideration would be necessary for these reasons. It is on the basis of this opinion that the Legislative and Legal Service has adopted an amendment on the Committee, which, in our view, has dealt very well and properly with this issue. I don't know how familiar you have been, honourable Members, but here we go, let me tell you, it's a matter of land acquisition as a condition for the construction of buildings. And it's about connecting multiple laws. Article 38 speaks of the right to build Article 97 ZUREP speaks of decommissioning, while the energy law speaks of debauchery or forced service. The amendment adopted by the Committee and in the opinion of the Government correctly addressed this issue has tied the issue, and this was the amendment of the Committee, and this article applies to the regulation governing energy facilities, but for a maximum period of two years from the implementation of this law, to the regulation. We believe that the Committee has followed the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service correctly. Of course, in the third reading, there was a procedure, as it happened, as the Minister does not want to comment on it, we just want to follow the direction. I have said that we follow the direction of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and we have proposed a harmonisation amendment with which we have internally aligned the law and also linked the provisions of the three laws. And we followed again correctly the written opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which it prepared at the third reading. And we have come before the National Assembly to confirm this issue. That is how I believe that we have done the right thing. And there will be no misunderstanding, but we understand the additional opinion we have received today by the Deputy Head of Service, but we have not proposed a harmonisation amendment to Article 49c. We have fully followed the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and propose that the National Assembly should support the Government's proposal for a harmonisation amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-17-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u338	Thank you. We're voting. The vote on the harmonisation amendment is ongoing. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 9. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are now moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There is a full vote on the law. There are 55 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 5. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before interrupting the session, please note that the first item of the agenda will be closed tomorrow morning, please remove from the large hall all your folders, computers, pencils, as the hearing will be done in the morning. I also ask you to come a few minutes early, because at the entrance you will receive material against the signature and so on, which of course takes some time. Thank you so much for your attention and good night!
