ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 34th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Bevk only, Jožef Jerovšek, Darja Lavtišar Bebler, Janko Weber and Mag. Anton Rop. We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law amending the Act on the takeover and the way in which Slovenian railway undertakings are aligned in relation to the prestructural programme, the reduced procedure. I'd like to ask you one more time to calm down. Thank you. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Darjo Lavtizar Bebler. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Mr Bojan Starman, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I say hello to everything! At its 34th meeting, on 29.11.2007, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the proposal for a law amending the Act on the takeover and settlement of the obligations of the Slovenian Ironworks in relation to the restructuring programme submitted to the National Assembly by the first-signed Member, Dara Lavtizar Bebler and the Member of Parliament, Mag. Milan M. Squeakle and Bojan Kontic. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. We have also obtained an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service. The meetings were attended by representatives of the Government, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service and the proponents. The legislative proposal interferes with Article 6 of the Basic Law on the takeover and settlement of obligations of the Slovenian Ironworks. In fact, it is a twin piece of law that we have already considered on the Committee on the Economy and adopted an opinion in Parliament that the law is not suitable for further consideration. We have also discussed on our committee the proposal to conclude that the law is not suitable for further consideration. I will not repeat the reasons which led the bill's proponents in their desire to adopt this law, as well as the reasons of the opponents who claimed that such a proposal was the right decision, which was later adopted, that the law was not suitable for further consideration. We also propose to the National Assembly such a decision as we finally adopted it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the law's proponents, Mr Bojan Kontic, for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the mother's working body. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On Monday, the National Assembly rejected our Proposal for a Law on Privatisation of the Slovenian Ironworks, i.e. amendments to this 1998 Act, which wanted to correct at least part of the injustices that occurred to employees, former employees and retired iron workers in the process of selling the Slovenian steel industry. Small shareholders were harmed by selling the system of the Slovenian steel industry at a low share price if they were sold under conditions that the Government, as a seller of state assets in this business, reached. In particular, by selling the system of the Slovenian steel industry, they are fully affected in their interest, which they have consistently expressed, namely to actively manage the companies in which they are employed. The promises made to them at the time of the adoption of the law in 1998 were so broken by voting, including the current coalition in this mandate, that is two days ago. Although today's proposal for amending the Act on the takeover and settlement of obligations of the Slovenian Ironworks is substantively related to the restructuring programme on Monday's rejected law, and the correct purpose would be to adopt amendments to the Law on the Privatisation of the Slovenian Ironworks, but the law, according to our assessment, is not irrelevant. The law governs the exchange rate, in the case of the replacement of shares of the Slovenian ironworks, for the business shares of each subsidiary. The nominal value for the stock, 100 000 tolars, was fixed on 20.12.2001, and it is therefore fair to establish on that day the capital capital of the companies in which the shares are converted, since no interest is recognised on that amount, and no revalorisation. Since the representatives of the Government at the meeting of the parent working body ensured that the contract on the purchase of the Slovenian steel industry also ensured that the buyer assumed obligations arising from the adopted Act on the Privatisation of the Slovenian Ironworks to Small Shareholders in the case of the sale of an individual subsidiary, it is also reasonable to establish the fair nominal value of the share in such a case. Although it is unlikely that the owner, the new majority owner of the Slovenian steel industry, which is the Cox of Russia, will sell a separate subsidiary in the system of the Slovenian steel industry, in this law we regulate the real valuation of the input of small shareholders in the event of such ownership. The law simply provides that the amount of the share value received by small shareholders for their unpaid salaries, other liabilities and certificates in 2001 shall be compared to the actual value of the companies during that period and not to the value of the companies at the time of sale once in the future. In short, despite rejecting the Law amending the Law on Privatisation of the Slovenian Ironworks, we propose that the State Assembly adopt at least this law. We therefore propose that the National Assembly, by today's vote, does not adopt the decision of the parent labour body that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. The law is not suitable for further consideration, ladies and gentlemen. But the way you own it isn't controversial? There is no dispute that we have somehow cheated, I will look closely, 5,000 and a few workers, and that is not disputed. Is it not disputed that the President of the Sales Control Commission Mary is Zagozhen, and that is not disputed? It is not disputed that in fact 5,844 shareholders in some way came here with their representatives and reminded us of what was going on. That's not an issue, it can be overlooked. It's a robbery that's obvious. We're not going to support the decision of our mother's working body because we think it's unfair, and we should be banging some criminal on the table. Selling to strangers across the board, which is good, is common knowledge. The second case is more evident, for example, the General Navigation we even repaired. We put $75 million into the account and then we sold it to a stranger who borrowed the money for a week and then took it out, and his equity left it. That's what we do. Selling pearls, silver and chickens carrying golden eggs is no longer a foreign matter. Look, I'm glad it's less than 300 days before the election for that sort of thing. In the elections, you will be pleasantly, negatively surprised, and you will see that what you are doing today is taking away the right of those who are hungry today, that they are satisfied, in such a way that you steal from them what belongs to them. And these people didn't get paid, they gave up their personal income. And today you're not giving them any equity. You're saying the marriage isn't appropriate, so let's make it proper, because that's why we're here. What is the issue with this marriage? Legally, we can do this by correcting injustice. No, the more important is the stranger, the more important is the Russian, who made a promise to invest, that he will actually have two more years of workers, and then he can kick them out of the factory, so that the profit in the bag will carry them home to his vault, that's more important. Ladies and gentlemen! If you have this attitude towards citizens and citizens in the future, then it is really pointless for you to run again in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u8	Dear Vice President! Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues and colleagues. What was heard by the DeSUS Group in its consideration of the Proposal for a Amendment to the Law on the Privatisation of Slovenian Ironworks, at the meeting of the National Assembly on Monday, will be repeated today as we consider the substantive binding law. The fact is that the State has committed itself to withdraw from the economy as far as possible. Privatisation is therefore taking place and we believe that on the relevant legal basis and with sufficient transparency. Where this is not the case, there are means and means to investigate and correct the shortcomings of these infringements. Therefore, any privatisation project already implemented, whether or not to be dealt with in a possible procedure before a competent institution, will be an important final finding or outcome of an investigation that will certainly have certain consequences. As regards the sale of the Slovenian steel industry, doubts were expressed both about transparency and its implementation and about the valuation of shares. While there is no doubt that all sales interests have been given equal opportunities, this same option of treatment becomes questionable due to revaluation assumptions in 2001 and revaluations on the sale of the entire holding company and probably all of these concerns on the spot also because years ago about the company's good business and prospects as far as possible today, it was no longer possible to speak. However, the second part of this and many other stories on the sale of state shares and thus the withdrawal of the State and of important strategic economic operators is to be sure that business is correctly assessed with regard to important strategic economic operators, after entering the most favourable current sales that could be obtained on given legal grounds into optimal value and good other conditions. But I'm sure each one of these stories has two ends. The satisfaction of at least a minority and the disappointment and disfavor of those paid out of the game. There are certainly many scenarios that have been addressed with regard to the possible setting of the value of business shares or shares at the time of this year's annual valuation and the fact that we cannot do it with closed eyes is that the value of the stock is strong below the limit of the value foreseen at the most pessimistic event. And it certainly fosters concern about this, the effectiveness of the steel rehabilitation process, which has taken place today, some of whom have already retired, have contributed to the rehabilitation by denying higher wages also in the interest that in the future they can actively participate in the fruits of their denials, their contributions and the cancellation of the possibility of higher pensions and in the hope of compensating what they have paid years ago in the belief of some more favourable moment. Consequently, in the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that the treatment of both iron laws should be supported by additional documents and arguments on the existence of a relationship that would justify and require confirmation of the proposed amendments, which are otherwise acceptable to us, but also because of the other consequences that the amendment of the legislation would certainly have brought for the already existing contractual ownership relationship with our party at this time premature any conclusion, for both of these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u10	Dear colleagues, well-respected colleagues, others present. On Monday we discussed one part of this issue, yesterday we heard parliamentary questions relating to a similar topic. In short, the problem seems to be so strong in the case of Social Democrats that a whole line of issues has been raised in this regard. I am glad that at least a few things have been clarified in the sense that, as we heard last time, "I had a secretary but I didn't know if she was deaf or stupid" because the things that have been repeating in the last three days have been really a little stupid. Therefore, the sale of 55.35 % of the capital share of the Slovenian steel industry, which was made this year, was carried out in accordance with decisions taken by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with an international invitation to tender on which all participants had equal opportunities. It was also performed. It was performed, according to our assessment, at the right time and in the optimal way. 8 interested parties showed interest, three made an offer, the best bid was chosen and the country committed the most favourable bidder to protect minority shareholders, to at least at the same price buy back the shares of the companies authorised. Two of them accepted the offer, one of them did not accept the offer. Some would obviously rather see that the sale would have taken place at a time when the steel industry was in recession, because, if it were then, then we could not really talk about the purchase trucks of EUR 1 which could have been put together on the route Ljubljana-Koroška, but there would have been enough of one pocket to include EUR 1 in, as far as we have heard a recognised economist from Mr Mencinger, was offered at the time for the Slovenian steel industry. And it's only right that this scenario didn't go away. However, it is fair to say that the problem did not arise today when the price was set on the international public tender, transparent and when it was determined by the market, but when it was determined administratively in 2001. That's when you deprived these employees of what you're saying is that they're disadvantaged now that this sale was made in a transparent way. Because then you administratively determined that the value of their unpaid salaries was $100,000 in certificates. And it's true, what you say, that these people feel deprived, that they feel deprived. Just as we rightly feel deprived of hundreds of thousands of those citizens we have obtained certificates and we have invested them in various pike when we received between 5,000 and 10,000 tolls in the first stage of our sale for a certificate that said it was worth 100,000 tolars. And here is a totally similar situation, completely similar. As the problem arose when you administratively determined the value, so the problem also arose in the case of the Slovenski Ironworks when you promised people in 2001 that their share in the scrapped steel industry in the then situation in 2001 was worth 100,000 tolars. With any change in the law and what you're offering now, I think it would cause a lot more, much more new injustices than overcoming the old, much more new. And because of this proposal, it is not possible to accept. On the customer's website - by the way, this note was published on 3 March this year, not on 3 December this year, so it has been for quite some time since it appeared, and you are saying that the buyer is supposed to pay 300 million euros. Last time I showed this website, now I doubt that gentlemen, Lakhovnik, Rob, Mrs Beblereva, don't know so much English as to be able to read what it says on this website. So it's obviously a delusion. It makes it very clear that 55.35% of Slovenia's share of more than 300 million euros was sold and EUR 105 million was purchased, and 250 million was pledged by the buyer to invest in the modernisation of production in the future. So, I think that the process, as it has been done, has been carried out for the benefit of all, in particular for the benefit of those who work and who are employed in the Slovenian steel industry. Because about a bad half of this profit will go to the remaining shareholders, not just the majority buyer. In this connection, another claim was made that properties in Jesenica were owned by a Russian buyer. That's not true either. The land book is public. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the reasons for the consideration of this law are not met, so we will support the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor, on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I don't know why it takes this nervousness and aggression of my predecessor, the biggest client. It's completely unnecessary. You are no longer worth anything and no more important than all the other Members and Members of Parliament sitting in this House, so I would suggest that you are more exemplary and more fashionable next time. In the Group of Social Democrats we will vote against the proposal of the parent labour force, that is, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy that the proposal for a law amending the Act on the takeover and settlement of the obligations of the Slovenian ironworks in relation to the restructuring programme is not suitable for further consideration. As already stated by colleague Kontič on behalf of the proposer, the content of this law is related to the rejected Act on Privatisation of the Slovenian Ironworks, which you rejected in the government coalition on Monday, without any sense of redress for the wrongs done to small shareholders, but at least partially corrects the injustices that have been committed. In fact, the sale of the Slovenian steel industry was so low at the expense of small shareholders who in the past gave up part of their wages that things were being repaired, in addition to, of course, a large contribution of money from all other taxpayers and taxpayers through the state share of the rehabilitation. And that the sale was poor shows all the data available to us; that is, the documentation relating to sales prices and later the business results achieved by SIJ in recent years and the forecasts forward, such as statements by a number of distinguished experts in this area, and not least the statements made by the buyers themselves, the Cox business group, show us that the allegations of poor and overpriced sales are justified. Last but not least, if you sell S.I.J. for 100 million euros and if you buy it, you're already planning 60 million profits in the first year, and if the Slovenian bank is still very much involved in the purchase, which the same buyer accepts as a guarantee the shares of the company he buys, then something is not right here. It's a school case of tycoonization, not fighting a tycoon. And it was precisely because of this poor sale that those who in the past gave up part of their income and, last but not least, the current and future pensions for the rehabilitation of the ironworks in which they were employed were damaged. Therefore, it is all the more unusual for government representatives responsible for the poor sale of SIJ to reject attempts at real compensation to be received by shareholders in the event of the sale of subsidiaries of SIJ. The assurance of the President of the Government that there was nothing secret yesterday and that all Members could see was not valid until now. The representatives of the KAD and the SOD have been for two years or longer to avoid participating in the Commission on Public Finance and Budget Control and to clarify certain matters. So far, this cooperation has not been achieved. And that's why we need an investigative committee, because then they'll probably have to come. That is why, in the Group of Social Democrats, we regret that the government majority cannot afford enough dignity to recognise sales errors and correct them with the support of this bill. This only proves once again that verbal advocacy for the correction of injustices in practice and in real life does not apply to all citizens equally and in all time periods. We in the Group of Social Democrats will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Friday has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u14	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everyone. Members of the LDS have expressed our attitude towards the topic, which we are also addressing today by addressing this law and which we have already identified on Monday, when we have supported and, in fact, left to the coalition, and we believe that it will be the one who has to decide how to protect small shareholders. The fact is that doubts about the way Slovenian ironworks are privatised exist. And by adopting both laws, i.e. today's Act amending the Act on the takeover and settlement of the obligations of the Slovenian Ironworks in relation to the restructuring programme, we might find a solution in the further process of dealing with the laws that would satisfy such small shareholders and would not harm the owners. Regrettably, the coalition’s behaviour and vote showed an ignorant attitude towards the expectations of the affected small shareholders and also avoids clear answers to the evidence of oversales. By doing so and by doing so, he also assumes responsibility, politically, perhaps morally, and materially, toward those whom he thus rejects. So, more to say about the problem with all that was heard on Monday and what was heard is not worth saying and time. The LDS will support the law or the law and will not support the proposal of the parental committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The decision of the New Slovenia Group concerning the Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the takeover and settlement of the obligations of the Slovenian Ironworks in relation to the restructuring programme is to support the decision of the parent labour body that the law is not suitable for further consideration. There are more reasons for such a decision, and I will list only some of the most important. The law proposed by Members with the first signed Dara Lavtijar Bebler provides that beneficiaries represented by the companies of the authorised parties may at any time exchange shares of the Slovenian iron companies for shares of subsidiaries, which is contrary to the Constitution and the positive legislation of the Republic of Slovenia, and also contrary to the terms and conditions adopted by the buyer at the time of purchase. If unilaterally after almost ten years of validity of the law were to intervene by amending the law in the provision of the purchase contract, there could be a claim from the company which purchased the Slovenian steel industry because it would constitute an infringement of the rights already acquired. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that in a market economy situation we are not allowed to interfere with intervention legislation in business decisions of companies. For these decisions, companies have an economic management which manages and is responsible for the business of the company. It should also be said that the law could provide for the immediate replacement of shares of Slovenian iron stations for the share of subsidiaries at the time of admission, but not specifically at the time of sale, after having been in force for almost a decade. The proposed amendment would change the conditions to the extent that the entry of a private investor could be questionable. The Republic of Slovenia would therefore violate the principles of respect for the sales contract and related legal certainty, and we oppose the amendment of the law in the New Slovenia Group. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that a key error was made in 2001 when the stock value was set at 100,000 tolars and that it does not reflect real value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik, on behalf of the SLS Group, also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u18	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, distinguished representatives of the interior ministry! The proposal for a law amending the Act on the takeover and settlement of the obligations of the Slovenian Ironworks in relation to the restructuring programme is, in fact, linked to the harmonisation with the Privatisation Act of the Slovenian Ironworks, which was also submitted by the Group of Members. Of course, we cannot support the proposed law, nor have we supported the amendment of the Law on the Privatisation of the Slovenian Ironworks. The formal reason for the non-support of the novel is already mentioned in the rejection of the second law, and in substance the reasons given for rejecting this law are the same as mentioned in the consideration of the Law on the Privatisation of the Slovenian Ironworks a few days ago. I must point out that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we are pleased that the Slovenian steel industry has recently been in very good condition. Perhaps some of you remember the debates years ago when the Slovenian ironworks were completely bankrupt and wondered whether it was even reasonable to fix them or whether it might be better to sell them to an interested buyer for very small funds. It is clear that the value of Slovenian ironworks at the time was virtually nothing. And the Slovenian People's Party was the one who strongly opposed the sale of ironworks, sought to rehabilitate them and also prevented their sale. Today, it is clear that such an attitude was right and that our steel industry is doing well. If we did not then, there would also be no sales today, or the Slovenian steel industry might not even be able to do so anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item - First defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this bill, the Group of 14 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Mirano Potrče requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav, Minister of Transport, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Messengers and Members! In Slovenia, from 1994 to the end of 2006, we managed to halve the number of dead in road traffic. In 1994, 505 road users died on our roads in 2006 262. It is true that 282 people have already died on our roads this year, which is certainly very worrying. In Slovenia, as in 16 other countries of the European Union, we are facing an unpleasant fact today, namely that the number is not falling. In a situation similar to that of Slovenia today, the safest countries, such as Sweden, Denmark, Germany, have also been found. And also for this reason, for this very reason, we have decided to change this law. Tomorrow, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is expected to consider a similar road safety plan in 2008 and 2009, where it will specify activities and measures for greater safety. This plan highlights the systematic, professional and preventive actions of individual ministries and other government and non-governmental organisations to ensure a long-term trend towards reducing the number of victims on Slovenian roads. You have before you the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act, which represents only a small part of the measures necessary for greater safety. It brings a kind of news. The professional public working in the field of road safety has been involved in the creation of changes to the law all the time. However, their comments were more or less taken into account and undoubtedly contributed to the quality of the proposal. In addition to the amendments relating to increasing road safety, the law is aligned with the two decisions of the Constitutional Court relating to, for the first time: the treatment of road accidents with minor damage and the transport of children. It is also coordinated by Directive 2006-126 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2006 on driving licences and also removing a number of administrative barriers. In the area of security, an extension of the powers of municipal editors is also a novelty. According to a new report, in addition to the existing powers they have in the field of peaceful transport, infringements with electronic devices that automatically record the most dangerous traffic offences, such as speed and non-compliance with the red light, should also be detected. Since the proposal for amendments to the law also brings new news in the field of punishing the perpetrators of traffic offences, it is also right to talk about this. Some penalties are reduced, including by 50%, for the following offences: the duration of the driving licence; the offence of loading cargo and the liability of persons who do not require a driving licence for vehicles; the obstruction of responsible persons in loading and interpreting cargo; and irregularities in towing vehicles; irregularities in the pursuit and management of livestock on public roads. However, the penalties for the following offences have been increased, particularly for those causing the worst traffic accidents in our country: failure to comply with the provisions on speed with the emphasis on its overruns in settlements; aggressive conduction, braking and stopping and driving on the rear wheel, driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs; rejection of the test to determine the presence of alcohol and drugs, incorrect direction and direction, especially on motorways, and dangerous overcomings. Again, I should like to point out that punishments only increase for offences with the consequences of being dead on Slovenian roads. In the field of driving examinations and driving licences, and in addition to complying with the Directive on driving licences, the proposal introduces the following novelties. It shall be introduced: a single sample of the driver's licence, a polycarbonate card, a driver's licence shall be mutually recognised and so on. The law is, to the greatest extent, inter-sectorally coordinated and is also aligned with some of the representatives of civil society. Of course, as with all changes in the law, some of the requirements expressed on the basis of substantial arguments could not be taken into account. Members and Members of Parliament, I am confident that we will be able to find in today's parliamentary debate a number of answers to the many questions and dilemmas that appear in the text. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Boštjan Zagorac has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Let me start by saying that we will not support the bill in the Slovenian National Party. We have reasons for that, I think. Under some of the provisions to be laid down by the Constitutional Court, we have added 100 other things to this law. Today, here at us, the government is coming, "Give it to us, otherwise we will not be satisfied with what the Constitutional Court has said." I do not mind that the Government has changed these provisions, but I am disturbed by the fact that, under these provisions, it has added another set of things that have no basis, not in real life and are doing the law completely non-life. The first thing I'd like to mention is, Mr. Secretary, when you mentioned some of the civil initiative. I don't think he's in this House of Members who don't know what kind of sphere this is. That's the one that forced you a little bit to cut down on someone. But you didn't talk to those who would be directly hurt by the law. Unfortunately, given the number of drivers of Slovenia, I will say at the very top of the fatalities in traffic accidents. It's sad. But I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I also expect answers, let me know if the increase in punishment will really help reduce traffic accidents with a fatal outcome. Is that what we all believe? When we changed the penal code, you convinced us that lifting the sentence meant nothing, that nothing would go down. Today you're trying to convince us of something else. Tell me, what's the difference between someone who drives a village of 80 at 50, or someone who goes into paedophilia, murder, rape, anything else? I don't think there's any difference between these two. They're both breaking the law. They're both criminals. Why would a penalty here result in a reduction of a crime or a misdemeanour? I am not clear on this duality, and I will be happy to hear the government's answer to this question of mine. The second thing, the social component of this law, is to mention it. There are punishments such that someone in this country or 90% of the people in this country don't even deserve as much money as you anticipated. But that's not an excuse, that's not a violation of the law, and you're not gonna pay the penalty. Here I agree, and this will be your answer to this question of mine, but someone will, I will still say most of it, violate this law as it has so far, quantification, in what way, if it does not, man does not. It's true that he's guilty of breaking the law, but he doesn't, he doesn't deserve enough to pay the fine. When I looked at the most important factors of serious traffic accidents in the Republic of Slovenia, unadjusted speed was first recorded. I would understand how this Government would deal with reducing traffic accidents in such a way as to ensure optimal conditions for all drivers first. This is not the same as the foreign experts who came to Slovenia at the invitation of the AMC and found that roads are not suitable for the rolling stock located in that country. But perhaps also in a way and you can also take this as a proposal of the Slovenian National Party, for example, when we were doing driving exams, it was a lot of the first car of katza, fiça, stone, these were machines with 1.2 power, it had a maximum of how many, 42 horses or even less, only then they came to Renault 5, or wherever else. In this country, we have reduced the criteria for obtaining a driving licence to 16 years under special conditions. These 16-year-olds, the first car they sit in is a BMW, which has a machine capacity of at least 1,800 cubic centimeters, there doesn't have to be anybody doing anything, there just leans on the gas, and there's a speed of 150 per hour, at 150 per hour frontal impact, I tell you, there's no airbike in this country or in this world that could prevent serious bodily harm if someone says that the floor wasn't so safe a car, it's true, but at 60, 70 per hour I had a lot more chance of survival than I had in 150 despite eight airbages in this car. And if the government decides to raise the cost or the amount of the traffic permit, the technical review, because we know that cars come from everywhere, we also get them for small money in this country, credits, leasings we know that today is not a problem, regardless of whether someone pays or not, but if it goes that way, we could reduce the cubikatura of each vehicle in these young drivers and start rolling on the roads with one less powerful car. The law, as you suggest, will now kill all the drivers with these penalties and collect all the money they have, but this car will go as fast as it will go, and with the five payments it will have, it will hit someone else six times. The third thing I'd like to mention is the signalling of so much talk. I drive myself every day on the Maribor-Ljubljana line, Ljubljana-Maribor. The last 14 days have happened to me every week that someone has strayed and drove across the opposite lane, even a fatal accident, I think, somewhere near Arja village. Now let's ask ourselves if this is one case we can say that it's a suicide for someone who sees poorly or for someone who's been influenced by anything. If it comes to weekly cases, don't tell me that every week someone decides to commit suicide in a way that will run counter to highway 180 into another person. I don't believe it myself. Don't tell me we'll find a drunk driver every day or every week who doesn't see the signal, and he'll drive across the opposite lane. There's something wrong with the signal, sure, don't tell me it's not like that. And as I said in the introductions, let's all try to ensure the optimum conditions for the drivers first, and only then let us decide if this does not help, but then we can really raise the penalties, because this is the last extreme solution and the other is no longer left to us, unless we take their cars away. I don't want to blame anyone who makes the road. And the fourth reason why I think this marriage is completely meaningless. The fourth reason. I was probably my colleagues from Styria and Prekmurje, most pleased when we opened the Maribor - Ljubljana motorway. Now it will be from Murska to Ljubljana highway. We know from Murska to Maribor that in some cases, I have also asked Members' questions, there are no so-called SOS belts. It's supposed to be because it was feeding a little bit, but we've made these belts narrower than anywhere else, or we haven't made them at all. It's not supposed to be resting. Troyan tunnels lasted a year until someone realized that asphalt was so dangerous there that someone who drove 100 or 120 an hour on the highway was no longer safe. And every rain, every humidity, we've reduced that speed to 60 an hour. Not because of me or my car, because of the poor quality of the material on this road. To my question why 60, I was answered because 60 an hour is the speed that this asphalt carries. Last week, a Trojan tunnel was closed because of a truck crash. Don't tell me it's just this chauffeur's fault. It's the asphalt, too. First, let us lay the groundwork, some groundwork to raise these penalties, but not to strike across the pocket all over Slovenia, those who work and those who do not commit offences because this country cannot ensure the optimum safety of the road itself and of the roads themselves. Let's do this thing with another thing. All together, we watched contributions on various televisions as young people go wild or even stage certain races during the nighttime, for God forbid that anyone should be brought in the opposite, accidentally at this hour, along that road. Among other things, the camera also caught the police driving in, and one of the statements was, because we can't do anything. And they're just racing. Don't tell me! And everyone who defends this law today, keep that in mind first, only then will you raise the penalty. Raising punishment is the ultimate, final solution. These death victims, mentioned in the law itself, also include, the distinguished Minister, but you were not there at the time, but you were probably coming or being put in place at the time, such and different railway infrastructure and signalling. I'm sorry to mention it. I'm really sorry. Since a 21st-century country, a member of the European Union, does not make money in the budget to ensure that citizens are safe crossings across railway lines, then something is seriously wrong with that country and it has nothing to do with driving too quickly and not with the incorrect direction of driving. Gentlemen, let us first think about this and then adopt such laws as is proposed today. But this is the elegant and easiest solution, and I agree, without, in my own words, raising the penalties and saying, this country has done everything. No, this country will do everything when it finally decides who is to blame that asphalt in the Trojans is not good enough to fix on the roads between Maribor and Ljubljana - it is likely that my colleague with Primorska will say the same - will not happen every day that 60% of the highway does not offer the comfort that drivers would pay, even though we are paying the whole toll, only then come with a proposal to raise the penalty when you say, but now we have taken advantage of all the opportunities we have, and this is the only one that will help that people on Slovenian roads will not die. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u24	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister of Transport! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has set out the text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act and has sent it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the purpose of direct, immediate and visible effects on the current state of traffic safety or with the aim of reducing the number of traffic accidents with the worst consequences, and has extinguished the lives of road users. Statistics are unforgivable. The national road safety programme, which envisions half the fewer road fatalities by 2010, is all the more so than on the road. 99 people were fatally killed on our roads by 1.6.2007, and by yesterday there were 281 deaths, 30 more than at the same time last year. These data show that the situation in this area is extremely critical and that it is imperative to take measures that are more effective in preventing the plague along our roads. One of the measures is the novel that we are considering today. First of all, I must point out that in the DeSUS Group we have assessed the novel as completely inappropriate and inappropriate, not from a substantive point of view, but from a nominal point of view. In fact, a detailed review of the proposed provisions and a comparison with the current provisions has been extremely difficult since, on the one hand, the individual provisions of the proposal are infringed in several basic articles, for example, the proposed 19th Article intervenes in as many as 39 basic articles, the proposed 6th Article intervenes in 26 basic articles. On the other hand, an individual basic article is subject to amendments by several proposed provisions, such as Article 190 of the Road Traffic Act, which is amended on the basis of seven different proposed articles and Article 196 of Article 5 thereof. In addition, it is more appropriate, on the basis of the Nomo Technical Guidelines, to prepare and propose an entire bill, not just a novelty in the event that more than half of the articles change, but only rarely the provisions of the basic law that are not subject to amendment. However, as far as the content of the proposal is concerned, it brings a number of new developments, among which the more stringent punishment for infringements of road traffic rules caused by the worst traffic accidents in the community was that of speeding in the village, aggressive driving, braking and stopping the vehicle, and driving on one bicycle, driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs, the wrong direction and the side of driving, and dangerous overtaking. Secondly, what we consider inappropriate in the DeSUS Group, perhaps even constitutionally controversial, is the proposed seizure. The preliminary solution was even to take the motor vehicle back to the worst infringements of road traffic regulations in the last two years in the event that the offender has been penalized at least three times for a worse offence and that the worst offence is considered to be an offence for which a fine of at least EUR 250 is prescribed and a foreign sanction of the penalty points or a ban on driving. I should like to point out that the penalty of EUR 250 plus the penalty points already prescribed in the case of an excess of speed in a settlement of more than 10 to 20 km per hour, the penalty for such an offence is EUR 250 and three penalty points. Practically, in two years, the three-time offence of driving across a village at a speed of 61 km/h would result in the seizure of a car. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that in this case it is a total disproportionate sanction with the gravity of the offence committed. In addition, the applicant shall not provide for further proceedings in respect of the seized vehicle simply by being referred to the Court of Justice. Furthermore, it is not clear how to protect the rights of the owner of the vehicle in the event that the latter is not the perpetrator of the offence, but that third party is a serious offence committed by the use of his vehicle. Due to the inadequacy and inadequacy of DeSUS Members, we cannot support such a measure. We also have certain concerns with another extension. Members of the DeSUS cannot understand why, for example, drivers who carry a group of children are penalised by professional drivers who are substantially nicer than all the other drivers, since, in our opinion, it must be more the other way around if the penalties are to work preventively. May one answer, then, what kind of training is this for young drivers, or what message do we convey to them by punishing them with a lower fine than their parents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u26	All present, ministers and co-workers. On the basis of last year's data on the comparability of transport security of Slovenia with other members of the European Union, our country is only 20th place among 27 countries. According to the latest data, at the end of last year, it managed to reduce the number of deaths by only 8% and the average in the European Union is 22%. In this regard, in the Resolution on the National Road Safety Programme until 2011, we have written down that by the end of this period we will have a hundred more lives. The aim of the amendment is therefore to reduce the number of traffic accidents with the worst consequences. However, the law will include such supplements that have immediate and visible effects on the state of security. Infringements where it is undisputedly found to be the main causes of the worst traffic accidents are aggravated punishment, fines and the number of penalty points are increased. This substantially increases the fines for speeding, overtaking and psychological conditions of road users. [[...]] For certain of the worst offences against road safety, the seizure of the motor vehicle by which the offence was committed and the number of criminal points in road traffic is increased. As a result of these developments, road users are expected to be dealt with more quickly while simplifying the procedures under the Offences Act, and the primary effect of the sanctions at risk will therefore be more effective and more pronounced. I'll support the marriage proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! Probably not among us, but probably not one accompanying this debate that would not have had a driving licence or that would not have been tested in so-called public roads, roads and other infrastructure road facilities. Dear Members and Members! You must also remember that in this National Assembly, when dealing with traffic accidents, which represent one of the most tragic images in the Slovenian transport area, we even requested that we carry out a wider treatment of the state of safety on Slovenian roads. At the time, however, we were of the opinion that we would wait for the proposer, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to submit a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the road safety law. We have it here in order to deal with it at first reading, as requested by colleagues and colleagues from the SD Group of Members, so that, in these proceedings and in further procedures, the law will experience those changes and those additions which are necessary and which will somehow receive our support through consideration. When we talk about certain amendments and amendments to the Road Safety Act, we must certainly not ignore the fact that it is wrong to go to the so-called fines or penalties first. This may be saved in order to close the consideration of this law, because the articles that change the current fines and change them up especially for those who cause tragic accidents that have the worst consequences in traffic, because it is only in this way that we will create a substantively good law, which, as is evident from the content of the proposalr, is addressed both by the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Interior, and this is also very important, because even with some positive measures, the Ministry of Health, which in public opinion, has been involved in providing us with the necessary awareness when we are involved in road transport. This is also a contribution to greater security. The state of road safety in the Republic of Slovenia is in no way satisfactory, we are aware of both Members and Members as well as the proponents and respected and respected should be aware of this, especially when we step behind the steering wheel or when we take the steering wheel. Member States are making different progress towards achieving the ambitious objective of the European Action Programme, with a view to halving the number of road fatalities by 2010. In 2001, 50,000 people died in the European Community. The overall objective proposed in 2001 and complemented by the enlargement of the EU in 2004 is that the death toll by the end of 2010 would not exceed 25,000 fatalities per year. The proof that a better outcome can be achieved through an appropriate approach is indeed clear from the Member States that have reached a reduction of 24% to 49% in five years, such as France 42%, Luxembourg 49%, Portugal 42%, other Member States are lagging behind in the expected decline dynamics, including Slovenia, in some countries even growing, such as Lithuania by 8%, Romania by 7% and Hungary by 5%. On the basis of data on the comparability of transport security of Slovenia with European Union countries, for 2006, the Republic of Slovenia ranks 20th among the 27th since, according to the latest figures at the end of 2006, it managed to reduce the number of deaths by only 8%, the average in the European community is 22%. The resolution on the national road safety programme for the period 2007/2011, which in fact also dictates the pace of the law that we are considering today, sets the goal of maintaining 600 lives by the end of 2011, or on Slovenian roads, we must not allow more than 124 road users to die. These are in some ways, if we look at statistics, very ambitious numbers, but we realize that if there's anything more valuable, the greatest value of human life is human life. In fact, we should do this more often when dealing with these terrible statistics, and perhaps we should forget that when it comes to addressing such an important bill as the Road Safety Act, we are in fact obliged to engage Members and Members the most in order to take into account too many proposals, too many, by civil associations, highly professionally prepared proposals that can serve us in order to include them in the content of the law itself. When we talk about Slovenia and when we compare it with EU Member States, we also need to look at other areas of how other members of the European Community have this legal basis. And certainly one of the comparable countries is our neighbor, Austria, because the road certainly has us on these roads, and where we can try it also means something if you commit an offence, for example, in Austria. In the Republic of Austria, a fine of at least EUR 30 per hour is imposed in order to exceed the maximum allowed speed on the road in the village. If we look at the situation or the level of income on the one hand, we can see that this is not such a terrible punishment. However, if we look a little further, we can see that in neighbouring Austria there are fines of between EUR 218 and EUR 5,800 for road traffic under the influence of alcohol. For example, a fine of EUR 25 is prescribed in Austria for the use of the mobile phone of the driver of the motor vehicle. Why I am saying this - to compare it, because the proposal for a new law was actually trying to cut down on fines that are not so important and which do not have the consequences of some serious, tragic consequences. Therefore, when considering the proposal for this law, it should be mentioned that it is not only a matter of increasing the so-called penalties, but that the applicant has also followed some amendments to the effect that fines that do not affect do not know how important security is to be reduced; that is also what needs to be said. And if we find in the first reading that appropriate grounds will be provided for this, the law can be adequately supplemented at the time of the first to second reading, it can be amended, the time is sufficient, we can only deal with it and decide to give, Members and Members, our contribution to ensuring greater road safety. When we talk about other necessary changes, it has been said here today that the applicant not only changes the amount of fines but introduces some necessary changes, as the law needs to be amended or amended in accordance with the European Directive. The main objective of the legislative changes is to reduce the number of traffic accidents with the worst consequences and to place in the law such supplements that have immediate, immediate and visible effects on the state of safety. If we look at the analysis where we are talking about speed reduction and, as a result, reducing the worst traffic accidents, we can see that the effects of reducing road traffic speed are one that can be achieved as soon as possible and have immediate effects. However, when we look at the other formalities required by the European Union Directive, there is also a need for harmonisation in terms of the document, the driving licence which, according to some records of Slovenia and Slovenia today, we have at some point in the load of 100 million, 200, and that we are also reducing the duration of the driving licence, it is also necessary to take into account the fact that this means something in the Slovenian space if we change the number of driving licences into a million, million and 200. That's a pretty big number. However, if we want to reduce the driver's license, which we now have in this pink color and divided into three parts, to a form of ID, this is a comparable document, which is already a constant in some of the members of the European community. Allow me to speak also of past traffic accidents, which we have also been able to deal with and cannot, Members and Members of Parliament, after we have been faced with the tragic consequences of road accidents on the tracks or on roads crossing the railway tracks. Here it is worth mentioning that, both in force and in the proposal, in fact, there is a continuing priority for rolling vehicles, and so it is necessary to analyse these serious traffic accidents on the level crossings of the road across the railway, but also, as far as physical interventions are concerned, not only in the content of the law, but in the physical operations themselves, to ensure that these level crossings of the road across the railway line are secured, as we know in statistics that these are some of the worst consequences if the driver of the road passenger overlooks a traffic signal which is certainly in accordance with the rules of the road manager's obligation to set up appropriate signaling, traffic signs. And we drivers are the ones who have to take that into account. If we overlook this, the consequences are tragic, and in this context I support those who say that there is also a need for physical improvement in road safety in this area. Therefore, it is not only the content of the law that prescribes the amount of the fine and the one which prescribes a single driving permit document so that we can be credible with it in the Member States of the European Union, but that it is also necessary to provide for regulated road infrastructure in order to ensure safety. In particular, statistics have also reminded us that when we intervene in emergency maintenance works on road infrastructure, it is also necessary to ensure adequate insurance for both road users and operators themselves who perform essential maintenance work. Of course, this also requires substantial resources, which I am sure will also be provided by the future proponent to the National Assembly, because we have recently had the opportunity to accept the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and where we are on individual items of individual ministries, in particular the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of the Interior, we have been able to find that some items are specifically intended to do so in order to ensure physical improvement and consequently to improve road safety. First of all, I am concerned, as has already been said here today, about a newly built highway, such as the highway between Ljubljana and Maribor, when we, who use this road almost daily, cannot believe that in such a short time the newly built asphalt coating can be used to the extent that it becomes dangerous for road users, but this is already the second chapter, second reading, although it coincides with the general treatment of the Road Safety Traffic Act, which we are considering today at first reading. There will also be a need to speak in the area of safety monitoring on our roads. Some are in general debates on the street or in other areas of different opinion. Are Slovenian police officers enough on the roads or too few, or are we happy when we see a police patrol or are we happier when we see only a police vehicle? And in some standard places, police officers are also using so-called police vehicle settings in those places that represent one of the black spots in that area that they are doing their job. The effects are more than satisfactory, but of course the drivers and drivers are almost used to standard positions and we already know that this police vehicle is already for make-up, there is no one here, nothing happens here, respected secretary of state, but maybe behind these police vehicles, put on a live police patrol that will find that we are real drivers and drivers those who are quick to speculate and where we know in advance that this first vehicle is empty, and the next one can be equipped with police officers exercising traffic control. If we want to contribute to greater road safety, we must be aware, respected and respected, that no law, no resolution, no other document, no road itself, no road improvement, no road improvement, no traffic signalling, will be effective enough if we do not change our minds. I am sure that many of us who use passenger cars as a mode of transport are not even aware of it, I have already said that in this National Assembly, we are not even aware, at the moment we sit behind the wheel, at the moment we start the engine of our car and set off on a public road, we become potential killers. At this point in our consciousness, we may not miss any traffic sign in a narrow settlement that reminds us that we need to adjust our speed due to the danger or being on the road on foot, especially in cramped settlements, and if we then take into account the prescribed speed, which is beautifully and visibly marked by the appropriate traffic signal, we would also make a great contribution to the preservation of some precious life. I should like to conclude that, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will take into account all the positive facts that will make it possible to improve the content of the law in the first reading and in subsequent proceedings. We have plenty of time, and I will say, this opportunity to make our contribution to the content, to improve the bill on road safety that we have before us today and which we are considering in the so-called first reading. We are aware that we owe, first as Members and then as citizens, our contribution to improving road safety. This is indescribable, what is happening, but allow me to conclude again with the thought, no law, no good road, no good or bad car will give the desired contribution to improving safety if we do not change our minds ourselves, and give the greatest and greatest contribution to the right road users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor, on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u30	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone, also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. In its assessment of the status of the draft law on amendments and additions to the road safety law, the proposaler or the Government notes that the level of traffic safety in Slovenia has decreased and is not satisfactory in the last three years. Slovenia is moving away from the ambitious goal of both the European programme and the national road safety programme by the number of dead per million. We cannot help but overlook the fact that we have already discussed in this mandate the amendments to the Road Safety Act, which in fact allowed us to reduce the technical integrity of vehicles. We recall that we have adopted a law extending the technical review period from three to four years in the case of passenger vehicles, despite the fact that, according to the data provided by the most developed European countries, the state of the vehicle and the road somehow contributes 20% to the accidents that occur in traffic. So, it was a nice measure when red tape is removed and the technical irregularity of the vehicle is not a major cause of accidents. That's what we heard when this law was passed. Today, when we find that the situation of traffic safety is getting worse, we want or want the applicant to raise the driver's penalty for offences significantly more money than the measure by which he actually extended the time limit for you to carry out a technical inspection on the vehicle. Which means that we will not actually do anything good for the driver or the driver or the situation will worsen by adopting this law, as we continue to allow the driver to increase the likelihood that he is using a vehicle that is not technically flawless, but if he causes an accident, he will pay dearly for it. It's kind of a message from this marriage. It is also not in the state of assessment to track data on the causes of accidents due to dangerous roads. In particular, we miss an assessment concerning the technical elements in the roads, since many technical elements on our roads do not correspond to more or allowed speeds of 90 kilometres per hour, or even better vehicles with which drivers and drivers drive on our roads. However, the technical elements still do not follow this technological progress in vehicles. And if we add that there is also no assessment of the condition of the vehicles, that we are talking a lot about when we adopt budgets and when we see this situation, that there is actually not enough resources to make our vehicle's condition better. We can add that in Slovenia we still do not reach all those quality roads standards as in other European countries. In short, we also miss this law and especially prevention. The importance of prevention and training of drivers or road users is neglected. Public passenger traffic stagnates, high subsidies for rail public passenger transport do not produce results. However, we also have a feeling that the Council for Road Traffic Prevention and Education is lost within the Ministry of Transport. Indeed, this was also one of the important changes in this mandate. It was envisaged that the Road Traffic Prevention and Training Council would be organised as a stand-alone agency, meaning that it could act as an independent body. Well, this has changed in this mandate so that the Council for Road Traffic Prevention and Education has actually become a body within the Ministry of Transport. We have also noted this and believe that this area must also be re-examined, whether it makes sense that the Road Prevention and Training Council is within the Ministry of Transport, which is responsible for the preparation of appropriate measures to improve road conditions, to improve technical elements and so on. We believe that it would be far more effective if this world were an independent body and independent of an individual ministry. Surely, the Preventive Council would be easier to follow also the proposals that we can meet in the Automotive Union of Slovenia, which has somehow suggested that tax legislation can also influence the improvement of safety on Slovenian roads. In fact, we think it would be appropriate to consider the possibility for drivers and drivers to be granted tax relief or a subsidy for the purchase of a vehicle with an electronic addition to increase vehicle stability. We also believe that it should be considered, however, that a cheap toll is to drive on the highway mainly in those areas that are burdened by the day-to-day migration of vehicles when we are going to work or driving children to school. In short, we must be aware that too many local and state roads do not yet have built safe sidewalks, and that many times we face poor lighting of vehicles, and that this makes the safety of traffic through settlements significantly smaller than we would like. And one of these measures, to at least partially remedy such a situation, is to reduce tolls for the road trip to work along the highway and to take the child to school or kindergarten. So instead of preventive measures, the government is using repressive measures and by increasing the penalty, it is trying to reduce the number of accidents on Slovenian roads. In doing so, we also note that the law does not find any way to improve the working conditions of police officers and to increase their presence on the roads. In doing so, we do not think that we should be satisfied simply by trying to control whether or not someone is using a seat belt or by telephone or not. The important thing is that a police officer is present on the road, and this certainly contributes greatly to traffic safety. With regard to the state of the roads and the measures proposed by the Government in this law, we must admit that we are extremely negatively surprised by the Government's proposal. The condition of roads is certainly not such that they can take on ever higher and higher burdens. We are therefore surprised that, on the proposal of the Government, penalties are being reduced for employers who will have, if I may say so, cargo vehicles that will exceed the permissible weight and thereby overload the vehicles. We need to be aware that on average the cargo vehicle causes 33,000 times more damage on the road than the passenger car. And as a result of the bad roads, also due to the overload of cargo vehicles, drivers and drivers will pay higher penalties when they cause an accident. We believe that such a transfer of responsibility from employers when we reduce their penalties to other drivers and drivers is indeed not a suitable measure. Thus, in the Group of Social Democrats, we expect that in further consideration of this Proposal for a Road Safety Act, there will be a significantly greater emphasis on the technical integrity of vehicles, on better road elements and also on greater emphasis, prevention and training in road transport. We can then add penalties, but penalties that will be comparable in accordance with the standard in Slovenia. So, we must not forget here, too, that we must not follow up on some of the goals that we should have in law, that we want to have European or even higher penalties, and thus forget that in Slovenia we are still not paying at the European level, as in those most developed countries. In short, these are the data and situation in Slovenia that we expect the Government to further examine when considering this law in the second and third readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič has the floor, on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u32	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the ministries! I will say very briefly that we do not support the proposal of the Liberal Democracy Club and we will also vote against this proposal because it seems impossible for us to even amend it. There are more reasons for this, but I think that if we could actually include the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Health in the Government, and for education and other legislation, then we could come up with a much better proposal. And I think that we must give Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia this opportunity to the Government. It is said that the law should go out of procedure and a quality proposal should be drawn up, in cooperation with all the ministries that know about it and who can say something about it, but not that only two ministries, namely the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance, were involved here. Clearly, the budget hole, which appears to be due to the fall of various taxes, is, say, €10 million from casinos for tobacco law and other reasons, so large that it needs to be filled. If the urgency, if the real desire was to reduce the number of accidents, would, of course, not raise penalties for offences, but increase the presence of police officers on the roads, increase the number and capture of more drivers who violate traffic and other regulations. This would, in fact, fulfil what is the desire of the law - to reduce the number of accidents, reduce the number of deaths on Slovenian roads, reduce the material damage, reduce the hospital's shortages due to traffic accidents and so on. Because they know only when the potential offender is in such a state that he is aware that he will be punished for the offence. So, if he knows he's going to drive too fast 10 times, and he's going to pay 50 euros apiece of this eight times, he'll certainly be more careful than if his 1,000-euro penalty is so raffle that he can get it once, if he's next door, and he's the same. That's how it goes. And the fact that the police are reducing repressive measures is enough. She doesn't really care what's going on on the road, or the Ministry doesn't care. The police may be interested, but they have to write reports and sit in offices, not on the road. The 2006 data says: "Last year the police reported 499 000 22 road traffic violations on our roads. Of these, 285,000 813 fines or fines were handed down, in 53 thousand cases, proposals were made to bring proceedings before a judge and 129 thousand 894 warnings were issued." This is the 2006 data. Let's look at the data for 2003. At that time, 669 000 infringements of road traffic regulations were detected by police, 30% more were found three years earlier, 98 000 668 proposals were written to the judge, 54 000 550 fines were fined and 15 000 783 warnings were given. So that's the difference. And now we're wondering where the real reasons are. I'm not asking any more questions. But at the Ministry, you might be wondering, like, another year or two. I'm not going to talk about what's good, so the driver's license is internationally comparable and so on, but there's another thing about those penalties. You keep comparing them to Europe. In most European countries, the penalties are already nominally lower, but if compared with the average wage in Slovenia, the differences are enormous. It's just a mugging! Because we know exactly what we're going to do is we're going to be punished again mainly for affluent misdemeanors. However, of course, how traffic is regulated and how some things have been experimentally set up in Slovenia, such as the elimination of flashing red lights and so on, we see that the problems are much more. The fact that you are not on the road, that you do not know the things that are going on, also proves that the proposed punishment is only for driving on the last wheel. It's no longer a trend, it's not a trend, and, it's not modern, now it's only modern to drive in the front, and that's not punished. I'm sure you both need to avoid the front and the back. But, look, you're talking about the most endangered motorists on regional and local roads, yeah, but what you do, you raise your penalties, you don't stop or you don't suggest that you stop tolls for motorcycles, for one-way vehicles, or whatever this rookie is already talking about. Roads for motorists could easily be cut off, thereby increasing safety, more motorists would be put on highways that are safer, and the traffic flow on highways would be increased because the motorist spends on average three minutes and more to take off his helmet, take off his gloves, pay that tax or toll, cleans up everything again, and at that time, re-supply the tires with that grease and oil and all those cars waiting outside the toll stations. There's more to the solution. We talk a lot about knowledge, about the society of knowledge, about education, and nothing about this new proposal. Instead of allowing drivers refresher courses or committing them to go through the road traffic rules again in the course of ten years, because there are many changes that you will try to resolve these road fields and you will see that you do not know anything anymore. This option exists, no, it is not in this bill. I think it was too fast, and without any thought, what was at stake was set. It's a punishment. It is not yet two years before the new penalties came into force, and at that time, go look at the magnetograms, what has been told about how this will have a significant impact on safety, on improving transport safety. It didn't affect anything. True, Minister Mate once said that the weather is such that it's nice winter and that's the reason for it, but if the weather is the cause, then we won't be paying people for it yet, it's our fault that the weather is nice or something. Of course, it would be good for the Ministry to reconsider matters, the essential part of the amendment to this law is still linked to penalties, the rest of it can remain, but it would be good to do something about the maintenance of vehicles, so it is a technique, in general, for the knowledge of drivers, for the road infrastructure itself, to examine exactly what actually happened within a similar road safety plan. I don't think there's much. Finally, most importantly, police officers should be on the road, on the street, and in the end, deal with what they were learning, not to write empty reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u34	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr Minister with fellow Members, distinguished other representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We started this debate in a very sad spirit. Several of my speakers spoke of the dead this year on Slovenian roads. This is a statistic that certainly hurts everyone, and I would like to see a little more of this House of the National Assembly when we consider such an important document when we are trying to improve traffic safety on Slovenian roads, so we are talking about a bill for which we hope in New Slovenia and expect it to contribute to greater safety in Slovenian road transport. Any traffic participant or user of a transport service wishes to have such a system, i.e. safe. A system that meets his needs and expectations. The quality of life of all citizens and citizens depends on the level of road safety. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that a number of technical measures have been taken to increase transport safety. We are also convinced that we have done little and not enough to call road users to a greater concentration during driving, to a greater tolerance for other road users, and, above all, we are under-emphasis on the importance of transport culture, transport ethics and solidarity. Ensuring greater security can be achieved by encouraging road users to behave more responsibly, respect for regulations and creating awareness of the importance of traffic safety, the provision of safer vehicles and road infrastructure, which can and must be applied by planners, manufacturers and operators, maintenance and appropriate surveillance services. The creation of a national road safety programme aims to create conditions for Slovenian companies and individuals to be involved in the process of reducing the risk of accidents and the risk of injuries, as only with combined strength will we achieve a higher level of safety and at the same time reduce the negative consequences of traffic accidents for all road users. In a complex system, road safety depends on responsible conduct by an individual, educational and preventive organisations, media, repressive and judicial authorities, civil society, businesses, the management of self-government local communities and, last but not least, the State authorities, including the National Assembly. Each has its own share of responsibility for greater security and can contribute to its achievement, but the security objectives set can only be achieved through concerted measures and joint efforts. Man is the weakest member of the transport system, as his faults or conscious breaches of the rules contribute significantly to the occurrence of accidents. That is why they need to be prevented and reduced by individual measures or the whole system. The measures in the draft law are thus directed at road users. In January this year, we adopted a resolution on the national road safety programme for the period 2007 to 2011. In the meantime, we have committed ourselves to reducing the number of deaths by half by 2010 in line with the European Action Plan. Since 2005 the number of deaths on our roads has been decreasing, only these have started to grow in 2006 and this year. We are aware that we have been in the European Union for the fourth year now, that the Slovenian road system is an integral part of the European road network, that road traffic in Slovenia has increased dramatically during this period, that Slovenian roads are oversaturated, mainly by transit freight. These are all facts and also causes that affect a large number of tragic traffic accidents on our roads. The government has prepared a new law on road safety to address the causes of the worst accidents and reduce the number of deaths on our roads. Infringements that are irrefutablely identified as the main causes of the worst traffic accidents are exacerbated by the increase in fines and the increase in the number of penalty points. These include, in particular, high speed limits, aggressive seduction and braking, driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs, and dangerous overtaking. Infringements that are not or are not common in relation to the worst traffic accidents are reduced. The law is aimed at short-term elimination and improvement of road conditions. Compliance with traffic rules is certainly affected by high penalties, especially if there is a high likelihood that the offender will be punished and that the penalty will also have to be paid. The amount of the fine is a question of justice around the world. The penalties provided for in the new law certainly mean a social breakdown for at least the socially weak, and the wealthy also pay high penalties easily. The introduction of higher penalties should be followed later by other measures, notably road traffic prevention and education. In ensuring greater safety on our roads, we will also have to pay attention to the construction of new and old road infrastructure. According to the New Slovenia Group, greater security can only be achieved by intensifying the training of drivers. Good education is needed in youth, and above all it is a good example. The media, the Road Traffic Prevention and Education Council and the school can play a key role here, particularly in raising awareness of drivers and drivers and by highlighting the cultural mode of driving. In Novi Slovenija we also ask ourselves whether the police have to the last exhausted the provisions of the current law. Only effective implementation of the law can produce adequate results. A fine example is France, where the number of deaths in traffic accidents decreased by 35% after they acquired 1,500 stationary radars and so effectively started punishing everyone who exceeded the speed limit. The country should start with preventive actions and other measures such as road improvement and preventive road police presence. This is the only way to start implementing the Resolution on the National Road Safety Programme, which was adopted at the beginning of this year in this National Assembly. Safety on our roads is primarily in the hands of those who have a steering wheel in their hands. In order to minimize the so-called human factor in tragic traffic accidents, it is necessary to start with a human being, in education, in the formation of human consciousness, behaviour and culture from the tenderest childhood years forward. But even here in this National Assembly, we were not united in adopting the new Law on Primary School, which gave or gave more weight to education. There have been many contradictions, and we say that it is right for children to be raised even when it comes to traffic safety. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here again are holidays, Christmas, New Year, when we also give gifts to each other, parents also gift their children, sometimes with meaningless or even dangerous gifts. Ladies and gentlemen, dear parents, I would like to ask you to consider whether this year our children, young and inexperienced drivers for Christmas New Year's gift may pay for a school of safe driving, where an inexperienced young driver on the track can face many real situations on the road, such as the slip of a vehicle or the loss of power over the wheel. This is our call not to make safe driving to school providers more profitable, but because we do not want to light candles on our children's roads. The upcoming novel of the Road Safety Act is a well-meaning attempt by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to act quickly on the basis of tragic accidents on Slovenian roads and try to stop the trend of increasing traffic accidents. In this case, in the New Slovenia Group, we support the Government in this amendment of the law and propose that the law be granted to the appropriate working body, where the text will be improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished representatives of the government! We have already heard a lot about the consideration of the bill today, a lot of it also has pure wine, it also has some rain, let's say one of these rains is in Article 6 of this Act, says that it must not be driven on one bicycle, not the last or the front. Just for, maybe for an introductory or an introductory. Road safety in Slovenia is certainly not at a high level, I think that we have agreed on this by all the discussers, and we are also reminded of this by everyday black chronicles that testify to many fatalities on Slovenian roads, especially in the last year, the figures on the number of deaths are all earlier than acceptable or reasonable. Discussions on what is to blame for the situation in which we are are are always present in both the professional and the general Slovenian public. There is always a discussion of preventive measures on the one hand and the associated driver culture and penalties or repression on the other. Despite all the efforts to regulate this area, unfortunately, the results are far from showing success or a trend of improvement. The comparative practice of some countries shows that results can also be achieved in this area. Of course, this requires clear and decisive measures, both in preventive terms and in constant repression or traffic control. The resolution on the national road safety programme has set an ambitious goal of reducing the number of fatal accidents. The current trends since 2003 show a resurgence of fatal traffic accidents. The most common causes or factors of serious traffic accidents are, according to the information provided by the competent ministry in the introduction of the law, in particular the unadjusted speed, the irregular side or direction of driving, non-compliance with the rules on advantage and incorrect overcoming. Therefore, the Ministry, by proposing a law, is proposing more severe penalties for major or major offences, which is to exacerbate repressive policies. We are probably all well aware of the last amendment to the law, which, in view of the previous situation, introduced a much more severe penalty. The effect was due to a broad debate in the public and the fact that the higher penalties were known to all drivers, according to our assessment good, otherwise short-term, but almost all drivers complied with traffic regulations, which were the most felt in the cities and settlements where the prescribed speed limits were observed. In time, however, the situation returned to its stable tracks, which is certainly bad. But the key is to find the cause. The fact that there were not enough police officers on the roads to monitor the operation or course of traffic itself and respect for traffic regulations clearly contributed to this. This, of course, also gave drivers a sense of less control and, above all, felt that the danger of encountering police control was very small. We therefore believe that, together with the adoption of the bill, there will also be a need to strengthen the control of traffic or the implementation of the provisions of the law. We are aware that the police are facing a shortage of personnel and that this may also make the situation as it is. However, there will also be a need to ensure that police personnel are strengthened if we want this to contribute to greater safety in the transport of all participants. In the Slovenian People's Party, we think that the lack of culture in road transport is one that makes Slovenian drivers careless, nervous and premature. Too many drivers are still on the phone when driving, and this certainly increases the driver’s integrity. If we compare our country with foreign countries, we soon find that people have a completely different relationship to transport, at least in most countries. They are more aware of the fact that driving is not only about our safety but also about the responsibility of other road users. It is interesting that when Slovenians cross the state border, we immediately begin to respect and respect the road rules or signs set out for our safety. In our view, we should focus much more on young drivers who are causing many accidents. Much more needs to be done in the direction of their education and learning of culture in transport, as the school programmes do not pay enough attention in our opinion. The driver’s license for young people is too similar to knowledge or driving control. However, we all know that it takes many years for an experienced driver, many miles, and unpredictable situations that drive us down as drivers. We welcome the fact that the bill raises the age of bike drivers from 14 to 15. It is thus possible to increase traffic safety for the youngest drivers, who are often the most courageous players in the transport sector, at least a little. As I have already mentioned, safety in traffic is not only a matter for the driver himself, but also for all participants in traffic. I'd like to put children's safety in particular here. We witness many scenes on the road when children sit in the front seat and are not even tied with a seat belt. In this area, penalties should be further increased, as children are certainly the most vulnerable group of the population using turnover. The draft law also lays down the conditions for the transport of a group of children, in particular the conditions to be met by the driver carrying the children. The owners of a bus carrying children must carry out specific preventive checks, which we believe will be good and will have a good impact on the safety of the transport of children. The conditions for such transport must be particularly strict and further attention should be paid to ensuring that such transport is carried out by the competent authorities. As such, the bill seeks to achieve the same objective that all of us involved in road transport in one way or another is to reduce the number of road accidents with a fatal outcome. As already mentioned, in the Slovenian People's Party, we are working primarily to change the attitude of Slovenians towards transport safety. We want to increase our awareness that driving is actually a great responsibility to ourselves and to other actors in transport. Much attention should be paid to the education of young drivers who need to learn road culture. Speeds as the first cause of accidents should all be afraid and aware that time is not money, but that time is life. It may not be bad to introduce any additional measures that would have a strong preventive measure or effect, as an example, to indicate a mandatory visit to the rehabilitation institution by a lecture on the consequences of road accidents prior to carrying out the driving licence. I believe that the actual confrontation of a young man to a class who, as a member of a traffic accident, became a permanent disability would give a lot of thought to the many before they decided to speed up or drive under the influence of alcohol or other dangerous substances. The other thing to mention is the restrictions on vehicles for young drivers, for young drivers are often gifted or bought older cars themselves, and they are most fascinated by the engine’s power and speed. It is worth considering to limit for young drivers the driving of cars whose power exceeds a certain limit or limit. Many young people, because of the power of cars and the false sense of driving, cause traffic accidents with fatalities, and not often do so themselves. Finally, I must stress once again that it is a key responsibility, the key to being responsible to realize that, as road users, you can cause disability and death to someone who does not respect traffic rules. You can kill someone, because of a foolish driver, children can lose their father and mother. It is therefore the responsibility of each driver to be aware that traffic rules are for the protection of other road users and not for restricting drivers to their driving. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will vote for the above reasons and the fact that this bill indicates solutions to reduce traffic accidents, reduce traffic accidents with fatalities, vote in favour of the bill's proposal that it is appropriate, and in the parliamentary group we expect the proposer to re-examine some of the possible excessive measures in our view for offences that may result in the worst of accidents, including fatalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Ms Cveta Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr Minister and representatives of the ministries! We all agree that road safety is unsatisfactory and that road transport is becoming the most dangerous mode of transport. At the same time, the number of vehicles and drivers is constantly increasing. In the vast majority of regulated companies, many actions and actions are being tackled by reducing the number of victims despite increased motorization. In doing so, we have not been successful in Slovenia in the last period. Moreover, we are among those in Europe who have the most fatal traffic casualties. We're in a bad 21st place between the 27 countries. At the end of 2006, we adopted a national road safety programme and apparently there was a dead letter on paper, at least with regard to the goal of halving the number of road victims by 2011, which would mean 124 deaths per year. But we have the opposite of what's happening this year. The number of victims has increased since the previous year and has been growing ever since 2005. So in 2005 we had 257 victims, and in 2006 262, we already have 282 victims. There is aggression on Slovenian roads. There is an incredible sense of ingenuity, primitive violence, and ruthless blackmail. This is what the foreigners who are watching us are telling us, and we know that if we drive on foreign roads and find that there is no such rush, there is no hurry for drivers to respect each other and protect each other. From the changes to the law before us, it seems that those responsible are looking for the only way to reduce the number of victims and increase traffic safety in increasing penalties. We do not really agree with this in the Group of Members, and we will not support these solutions. However, we would like to point out that the problem is much more complex and complex, so that it can only be solved through repressive measures to increase the penalty, to those responsible, the Minister of the Interior of Matei, the police and the Ministry of Transport. In fact, we would like to point out in particular the fact that in recent years, in our view, police behaviour and action have changed deliberately. It is interesting to point out in particular the 2005 opinion or forecast issued by State Secretary Vinko Gorenak that the new Government will advocate a reduction of traffic police measures. In the same way, Minister Mate announced that in the past, a different work of the police was being carried out by an indictment of overrepressive action. Its orientation was to reduce punishment while increasing traffic safety. Unfortunately for this second objective, this is an increase in traffic safety when reducing police action has not been achieved. Our assessment is that this has in practice been demonstrated mainly by the withdrawal and absence of the traffic police on our roads. It is true that the police are not the only ones responsible for what is happening in traffic, but it is very important. In doing so, we wonder whether such a new paradigm is correct and appropriate or whether instead of increasing the penalty, it would be necessary to think more about the fact that the police would increase their presence on the roads, increase their activity with regard to the verification of alcoholism and excessive speed, as well as the two most frequent causes of fatal accidents. Just one scary case. The increase in highly alcoholised accidents in 2006 is 6% relative to 2005. However, alcoholism between drivers and road traffic violators increased by 16%. In this regard, in the Group of Members, we really believe that more than just punishment and high penalties, an important feeling and behaviour of drivers, there is a high likelihood that you will be caught in a violation. Expert analyses and studies have also been carried out abroad on this psychological effect. The legal theory, which has already been confirmed several times in practice, says that only high penalties at risk do not reduce delinquency. According to these studies, the amount of penalties is of a kind of secondary importance. Now for some of the road safety observations. When we examine where the most accidents occur, we find that it is on local roads outside populated areas. In doing so, we must and we want to reiterate the dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction with the solutions brought by the Law on the Municipal Government, since the care for traffic on the local road network has been transferred to poorly equipped, human resources weak, unexperienced municipal red tape services. These services will only be designed, and the editors are just getting their education. But the situation is the most unsustainable on local roads. Nor can we go beyond the question of the adequacy and appropriateness of sub-legislative acts and regulations governing road traffic signalling. Thus, in general, where traffic signs are particularly noticeable, their far too much density, which causes problems to the driver, as it is difficult to distinguish less and more important things from a multitude of different signs, tables and notices along the road. The appropriateness of road repairs and road closures should also be examined, and we are also reminded of the poor estimates of foreign observers. However, a particular problem is caused by faults in driving on the wrong lane, which mostly end in the most tragic ways. This is particularly necessary to investigate and determine, since this is more from day to day on newly built roads, on newly built connections, obviously something is wrong. More and more frequently, they warned that in Slovenia we have a lack of strictly structured identification of mental and physical ability for older drivers. There is no proper flow of information, no proper control and no control. Older drivers, however, find themselves increasingly difficult in new conditions, such as in circles and with extremely fast traffic. Many older drivers are self-initiatingly slowing down because they feel threatened and many are driving in inappropriate psychophysical conditions, with which they endanger themselves first and then others. On the day-to-day ride, we can see that there is something perfectly normal for us to call while driving and without spacious devices, people have money for modern and state-of-the-art cars, and apparently they are running out of money to buy spatial phone connections. I'm sure it's been quite a few bad accidents since the phone call. Certainly there is no real prevention by warning, nor is there any real persecution of this dangerous habit. Come in. So far, we have all known that the cause of many accidents is also a poor condition and a lack of maintenance of our roads. So we accelerated the construction of highways and somehow calculated that this would help a smaller number of victims. In recent times, however, we can be surprised to learn that many things are also wrong with new constructions, including our highways. On highways, for example, we found that we had poor and inappropriate asphalt in the tunnels, that we did not build runways on new sections of the road. The layman can also see the difference between driving in the rainy weather along newly built roads abroad and with us. The fact is, obviously, we do not build with the most suitable and safe asphalts, since for vehicles in the rain, visibility is poor or a few times worse than we can see abroad. That is why I call on those responsible, especially the Minister of Transport, to consider whether we have chosen or chosen and whether we are integrating into our motorways, as well as other roads, the most appropriate and safe type of asphalt. Increasingly, they also warned about the situation in the schools. They say everything's not all right. There is certainly an increasing number of indications that the quality of education has decreased significantly, that entrepreneurial thinking prevails many times, that it aspires to quantity rather than quality. In the Member Group, we also propose that, given the great problem of alcoholization of drivers, training on the consequences of alcohol in the blood of drivers and prevention in this field be included in the mandatory programme in obtaining driving licences. In our opinion, in Slovenia, there are not enough propaganda and educational actions to promote changes in our behaviour on the road, reducing aggression, reckless driving, driving under the influence of alcohol. This is also what experts are talking about. For example, Bojan Žlender, who reminds us of the reduction in funds for such matters, is given annually about as much as the cost of a more serious fatal accident, if I say so. We have money to promote meat consumption, and we have not seen anything attractive and innovative in this area in a long time. There's some will and desire, ingenuity, but far too little in terms of the consequences. What is the government's attitude in the field of prevention and transport education, as well as the fact that the only organisation that has worked in this area has been abolished since 1972. I am talking about the Road Traffic Prevention and Education Council, which some colleagues have been talking about today as though it exists. Their tasks were to be carried out by the planned agency, and in the meantime this has also changed. And we will not have agencies now, but these tasks will be transferred to the Ministry of Transport. So, we've taken care of education and prevention to the bureaucrats who work, according to my assessment, too hidden somewhere in the structure of a huge ministry. Surely the Council's past performance has been good, and it seems that our Government is not aware of the problem of transport safety and that they do not know what the Council has done in the past for transport education and prevention during this period. Again, we went into an organization, perhaps even because of some human resources incompatibility, which led us to quit the good. In this regard, data on the number of child victims are also worrying. In this particular segment, in the past, in my opinion and in the assessment of our Zares Group, the Council has been sufficiently successful in its work. While we lost three children on the roads between 2001 and 2003, the numbers have increased dramatically over the last period. In 2004, we had 6 victims, in 2005 we had 9 victims and in 2006 we had 7 victims. In short, essentially too much. However, the situation is also greatly exacerbating the large proportions of transit freight that are still taking place on regional and local roads. Despite some attempts, no significant improvement is observed. In particular, freight vehicles use these roads because they avoid toll payments and use local and regional road infrastructure, which is already in poor condition and leads beyond densely populated areas. Despite the fact that, before us in 2008, when the previous Minister, Mr Bozič, made a public promise to introduce experimental electronic tolls in Slovenia, first in the field of freight vehicles, this is not yet in sight. Now, in the past week, it has been made public that this may happen in 2009. At the end of 2008, I expect it to be said that this could happen in 2010. Now everything has actually been moved again, and I think that these grades, as in that show where it was said, are probably unrealistic. Vinete, who in this area would bring the best results with a flat-rate amount, is a compulsory ride on highways, as well as, in fact, the destimulation of local roads, which has been rejected two years ago by former Minister Christmas with false arguments and promises, data and analyses. In the Group of Members, we will not support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Traffic Safety, because it seems to us that we are building an increase in traffic safety solely on the increase of the penalty, but we have not seen in other areas - many of which we have also listed in our contribution today - substantial changes, but rather the earlier deterioration of the situation, that is, because of this and these causes of this law and we will not support these changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Franz Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! The state of safety on our roads is poor, trends are worrying and it is imperative to act. This makes it difficult to understand all those who oppose any legal change that opposes the introduction of new rules in this most important area of our lives. Mobile, as we are, we are simply, whether we are willing or unwilling, participants in this process, which unfortunately is all too often accompanied by frightening, frightening scenes that we have witnessed on our roads and which are due to my conviction mainly to uncontrolled, unbridled wildling on the roads of all kinds and all categories. This savagery simply has to end. There's probably a number of ways to do that. I do not have myself as an expert, but I believe that one of the essential and probably necessary ways of disciplining is also the appropriate sanctioning of all those who agree on the traffic flow contained in this Road Safety Act. It is ridiculous or incomprehensible to hear that punishments, whatever they are, are a social category. No road traffic operator shall be required to pay the penalty in order to comply with traffic rules. This is a fact that should be taken into account by all and, from this point of view, also accompany the proposal after an increase in the penalty for further discussion. The higher penalties are probably necessary and one of the pillars of improving transport safety is also indicated in future results from the past. However, a very important aspect of traffic safety is also the likelihood that violators of traffic regulations are involved in infringements. And from this point of view, I think it would be very necessary to increase, in line with the new technological knowledge, the number of traffic-control devices, both visual and mainly speed control, speed measurement and parallel sanctioning. With us, I think that everything is still too weak to be fixed, as well as mobile radars, and that the probability that we will not be caught in rampaging on the roads is still large enough for this to happen so often. The consequences, however, we know for ourselves that they are extremely severe, fatal and practical, there is no Slovenian who would not otherwise suffer the consequences of accidents in one form or another. However, the most important pillar of safety, I believe, is the driver. And already in the Resolution on Road Traffic Safety for the period 2003 to 2007, and in particular in the Resolution on National Transport Safety for the period 2007-2012, we have stated that it is necessary to radically recast the practical training of young drivers and all those involved in road transport which, for such or other reasons, are deviant to belong to that group of drivers who too often violate traffic regulations and then return as returnees to the training process. Practical training gives good results in some comparable countries. For example, let me mention Austria, where each country has at least one practical driver training facility and where this obligation after practical training has been legally valid since 1.1.2004, and the results, as I said, are good, as shown by the security picture in that country, in Austria. We already entered in the Road Safety Act 2004 this intention to renovate practical training into the then adopted Road Safety Act. We have practically legalized the driving of excellence, the exercise of safe driving, as well as group workshops with interviews with psychologists about behaviour in traffic. On the other hand, in the transitional provisions, we have also adopted a period of unreasonablely long time for me to implement these provisions. Thus, we have moved the introduction of these provisions to 2010 when the period of the recently adopted national road safety programme, which has set itself a significant improvement, a significant reduction in the number of road traffic dead. And for this reason, I am convinced that the law has begun to be examined, that the right is also to consider that these provisions of the law, or that good practice, are immediately introduced into our everyday life. I'm sure that's what all the terms and conditions are for. I come from a municipality where the investor has already built the first safe driving training site, which allows the immediate launch of safe driving programmes, and there is no reason to wait until 2010, with this change. There is no reason, and security, which worsens from day to day, justifies this need. You want to or you don't want to, traffic laws are inexorable, traffic is a sequence of instinctive actions that need to be trained if only to be in real conditions. The current way of training young drivers has learned what individual traffic signs mean, and in a school with a marked car training is by no means carried out in real terms, at real speeds, but this training is not provided for training in unpredictable but frequent situations faced by road users. Such modern polygons allow this, and I think the price we are paying in the field of transport is so high right now that we must not be harmed by any euro for the situation to improve. I'm sure the situation can only be improved by investing in the driver. But since this, as I said, is an instinctive, automatic act, driving a set of purely unconscious acts requires training. And this training is most needed by young drivers, and I am convinced that because the way of training for young, practical training for young drivers is incomplete, even the most victims among young drivers who pay this lack of training through this price of human life. I expect that we will find so much sense or willingness to abolish this transitional provision and that the law will legitimize the immediate need for practical training of young drivers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Mark Pavlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear Mr. Minister Mag. Girdle with colleagues, other government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I sincerely hope that future drivers and the Tribune have left us not because of our greatness, but because of other obligations. However, it is true that we can write and adopt such a good regulation, but it will be no better and no better if we do not begin with ourselves if we do not start with the revaluation of values, especially when we are sitting in our own steel stables and wildly pursuing various objectives across the board. The situation in Slovenia, Europe and the world in the field of road safety is catastrophic. In the world, it is said that about one Ljubljana people, more than 300,000 people, die annually in the European Union about 50,000, and we have at least one relatively large village, which is a disaster, especially for a small nation such as Slovenia. If we paraphrased the ancient saying that man is a wolf man, we could say that the Slovenian is a driver after Trstenjak. And it is a shame that there is no longer among us the greatness of the Slovenian psychology of Dr. Trstenjak, who has written much about the anxiety of our Schengen nation, about why so much alcoholism, why so many suicides and not least why so much killing on the roads, and of course also elsewhere in traffic, but the roads are the ones who drink into the sky. Let me tell you just one thing when we're so shocked by air accidents that they're getting more and more frequent, clearly, they also have a kind of psychological effect. I once did an analysis for students of the average number of air accidents with fatalities or deaths in 30 years by 2001; of course, after 11 September 2001, statistics changed completely and also intensified with the phenomenon of terrorism. How many people do you think died on average every year in 30 years until 2001? Precisely 1,464. So much but negligible little - I'm talking about the data that applies to the whole world - compared to road accidents. We are talking about security, and I immediately come to Article 72 of the Constitution, which speaks, foresaw the right of a person to a healthy living environment. And he says, "Everyone has the right to a healthy living environment under the law," and he goes on to say, "state of concern," he could say in his armor, he is obliged to care, "for a healthy living environment" and to that end, the law lays down conditions and ways to carry out economic and other activities. Therefore, given the problem of road fatalities, the question arises to me whether the right to safe transport would not be judged in the Constitution, if not already, it is too academic and utopian, and then I claim as a lawyer that it is also possible to exercise the right to safe transport under Article 72. For what else is this as part of a healthy living environment? And the word worry is not just out of the vine, for not lawyers, maybe already, but it means more than protection, that when we talk about concern we have in mind a set of preventive, curative and repressive measures, which together must not only preserve the existing state but improve it. In the European Union, they have given themselves a vision of the need to halve the death toll. I think it's only ethical that an extreme vision is no accident. So how can we say that we plan 125 road deaths by 2010 instead of 300 or more? Of course, this vision works utopianly for a moment, but with big steps, with higher goals, we can then achieve at least less. A few words about the individual components of protection or safety not only in road transport could be spoken in general in transport. As far as prevention is concerned, the construction of the motorway, particularly in the early 1990s, has had a significant impact on road safety, but obviously the country or construction has reached that point of saturation not only in the financial sense, when existing infrastructure needs to be restored and when other obstacles are encountered that we have not planned. Let me mention just a few road construction accidents and the problems we face in the tunnels. This has already been said, even at the last meeting of the Transport Committee. We are meeting large columns, which certainly also have an impact on the more aggressive behaviour of drivers, and it is quite interesting that a variety of initiatives automatically come across barren soils. Let me tell you just one thing, the last time we drove more than a few hours from Ljubljana to Primorska, I found that we could significantly improve the speed of driving or travelling time if we opened the right lane for driving, which is otherwise reserved for slower vehicles, and that even during some waiting period we would have to unload the so-called toll station or ABC station, because when we pay the toll, we pay it to use the roads in accordance with what they are intended for, that is, the speed that is foreseen and the time we plan to travel. However, the answer, specifically the Minister of the Interior, was negative that this could not be done. I don't know why not? Secondly, this has already been mentioned today, and it is certain that better public passenger transport could contribute to safety. The holiday seasons are between us and many of us will not be decided for a taxi because, for the first time, of uncomfortable and unquality driving. We've got some so-called black cabbies doing this without a special permission. It happened to me that I was driving from Shiska to town, and the cab driver didn't know where Drama was, and that's a real drama, with a little starter. Second. Price taxis are no longer as affordable to all, but they are expensive for us, and we say we have relatively good wages, that we do not talk about other forms of public passenger transport, which will certainly not attract us anymore, even if it is not more pleasant and more comfortable. Undoubtedly, it was not a deliberate move and perhaps it was an appeal to the new minister, for his predecessor remembered that it was not a good move to abolish the Prevention and Raising Council. And we initially transferred it to the agency, and then we didn't even set up agencies. I do not know if an analysis has been made of how much money we have saved in this way, but the fact is that the world has played a very important and effective role since 1954 in the first form, and then since 1972 in particular in the field of training of young drivers, as well as the action and programme for transport education of children, adolescents, the weakest group of participants, etc. Let me just give you a few steps they've taken before they're terminated. I only hope that this will continue at the Ministry of Transport, but they planned the so-called First Driving, Safe Driving, Child in the Car, Lumpy's safe trip to school - this, by the way, gave through my son - which often alerts me to what we do wrong in the car after Lumpy's school. Then kid biker, bright head protects helmet, start of school year, safety for everyone, Be careful, safe bike, What do you know about traffic, Week of traffic safety, With head to party, Youth to be joy, Safe vehicle, Safe vehicle, Speed kills, We drive smart, Today without a car, How to travel better and we could still list. Consider again whether it would not show the world again, as an independent body, to awaken to life and give it the powers it had. When we talk about penalties and perhaps a little more when I talk about repression, we should consider how certain safeguards would prevent the perpetrators of worse crimes. One possible way would be to command the offender to spend a certain period of time in a hospital or rehabilitation center and to help the worst victims of traffic accidents, paraplegic tetraplegics, and others. I think that the effect of 14 days, perhaps one month, would be significantly greater, significantly more preventive than any warning on boards or on television, or the display of only the ferocious sheet. The preventive role could be played and the media should also play. I remember a case a couple of years ago when one of the famous coastal politicians flew off the road at a speed of 250 kilometers an hour. In the papers, we could read about his feat, literally, as a feat. Not a single critical word has I seen how inappropriate this is, how harmful this is, how it is also a crime. No, the point was how in Porsches at 250 kilometers an hour you can fly off the road, and of course you don't even kill yourself. That we're not even talking about the double necessity of car manufacturers. Virtually anywhere in the world, the limit is a maximum of 130 kilometers on highways, but today we do not practically buy a car that does not go over 200 kilometers per hour or has a roadblock of 250 miles [250 km]. Who do we put sand in our eyes?Oh, my God! This would be about as much as banning shooting; as it is prohibited, except in the ranges; but at the same time allow a variety of weapons intended only for killing. With regard to the Kurativa, there is only one concrete proposal or warning, perhaps you have not even encountered it in practice. Curativa, of course, is the removal of the consequences that have already arisen. I note, I do not know if this is a trend or if this is a situation throughout Slovenia, but at least in Primorska, that ambulances are usually driven by ambulances, but for such driving only by trained drivers instead of being at least the other way around. For we know that speed, or in this case time, has contributed to the rescue, and a number of accidents have been in recent times that have been blamed by ambulance drivers for their ineptitude. They gave quite a few initiatives, specifically to the director of the Health Institute in Izola and to some others, for once it was all "bob against the wall". I think it would be ideal for such vehicles to be operated by the best drivers, of course, while monitoring the paramedics at the same time, but if this is not already possible, cost-effective, and of course at least extremely qualified drivers, who also have other knowledge. And with regard to repression - just a few words about general and special prevention. In the second year of law school, we are quickly taught what is the correlation between repression and efficiency. General prevention means that the offender should also serve as a reminder to other potential perpetrators, and preventive and special prevention, so that, of course, the penalty would have a preventive effect on the perpetrator so that he would not commit any more similar offences or offences. Old studies, such as those of Queen Victoria and the time of the public execution of pickpockets, showed that during the execution of the death penalty, the number of robberies jumped dramatically. For, of course, the sinners took the opportunity, because you know, the opportunity to make a thief, and they didn't take much account of the worst penalty at risk. In short, as I have already said, prevention, curativeness and repression are also expected to have a major impact on improving road safety together. Some specific comments. If I mention Article 4 and Article 2 of the original text, let me say that it changes in the work that sets the fine for infringements committed by the employer by about 25%. I do not think it is good that the reduction of the fine is a signal to employers that their responsibility by abandoning basic tasks in the field of internal control is of minor importance or that they can abandon their duty to control employees. I don't think that's good. I propose that, for example, fines be raised to at least 5,000 euros for employers. Article 12 would need to clarify the material provisions relating to Article 12 in particular the powers of road traffic inspectors. In Article 14 and Article 3 of the original text, I should say that the extension of the obligations of the municipal editors does not agree with either the municipality or the association of the municipalities; I think this should be deleted. In Article 69 and Article 24 respectively, we observe a balance sheet for the worst infringements. This part of the proposal should be supplemented in the part which lays down sanctions for exceeding the permissible burden. Well, in Article 70, at least sanctions should be achieved within the scope of overruns from point C when it comes to congestion of roads. In Article 83 and Article 28, criminal points should be introduced, at least one. Article 119 and Article 45 should also be supplemented by criminal points, such as in other cases of abuse of advantage. Well, at the end of the 242nd and 101st paragraphs, we believe that higher fines should be prescribed and now the provision is reduced. For example, a driver with a fine of at least EUR 1,500 and a sentence of penalty points and an employer of at least EUR 400, and that is also the point. Let me just say one last thing. The state of society expresses something like what we could read in the Saturday Annex a few days ago by one of our angry citizens. He wrote it like this. [[Quote]] : "Last times the Slovenian society has been reminded of a pussy wound that may only be healed by the most horsely, absolutely no democratically measured injection of the most powerful penicillin. The situation is critical. In the chaos that reigns on the roads, only gunfights are missing, mortal victims multiply as on the front." And then it lists some reasons, including general dissatisfaction and the speed of life, expensiveness, inflation and so on. Then he says, "Take some time to observe the human faces that drive in cars. You hardly notice them smiling and happiness. They mostly indicate bitterness and acidity. Only the last time you saw someone singing happily behind the wheel." To begin with, I believe it is our duty to clear our own threshold and to try to influence our children, as we may be doing in other areas. Let us convince them that the car is a dangerous thing and this is also recorded in a number of regulations that need to be managed with extreme care and extreme care. Let us convince them that behavior on the road must become part of customary law, as is normal, that the vast majority of people do not steal, kill, or spit on the road, do not scream in churches and so on, so it should be absolutely self-evident that we do not sit in the car guilty of driving according to the rules and thus contribute to greater security, to a better healthy environment in our little country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely hailed representatives of the government! When I looked at some statistics on traffic accidents and fatalities, I was able to calculate that the number of deaths of young people in traffic had increased by 70% over the last three years. The question is whether this comparative period is exactly right, but the fact is that. This suggests a very disturbing situation. Otherwise, as far as general casualties are concerned, traffic is also showing a slight increase compared to the previous year. That's why I think it's quite right that the government has prepared this law. However, in all such introductions, such as changes in terms of fines, there are questions as to whether this is what will deter people from being wrong and inappropriate on the road, which is due to a fatal accident, or whether it will reduce the plague on our roads and change the behavior of people. In Slovenia we can talk about some aggressive individualism that has grown in the last 12 or 15 years. What are the reasons, is the loss of the values of this generation or something else, or is the impact of the Western world similar? The fact is, we have aggressive individualism at all ends. A week ago, we were talking about domestic violence, about school violence. Should we then adopt laws to prevent violence on the street, on the road, in the family, and so forth? I don't think we're gonna get far with this. We must threaten the bull with horns. It's a society of violence. That's what we could talk about. There is also, in fact, another philosophy, the philosophy of death, the culture of death, and the disrespect of life. It's not just the roads, it's not just the schools. After all, Slovenia is a Slovenian society, Slovenia is fifth-placed after suicide in the world, young people are ninth-placed in the world, Slovenian society. Not only is this kind of aggression against each other, but aggression also manifests itself against itself. And what Dr. Pavlich's colleague said before me, that's exactly what's true, no more smiling faces. Behind the wheel rings are some figures, angry, angry, angry at everyone around them. They are protected, they think in this pharaoh's cage that no one can harm them, but they are, after all, victims of their own reckless act. And this aggression on the inside, on the outside, and the lack of this joy of life is manifested, and in the end, the acceptance of life, of fertility, as we spoke. Here, Slovenia is completely at the bottom of Europe and also in the world. About the fines. Globes will have selective effects, particularly in a country where socio-economic differences are high. Those who are rich do not find the fine essential, even if the fine is thousands of euros. For someone who receives a salary of 500 euros or 300 euros, this fine means very much and the question is whether it has an effect on prevention. I don't think so. And we should therefore ask ourselves, in all these fines, whether we are achieving the right effects, or perhaps with other forms, non-financial forms, withdrawal of permission, service, when you commit such an offence, service in humanitarian organisations and so on, to mean that, and that you cannot substitute for such a punishment by paying. So that even those who are relatively rich do not have some significant costs in their lives to be forced into doing so. Look, when we look at these drivers that are going wild at extremely high speeds, it's just you. These are some young people who have unlimited wealth of parents who are allowed to do so, and all those, I don't know what they're called "slipping, driving..." is all this society that's focused on, so this selfish aggressive individualism and it has a lot of property under its thumb. Even when I mention these fines, it happens a lot to an ordinary citizen who doesn't drive aggressively, drives by the rules to overlook signs. In this flood of regulations, when you have ads at all ends and places where traffic signs are literally lost in advertising panels, it is possible to overlook it. You might miss him. There are rules, how, where, where not. But I'll tell you, this setting of billboards is everyday. And it can also cause someone who is a worthy driver to overlook the sign, instead of 90 means 50, which is, we know, how much more is the fine or such a punishment has a very severe effect on someone who has a low salary. I also note the enforcement of the provision in the transitional provisions, with regard to the enforcement of the regulation only in 2010. The law, as such in principle, provides the right solutions. As far as fines are concerned, I am not quite sure whether they should be re-examined, whether they are all in place, and whether alternative substitutes should be applied, and on prevention, which is not only the subject of this regulation, but also subject to other rules, including other areas. In the school system, in the school curriculum certainly, not only in primary school, but also in secondary schools and a number of other measures in other areas where we prepare young people for life. But here, our company's pretty much canceled. And seriously, we need to ask ourselves, not only because of traffic accidents on the roads, but also because of other violence, another type of aggression that is in our society. Otherwise, in principle, I support the direction and efforts of the government, which it has given by law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with co-workers, government representatives. Colleagues and colleagues! As a rule, we all get to know each other well on the market, because we are all involved in transport in one way or another every day. I'm sure there's a lot of experience like that and there's a lot of other experiences. We can also summarize today's debate for 6 hours in the sense that we want to contribute to our view of road safety in Slovenia, which is not the most optimal, unsatisfactory. And that all the measures we have taken so far, in one way or another, have not produced the best results in the past. I am sure that this is not only a matter of transport and the Ministry of the Interior, but many other ministries in this government. That's our common concern. All of which are in any way related to road safety. In the first place, we are the drivers and the participants themselves, who are so and so different, because we have heard a lot of this through the debate today. Today, we want to see how and how this change of law can contribute. I believe that in order to reduce the number of accidents, especially those with fatalities. There's too many of them. Too many Slovenes and Slovenes die on our roads for such and other reasons. That's why it's such an effort and this direction and these repairs of the law to my advantage. Today's broader debate will probably give us some new perspectives, both ministries, proposers as the Government, to correct, improve this situation and make such legislation as optimally as possible to ensure that all participants are better and safer on our roads. Unfortunately, speed and speed are the main causes of accidents. These speeds are really too high. There's too many of them. With those who go wild on Slovenian roads who cannot and cause such and different accidents. Then I'm sure it's alcohol. There's still too much of him behind the wheel. At least that's how the police find out. And a belt and other disregard for traffic signals. These are the main, common causes of traffic accidents, such and other ones, for which the police, of course - we have them. For some it's too much on the road, for others it's too little on the road. Some say we don't see the police in Europe when we get to Slovenia. In short, when exactly the police are on the road - of course, we can identify each one separately. However, I think the police - in my opinion - are doing their mission well and trying to work with their authority. But it will never guarantee everyone, especially when we commit a crime, when we have to pay the fine. Of course we don't like that. But when it's not, there's other reasons. In short, it's hard here to find the reasons for the police. I think the measures that are good in these changes to the law, as I said. It's true, it's fines or fines. I know you can't do without it. Yeah, well, the only most optimal effect is a blow to the pocket. This is going to happen to the Slovenians in one way or another. All the other preventive measures, the information, the spots, I don't know the silhouette cop - the radar on the road, the empty vehicles. This has certain effects, both of them. They're more or less working than anywhere. Some people are used to it. And there's no more of the real effect that we once or again encountered these vehicles on the road and put some pressure on them, some moment when you pressed or pressed the brakes and so on. These are the effects. But, of course, not without punishment. I am more concerned about whether these penalties are objective, correct or really too comparable with Germany, Austria, Italy. You know, income there or with us, it's a big difference. We have to take this. Our wages are still a mess. A lot of people deserve 500 euros. You will probably say that those who earn 500 euros are not the main drivers of speed and that they are different. But they're among them, too. Definitely. Probably smaller because they don't have such good cars that they can walk 180, 190 on the road because they'll never get to them. True, there are those who drink among them. But they can also be like that with low wages. And I'm sure it'll be a punishment. Of course, there is no excuse for alcohol in traffic and there can be no excuse for it. This is what I think we are completely united in. However, we might consider speeds, penalties, or fines. Is that optimal or not? It's time for that. Of course, I support them that they must be. However, the height, which is also above 100%, is an extremely large leap. I know that the goal is to pay them and stick to it. But you also have to be here for life and make the best of what's best. Surely, some are more called to do so and will be more likely to judge what penalties are required. But I think there's something more to be done in education. Education is a problem. After all, as parents, we are also the parents of children in traffic. Above all, these are schools, secondary, primary and other, which should also do more for future road users and future drivers of such and different vehicles. Here, I think we still haven't done enough. And there may also be too little action, videos, information that has been in the past. Some of them still are. What can cause all of this if we are on the road too quickly, drinking while driving, and so on? In short, I think there are reserves. Reserves are certainly also on even better roads, which are such or different, local and national. It's been a long time. It's working, too. But there are still roads that, I think, often cause worse security. Local communities are also important in this regard, as they care about settlement of sidewalks in settlements, the moderation of traffic under the responsibility of local communities, with so-called roadblocks. More should be done to ensure that all these measures are available, which ultimately have concrete effects of reducing speed, especially in settlements where it is still too high. The penalty for exceeding the speed of 30 and more in the settlement - I hope that such offenders will be as few as possible or not at all. But it's only right that the punishment here is maximum. But I think that the bigger problem that I'm facing as mayor is that maybe sometimes traffic signals aren't what they should be. We know a whole bunch of different perimeters, where there's a 50-mile limit. No settlement, no particular threat, and the limit is a 50 - long straight road. Therefore, I do not know why or what this restriction is intended for. There should be some air here, too. Where this is unnecessary, withdraw. Where it's necessary, so be it. I think we have a lot of such unnecessary measures. It must be hard to drive along a long road with a speed limit of 50 kilometers per hour, where there is no house. These are a bit of an incomprehensible set of traffic signals, which should also be rewinded by the services responsible for this. Things may also need to be rectified at the initiative of local communities to be more meaningful and more effective. The next issue is this public transport that we want to settle. I think it will be difficult for Slovenians and Slovenes to give up the comfort that we have become accustomed to in these years. We want to admit it or not. In Slovenia, there are so many and so many vehicles. These numbers are relatively Europeanly comparable or even exceed them. And to get our citizens out of this comfort to public transport either by rail, by bus or by any other means, this is more than a small utopia, that it will happen overnight and that we will be driving this traffic. I don't think that's gonna happen. Therefore, do not count on this to happen by such or other measures. It's hard. For the time being, we won't be able to give up these comforts to the Slovenians, probably not. And yet, I'm an optimist. Corrections are positive. It's heading in the right direction. We need to act urgently. It is our duty to correct this, however, to improve this situation on Slovenian roads, less accidents, less deaths. In the first place, however, I think that what I started depends primarily on us, the drivers, on us users, the participants in the traffic. It's up to us to see if we can make it. No action, no punishment, no law, no regulation can do this unless we first sweep it before our own threshold to be pure and successful. In the end, I would only like Christmas to bring more tolerance and culture to drivers on our roads and to all other road users. I think it would be the care of the children and the elders the greatest gift of this Christmas. Let us, after all, be, at least, Members of Parliament, model drivers, and be of good will when we drive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u48	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. I really understand the need for government members to defend this law. But I don't understand some of the nonsense that's been said here. Let me read something for the day. One of the predecessors said that driving is a set of unsupervised actions. Blue thought. Then it was said that the lack of the will to live was responsible for the fatalities on the roads. That's what I heard. And we talked about prices that are too small or about penalties. No one talks about survival or survival from 300 euros a month to some. In short, if you look at this marriage. One repressive act. But the main reasons are not discussed. If I'm allowed to, I'd say a few of the main nonsense this National Assembly has done has also increased mortality. And it seems that we will continue to produce them here in this house of wisdom. By law, we've increased the base pressure for trucks, permitted base pressure. We've reduced the penalties for truckers with special laws. Of course today, if you look at traffic on roads, one third of all traffic is truck traffic. The Slovenian National Party has been warning you for years and years that we should do something to bring more difficult transit cargo and freight to the railways on a model basis than you like to see in neighbouring countries, Austria, for example. Today Austria and Italy have been mentioned several times. And, after all, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! And how many cops have paid this country for a speeding ticket? I don't know anyone. And gypsies ride without exam or exam. I've never seen anyone in a high school before to take an exam. Professional drivers when their driver's license is revoked because they've finished their job and they're going to drink one spritzer with a moped and take his driver's license in full. It doesn't matter if he was with the engine. You're talking about, in fact, we need to increase our sentences and that the penalties will solve everything. That's not true. The country didn't do anything! State roads are neglected. There are the most accidents on state roads. We die for a class of kids a year. What did you do for it? We warn you all the time. At least I personally wrote five parliamentary initiatives and questions on this subject. Nothing. State roads are one hole. We are investing in motorways, which are already too small, too crowded, poorly built, as we have heard from my colleague. The Trojan clan, or Troyan tunnel, is a living example of this. What material things are installed there, and how much is this overpaid? What I'm trying to say is that punishments belong in the department. In fact, they have to be in some way. But I don't understand that it's all based on that. Now, if we're going to put the punishments on hold, then there won't be any more accidents, and that's all we're going to do with the fines. The punishment must be great, and the punishment will solve everything. Let's see how much we've paid for the military budget, and that money, one tenth, if we decide to use it for roads today, we'll halve the deaths. That's the solution. We don't need an army. That battalion there in Kosovo will not save world and European peace. You're copying everything you can from Europe, and you've copied it, and that's a European emergency. In Europe, fines are rising and this is not a government law. It's a European copy of the law. Europe said so, we must do it. That's smart, what Europe says. Think of us as living in Slovenia, where purchasing power is as it is. In this Slovenia we have invested years and years in the infrastructure of neighbouring republics and have neglected our own infrastructure. We were building a port with a special pretend that we were building an industrial track and essentially expanding the infrastructure in this way in Luka alone and essentially building the railway with self-contribution. We are getting a very very cheap portion of the transport logistics budget in general. And I can also talk about the railroad. Earlier, one of the colleagues mentioned that public transport should also increase in other spheres. Yeah, well, who's gonna ride on the railroad, on the road with trains like these?Oh, my God! It's a live lottery if you stay alive. We have Yugoslav-era wagons. How many new compositions, cars and classics did we buy? In international traffic, we were pushed out because we did not meet the conditions for driving. These are the facts. They're colleagues of the railroad. This is where they can confirm it. In short, we are waving holes for mistakes made decades ago in transport policy. I understand that decisive steps have now been taken. But what you're doing isn't the solution. We'll finish the highway programs. And once we've finished the highway programs, we'll find out the highways are too small. We're going to destroy them in parallel with the 10-fold factor of the time dimension earlier, because they can actually drive trucks like they do. This is not redirected to other traffic transfers. And that's the problem with transport policy. If this government really cared about human life and, more recently, those children who died on the roads, then they would talk about different solutions, not the ones they did. These aren't solutions for me. It's a demagogy that's going to cost us even higher prices. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, you'll fix it. I don't know how you're going to change another marriage. I just can't imagine that we don't even have a road traffic prevention, and we're working 100 an hour on a Kurat. The punishments of my deep conviction will not solve anything altogether. Nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u49	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister and other representatives of the Government, Members and Members! On the first page of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Traffic Safety Act is a graph showing where Slovenia belongs in reducing the number of deaths. Now, do we look at things like we say, but we're in the 20th place between the 27ths. But that's not the problem. In my view, the problem is that by 2010 we will by no means significantly improve the achievement. Because 8% of the reduction in the number of deaths in 2007 will definitely change and decrease. The second thing that upsets me about this graph is whether or not it is interesting that there are only two new Member States above the average, that the majority of the new members are below the average. Is it to look for reasons for the sudden improvement of the fleet or in poor infrastructure or perhaps in the characteristic image of these citizens and citizens from this part of the world, as it has already been heard? Regardless of whether we have the answers to these questions, I would like to point out that if speed is the main cause of traffic danger on our roads, we can only look at this issue from a safety point of view. Have we not often been warned from the point of view of environmental problems that we should think about reducing speed, making greater use of public transport? Therefore, the issues we face in the face of road safety can also be seen from the point of view of environmental problems. Sooner or later, there will be reflection on how we behave, whether responsible or irresponsible. Here I will stop on this issue and I will draw attention to some other things that are very troubling to me in this proposal of the law. If unadjusted speed is the first reason, the irregular side or direction of driving, and failure to comply with the rules on advantage and incorrect overcoming, I think that is a very important reason for or a core problem of non-compliance with road traffic rules. Because what's too much of a speed other than disregarding the prescribed speed at which I can drive. Let me illustrate with an example. Driving through the trojan tunnels in bad weather has been mentioned many times today. In particular, from the point of view of the cost-effectiveness of investments in road infrastructure. And I'll warn you what kind of warnings I hear when I'm driving. Sometimes they say the maximum speed permit is 60 kilometers per hour. Second, there's a limited speed through the Troyan tunnels. Drive safe. Yeah, don't you have to drive carefully every time you're on the road? What does that mean? One who hears that driving carefully is probably the way most drivers drive. These are not just young drivers to be clear, showing me with different signs, in different ways that I'm stupid because I drive 60 km through the tunnels. What does that mean? When I get ahead of myself in a tunnel where there's no speeding, the truck, then I don't know why to prescribe such a restriction if we don't exercise control over how these regulations and restrictions are respected. Before each tunnel, it almost warned that radar was speed control. What's the matter with us, anyway? Do we prescribe speeds that we know no one will take into account, or are we, as drivers, smarter now? I don't argue with those who have issued me such a restriction and I want to respect it. Like I said, I feel stupid. This has to do with our general driving culture and the presence of the police on the road. I have to tell you that lately, after a long time - I think after a few months - for the first time I saw a police vehicle installed, not even in the Trojan tunnels, but in those on the other side of the Styrian highway. It's between the Dramas and the Fight. And this convinces me that precisely those who say that these preventive measures, which would indicate how we should behave in road transport, are significantly understated. I believe that those who drive in service vehicles with service drivers, and possibly with a protected escort, do not feel these problems that I am now talking about. Another issue is what we have done to increase our relationship or readiness to use public transport. This is also related to the question of how much we have invested in rail transport and what we have done to make public rail transport more frequent in such relations as Maribor-Ljubljana. I drove five years a day and stopped driving when I realized I could never figure out when I was going to get to the finish line. These are the things that bother me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u51	Thank you. Mrs. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr President, representatives of the Government, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I must admit that I was convinced years ago that when we adopted the amendment to the Road Safety Act and drastically increased the fines, I was confident that this would reduce the number of accidents on our roads and that our roads would become safer. Unfortunately, however, our roads are among the bloodiest in Europe. This year more than 40 people died compared to the same period last year. The current Road Safety Act has also failed to establish order by increasing monetary penalties for longer periods. The number of road fatalities has only dropped slightly in recent years. I find that the level of punishment is not a factor that could affect better safety over a longer period. High penalties may only have a certain effect on compliance with traffic rules, if the driver for the offence is indeed punished and pays immediately. The fact is, there's still a lot of criminals who don't pay and there aren't enough cops on the road. The police are supposed to tighten their surveillance. However, the judiciary should recover its fines more up-to-date, otherwise the effect of the penalty will fade after a few months. The height of the penalty is also a question of justice. Penalties can already mean a financial burial for those who have low incomes. However, for a more substantial payment of the fine, there is usually no problem. I would like to point out two other causes that could lead to accidents, including fatalities. Every day I see myself driving to work, on the freeway from the west, with these problems. There's been a lot of casualties lately. Even mortals. Just because you're driving in the wrong direction. And I don't think the markings are enough. In order to physically separate imports into the motorway as they do in other countries. I would also like to point out that on the highway one lane is actually occupied by trucks and poses a great threat by their overtaking and causing a nuisance by drivers of passenger vehicles. So I'm afraid that in the future this could mean a great deal of danger and a lot of accidents because of that. And as has already been pointed out today, it should be done to remove freight traffic from the highway and redirect it to the railways, as they did in the countries to which we like to compare ourselves. The fact is that Slovenia is not following the European objective of halving the number of road fatalities by 2010 and is not following the national programme. I therefore understand the amendments to the Road Traffic Safety Act that are ahead of us, including the efforts to achieve this programme. However, I believe that it is not only a normative effort that is sufficient. But a comprehensive approach is needed to take measures in the field of prevention. In particular in the field of transport education and education for a better transport culture, as well as in the field of transport infrastructure, in the field of vehicle safety and last but not least in the provision of emergency medical assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u53	Thank you. Can I help you? You can join the debate whenever you want. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Several times the police have been mentioned as a body within the internal ministry. Of course, I also expected about that kind of reaction. Although we are not entirely those who are carriers of this law, we are somehow together with our hands, and in the future we will also work with the Transport Ministry and other within the Government, which are somehow relying primarily on the strategy in this area. Although we all know it's not just the government and therefore its departments and services that are responsible for transport safety. But that's the question and the problem of the whole society. It has been mentioned several times that the police have nothing to see on the roads. This is probably what traffic police are all about. According to our records, the situation is not exactly as you mention it. It is true, however, that in the last period we have been striving for a strategy to guide police officers where they are most needed, where we find that they are hotspots. So serious traffic accidents with severe consequences and also with the radar system, if that's what I call it. The situation goes on, and for every cell phone radar or station station station to be a cop, that's not the case for a while. The technique is moving forward and the police are serviced only on mobile radars mainly, so they are not visible. But it is true that a uniform means some element of prevention and also of silhouette. Cardboard police, if I call them that, in practice in other countries, have also brought quite a few preventive results to the European Union, a few in the preventive field. Of course, this is an element that is extremely difficult to measure. However, studies by other countries show that I have no doubts about this. Of course, it must also be said that it is not just now a penal policy - if I say so - in this area that will affect the situation in traffic security. So contribute to improving the situation in traffic security. If you look at this bill in more detail, you will find with some good will quite a lot of news that we have prepared very carefully. We believe that they will certainly help improve transport safety. In other words, the seizure of a motor vehicle, which has already been defined in the Offences Act. However, it is now extremely exact and specifically referred to in Article 238.a. The introduction of compulsory restraint for driving in inadequate psychophysical condition is also a new element. It's extremely important. Until now, the policeman had the right to hold the driver who drove the motor vehicle in an inadequate psychophysical condition only after the repetition of the offence within a certain period of time. It's not like that right now. The bond is actually as soon as the driver is under the influence of, say, alcohol and has 0.71 milligrams per litre of breathable air in his blood, which is, if I'm not mistaken, 1.5. This is certainly a tightening of visa fines, which have been mentioned several times today, but which is not supposed to help improve the security situation in the field of transport. Look, all the statistics, including ours, say it's not quite like that. Madam Parliament earlier said they had no special effect in the long term. I might agree with you here, but in the short term, yes. The government is aware of these issues and, of course, what to do, as well as try to bring to the National Assembly changes that will take effect as soon as possible. Of course, longevity is not to be ignored. On you, ladies and gentlemen, as houses of law, it is a matter of trying to assess the role of prevention and repression in a way of sounding, proportionate and then making a decision. I am sure that you will somehow succeed with our help and the material we have prepared and supported this bill as one that is suitable for the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister and other representatives of the Government! So I personally believe that there is something in the field of transport safety or much in the field of transport safety to be done. In opening, I must say that, contrary to some opinions that say that there is a European need for Europe, we are changing some things. I think I know the problem. This law and this legislation, traffic security, are not a European necessity. It's just that there's a need for us. And each country can or is obliged to adopt such legislation to take such measures to ensure that there is too little security that will reduce the number of accidents and, above all, the worst. The fact is that up to - I think the data show - today they have also been told several times that the number of these worst traffic accidents or the worst consequences, the fatalities, has been shrinking there by 2004 and then began to grow again. The fact is that we do not implement a national road safety programme in particular in this part. I don't know if any inter-ministerial, inter-ministerial working groups are working or not. I believe that this would be absolutely necessary. As far as I know, they also work at these working groups or these meetings should analyse the reasons for these consequences and also take appropriate measures that are not only legal. But some others, too. Of course, there are many others. In all areas not only in the field of police surveillance, in the area of appropriate infrastructure, which is also necessary, including in other schools, etc. In this material we have some comparisons with some other countries, especially the surrounding countries, as well as France, the United Kingdom, close to us. Here I may be a little lacking in comparisons and solutions, such as those in Sweden, in some other Scandinavian countries. I'm sure the bill-maker also has this comparison. Because the consequences of traffic accidents or because all this is happening on transport infrastructure, on roads are significantly different, essentially safe. I will not forget the case of my colleague Gantar driving to Sweden from Stockholm last year, 200 kilometers north to one of the Swedish cities, where about 160 kilometers of the highway and about 40 kilometers of the ordinary state road, and he said on his way from Stockholm to this city and two days ago, our vehicle was too soon, if you believe it or not, to a personal vehicle. But in Sweden there is a speed limit on the highways - if I have the right data - 110 kilometers per hour and we were overtaken by one vehicle. That was a cab driver who was obviously in a hurry. I watched the driver all the time. He was the driver of our embassy. I watched him all the time, never exceeding a mile [114 km] an hour. So, I've seen this as the greatest speed that he's achieved a couple of times in those 400 kilometers. But he never exceeded the speed of 114 kilometers an hour. And I didn't see any cops on the road. They probably have a fixed-cell system, and what I know is what other radars are likely to be set up. Of course I didn't notice that. I don't know that. I don't have that information, but I'm guessing. Of course, in addition to the fact that the Northerners have obviously respected the law and order by nature, and that is why this is the situation and therefore the situation of the most serious traffic accidents they have, that is to say, death victims, who, of course, are better for one light year than ours. Now, according to my assessment, in addition to all other measures, everything else, which has already been discussed today, needs significantly more control. Control, we're just Slovenians and Slovenians that we need a much bigger control. Now, in my opinion, the penalties themselves need to be re-examined thoroughly, even in some cases. It may also be possible to consider penalties depending on the circumstances of the cause. I think that there are many people - even in this comparison in some countries - in the legislation of some countries, I have noticed - that penalties are also dependent on the wealth of the cause. In this way, we would avoid what some have found to be a capital punishment of EUR 100 for someone. For another, he cannot wait to pay for it or to receive it and to drift away. So, the problem is, of course, I was already troubled when we were reducing the age limit for obtaining a driver’s license or starting learning. I don't approve of that right now. I think it was a step in the wrong direction, not in the right direction. The problem is also, of course, and I was there when we were almost 10 years ago, 9 years ago, I do not know when the Road Safety Act was adopted at that time, where we raised the age at which a re-medical examination was needed and so on and we have this age limit. So unreasonablely high. I argue and should be re-negotiated that, according to my assessment, the applicants should re-examine this. This is precisely the Interdepartmental Working Group which could take all these aspects into account. However, given what I have said so far, I have a concrete proposal, which, of course, will not appeal to the enthusiasm of either the viewers who may be watching me on TV or between Members and Members, probably not even with the motioners or maybe I. That it is necessary to reduce the maximum speed allowed in Slovenia for various reasons, which I will also count. I'm thinking mostly of roads outside settlements where we raised from 80 to 90 years ago. I don't think it's necessary. Alternatively, on highways, where we rose from 120 to 130 km per hour. What, in my opinion, would be the reasons enough to weigh such a measure? For the first time, to reduce the number of worst accidents. I'm saying, I don't have all the data, I don't have the right information that speed is a significantly higher cause of the worst accident than alcohol. And that doesn't mean that I advocate alcoholization of drivers. The second is the state of traffic or road infrastructure. The former minister has repeatedly claimed that 50% of Slovenian roads are virtually non-transportable. I don't believe that information. Because, then - I said the last time - 50% of Members would theoretically come on foot to Parliament meetings and this is not happening. Even the opposite. There are fewer of these worst traffic accidents in bad roads. The good ones are the worst. Because of the speed and the last few days, we hear the ecological aspect several times. Environmental pollution due to higher speed or environmental pollution at lower speeds is significantly higher, even ten times at 70 km per hour or on the other side 130 km per hour. And these are, in my opinion, the reasons why we could win such a measure. I almost drive across the Trojans every day. It's about there. 15 km limit to 100 per hour and most of this limit, including all drivers holding about. There are few speeds above 110 in Troyan, and no one misses out. That's what I'm saying. Today, the trojans have been mentioned many times in this debate in the tunnels. The real problem is probably because of the use of, I would say, the granules we have, the rocks we have in Slovenia. There's a system. The system has been designed to do this. Lately, Dars has agreed with the contractors to make this investment worth a million euros to be made in Slovenian tunnels. Many countries or many road administrations across Europe have been dealing with this problem recently. This is about concrete roughness, not asphalt - as was said several times - in the tunnels. So let's get this thing over with, Dars. Because I think it's been a while. And there's only one dilemma that's on the wallpaper forever, whether there's enough cops on the road or not. We used to say that in Slovenia only they keep stopping you, in Western Europe or in the rest of Europe. I think that's an important factor. However, an even more important factor would be the fight if a significantly higher number of fixed and mobile radars were introduced. Mostly fixed, whatever we're looking at, we're seeing data on France. I think it's much better for you to have one radar run every 100 kilometers, find out if you're driving too fast, than to have every hundred miles at this distance, and then cut you in the pocket, probably too. In this way, security would also be significantly better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Contic instead of Mr. Bevik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Colleagues and colleagues! Again, more than many times before the dilemma of finding an answer, whether higher penalties bring greater security on our roads or not. The findings from the past suggest that for some time, for a few months this means a good measure. And later, the users of the roads forget about it. I think that it is necessary to think in the direction of perhaps even rewarding those who do not have penalty points and perhaps to take this into account in tolls. Above all, I think it is important that we do more on the roads, as has been said in previous discussions. I think and I am sure that roads are bad, that roads are destroyed and that many times there are reasons for a traffic accident, in addition to, of course, all those mentioned in the explanation of the law. And when we make a decision that the victim will be less on the road, it is certainly necessary to say that listening when we propose members of the opposition to a solution is not in this Chamber. I myself proposed four amendments to the 2008 budget and all four amendments were intended to improve traffic safety on these sections of the road for which I proposed reconstruction. Unfortunately, everyone was rejected. This way, we will not improve security. Speaking of police surveillance on the roads, it's very interesting. When you ask people if cops are too small or too small, they're divided. When you ask them if it's right for cops to punish offenders, the answer is yes. But when you ask them if it is right to punish them if they commit a crime, the answer is no longer so uniform. Many times they find excuses for their actions. Many times they find reasons in others but not in themselves. That's just the human factor. Let me mention, I had a chance to speak to the mayor of one of the municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina a moment ago. It was very interesting when we also talked about traffic safety. He says it's about tying the belt to an act that everyone's assessing whether it makes sense or not. Usually, though, this belt binds them and puts pressure on them. But when they get to the Croatian border, there's no more pressure -- they tie the belt. And it's like us or it's been in the past. As you travel abroad, you follow the traffic regulations much more closely along the road and on the road. Speaking of police surveillance, let me also say that more needs to be done to ensure effective police supervision than this law has to be adopted. We will have to have well-paid police officers in Slovenia. We're going to have to have a sufficient number of police officers who are going to deal mainly or much more with prevention than they are now. And we'll have to provide them with good equipment. Now that we're looking at police vehicles, I'm not surprised that some people don't respect them, because with these vehicles, police officers aren't even capable of any serious intervention. The cars are worn out. Cars are bad and cars are old. Not to say that, compared to those who are most in breach of traffic regulations, they do not reach a third of the value of the cars with which the offenders actually cause damage. A while ago, we passed the Law on Community Registration. This is some kind of law on municipal or municipal police. Now, of course, we will allow managers to identify and punish excesses by means of stationary metering. The editors are not yet qualified for this. And when we talk about stationary speed meters, sometimes we're in a serious dilemma. For I am the leader of the Council for the improved safety of citizens in the Municipality of Velenje, and we have met several times with this problem or proposal, whether to place the meter on a certain section of the road or not. What can happen is that, on the basis of this meter, we will be able to watch races on this part of the road when they compete and the meter will officially announce the results of this competition. It is therefore necessary to ensure, at the same time, that radar controls are carried out and sanctions implemented there. And it is very important that what has been mentioned several times in this Chamber today, violators, potential violators need to know precisely that if they commit a traffic offence, they will be punished for it. And at least there's about 90% chance. And you'll see that things will improve. And in a very unfortunate way, we have begun this mandate of the National Assembly, as well as the abolition of criminals. That's when we decided to clean up the old stuff and start over. There is no reason why people would not think in this direction in order for this to happen again. So if you commit a misdemeanor and you're lucky, you'll wait for the abolition in the meantime, and the offense won't have to be settled. That was a bad signal, and that was a bad forecast. And that was this government's poor move at the beginning of this term. However, you have already cheered up those who were in line with the magistrate for offences, you have made a bad move for traffic safety in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Root instead of Mrs. Uhanov.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A nice greeting to all present in this hall! Many things and many reasons why it is necessary to deal with this law today have been said today. The situation in traffic security is certainly getting worse because traffic is increasing very rapidly. I have to say, in the last year, it's amazing how traffic has increased at least on A1. And apparently, the causes that lead to accidents in such a large traffic are very diverse. Sadly, though, the driver’s culture seems to be deteriorating every day. Why is that? There's no patience on the road anymore. Everybody's in a hurry. Can't wait half a minute, one minute. You can't just slow down a little bit. What's going on on the highway? The left belt is completely full, the right belt is much smaller and the ride is much faster along the right belt. Unfortunately, the world is wrong. I would like to know how many measures have already been put into this account. Violence on the road is huge, snorting, snorting, driving completely right behind the car and not listing. There's been a lot of talk here today. What are we going to do to make people drive more with their heads so that we don't be like a flock of sheep, a wild flock of sheep, not a peaceful herd? About six months ago, at least in Velenj, we had very well-known night races mainly for the younger ones or I will not tell the deaf young middle-aged drivers. It was a special attraction. Cops got pretty worked up about it. They didn't do much. But interestingly, the people who did it became an attraction. The magazine published interviews with them to explain their stories about these night races, and how the police can't touch them, and young people are reading it, that's what it was. We give such examples to young people, unfortunately. That is why I think more needs to be done in the field of education. I will say, too, that this national television should be precisely because of these victims who appear to approach the preparation of certain informational training shows also by publishing some very bloody footage from our roads. Although that may sound terrible, I think it would lead to a certain amount of sorcery for a lot of older people. We were talking about maybe it wasn't good for us to lower our age for the driving test. I wouldn't agree with that, because these young drivers who have to be accompanied, I don't think, are problematic. But even a good one can get into a solid and proper ride. The problem with older drivers is the problem. This is where I think we should do something. Not only is there a need for a medical examination at very, very big years of life. I think that age should be substantially reduced, but the medical examination itself does not solve the issue. I think we should have certain courses and driving tests. My wife's a doctor and she's doing these medical exams. The doctor cannot decide whether or not to drive properly on the road. He may be psychophysically satisfied, but, I'll say, time ran him over and you'd need some refresher course, including check his way of driving, his skills, and further educate such a man. Finally, I'd like to stop at the time of my sentence. It was said that the penalties had a short-term effect, but not in the long term. I am convinced that the penalties, as we have in the current law, could have a long-term effect. No one is afraid of punishment if he has experience and knows that he will not stop, that he will not be controlled, that he will not pay the penalty. I must say that I am here advocating that penalties remain as they are, but that they actually approach greater control. There is a need to increase roadside controls and offenders to be punished by those penalties, which are large enough and will quickly alert drivers to this control. Let me finish. I want you to really reconsider the level of punishment and maybe some other measures to improve the situation on our roads so that these victims will be at least a little less in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I doubt any of us will be able to say anything that's relevant. I don't think the problems we're going to bring to our attention would be known by government representatives. Nor do I think that we have a greater desire to resolve open issues in transport than government representatives do. Nevertheless, I would dare say that the proposals they come with do not solve the problems. Or because a simple law cannot solve this, or because all of us have become slaves or prisoners of some notion of excessive normism, so that we will have greater penalties, new rules and similarly solve all problems. You are well aware that we have already adopted programmes in this area with promises of great results. We can draw some information, and we can say that progress has been made. But mostly not. Because it is true that a few misdemeanors may be fewer or accidents less likely to increase fatalities. Especially this year. For a while we had a downward spiral, now we're steep, not standing, rising steeply. This year we have reached a number that is unacceptable. That's what I'm particularly worried about. In addition, there have been some new elements that we have not recently seen in the same way as we do today. In view of the fact that accidents occur due to irregular signalling, even in repairs, this has sometimes not been the case. This is some new element that we can talk about that we have a signalling system that is adapted and adapted to European standards. It is only a fact that no one has denied that accidents have occurred due to insufficient signalling. What's happening to us in the tunnels is something completely new. I must say, it's incomprehensible. Whoever can rationally explain it, I congratulate him. I don't understand it. Simply in modern technology and technology, with the development of the construction operation that we have, one day we find that we cannot drive faster than 60 kilometers through tunnels when it is a little wet. I don't understand. I believe that this is true and that the measure is necessary because there would otherwise be more attacks and more accidents. I just don't get it. And these are some new elements that are. We know the old ones. I'm sure overloading the road is one of the important factors. I'm lucky I don't have to drive too many Slovenian roads during the week. And you know, you have to do it more than once, especially my colleagues, who drive home on the highways, can't drive normally anymore. Even on the highways, on the route of these essential north - south, we find that there are three columns, not to mention two, practically full of trucks running ahead, that you no longer have room where you can normally drive not only 130, but also some other speed, 80, 90. That again there is a growing anxiety between drivers, which then has a significant influence on driving and also on accidents. I sometimes, until we had on these most important road relations, said - the main problem of driving is, say, on the Maribor- Ljubljana route or the Maribor-Primorje route in that you never know how long you will arrive. You plan to come in an hour and a half if there's an empty road. You plan two hours and you come in three hours, sometimes. I'm saying, now these times have gotten a little smaller. But not as we expected. Because you can actually count on Saturdays and Sundays when traffic is just a little bit down. Especially on Sunday, not during the week. At the tip, in towns and in suburban traffic, the traffic is 50 kilometers. It's no longer 15 kilometers, you can't count on when you can get to the finish line at some normally scheduled time. And that's one thing that I think is a serious question. Mainly related to the fact that we have freight traffic on our roads, such as, with such failure and quality, too. There's nothing to be done here. I don't believe it. That then we have a bad will on the one hand, if we do anything, in the truck drivers, that we may also have a bad will at the border crossings. But it would still be better to manage this than to have imprudent columns and hours and hours waiting for trucks at our border crossings, especially in Hungary, and partly towards Croatia. And that's one thing we should seriously consider. With humans and human factors, I agree. Each of us is many times, could say guilty or guilty as cause of a minor or major accident. Thank God we weren't in on the big ones. Otherwise, we wouldn't sit here and have a chance to talk. But this is not just a matter of punishment, not just a question of a sufficient number of police officers, not just a question of the level of punishment. And the current bill's proposal by threatening the height that is really high will turn drivers away from inappropriate and illicit driving not only at speed but also at something else. I'm afraid that's not enough and that's not enough and that in this part of prevention, in education from school onward, from the way to education. Even those who have committed a traffic offence should, in some way, be subject to certain activities other than criminal points, which could also involve education. I think we should look far more comprehensively for common solutions than we should go only with legislative changes. Mainly in the direction of increasing the penalty, which can do something, but I think the overall effects, as we all want. I say once again, not only Members, not just citizens, but also those who are proposing the law, but that they are simply some illusions that will not produce these full results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u63	Thank you. Mrs. Pecan instead of Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting to all present in the hall! Especially the representatives of both ministries and the Minister of Transport. I must say that I personally think it is good that we have received the law that we are now considering in the first reading, especially because the Government, at the moment the Ministry of Transport, I hope, will be able to make a substantial improvement in cooperation with all those who are already having an impact on the drafting of this legislation. It is essential that, if the proposed amendments to the Road Safety Act are already proposed, we pay much more attention to increasing all possible preventive measures that are not practically brought about by these changes. It is interesting, for example, that the 140th article of the Act is being amended, for the second time since it was adopted in 2004. However, it does not alter or accelerate this preventive measure, which is in Article 140. This is about beginner drivers. So, safe driving training. That's what my buddy Sušnik was talking about. Psychosocial relations in public transport and driving excellence. So, you're making excellent driving lessons. These are all preventive measures that can ensure that, in particular, young drivers are significantly safer for themselves and for others. The fact is that the number of accidents caused by drivers of beginners and young drivers is also talking about drivers who have already lived for two years, but they are still causing, perhaps because they think we are so good now that we don't have to watch out for the first two years and cause accidents that can cost them or their passengers or other participants in the worst traffic, that is death. I therefore believe that road safety prevention could certainly contribute significantly more to road safety. I am convinced that the whole type of traffic accidents, including those that have no worse consequences, are in fact the reasons for such accidents in poorly maintained or even poorly built roads and that sanctions for maintenance operators are those who are obliged to take care of road maintenance and those who are also obliged by individual maintenance measures to provide sufficiently clear, sufficiently transparent and sufficiently visible signaling that alerts to changes in the traffic regime that these penalties are substantially too low. The Public Roads Act punishes 300 thousand dollars, not for the responsible person, but for the contractor, for the company that does it. Whether it's a road company or a State Road Company or a company that's a contractor. We certainly cannot measure here the responsibility for causing certain accidents at certain points and always transfer only to the driver. Because of this, if the road is poorly maintained and nowhere is even marked, we cannot say that the driver did not adjust his driving to the road conditions. How, though, does he know that, say, the bank crashed and that it could be taken off the road? How does he know if there's nothing marked? And in that case, he's gonna have a car crash. He'll pay the fine, he'll be declared the cause of the accident for unadapted driving. At the same time, the company and the individual who is responsible in this company, and, of course, if it does, will pay 300,000 tolars. I think that at least, if we have already taken up this issue in the Road Safety Act - now I no longer remember the article in which it is written - I think that the penalty should be substantially raised over a million tolars or over 4 thousand euros. The responsible undertaking, the responsible institution, must bear its share of the responsibility in proportion to what it has caused. Because it could cause 10, 15, 20 thousand euros of damage and "nothing" would be called. This is also related to what we have heard many times today about very bad, often very poor signalling when it comes to maintenance work, especially on highways. With regard to Articles 140 and 169, the question for representatives of the Government, in particular representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, would have to draw up a regulation under Articles 140 and 169 of the Ministry of the Interior granting a licence. I'm curious. Is there already a regulation on the conditions for granting a licence to conduct safe driving courses, excellent driving courses and courses for psychosocial relations in traffic? Is the rules on the conditions for obtaining this licence already drawn up? When will the railways needed for safe driving exercise be built and when will teachers be trained? So, what knowledge do these teachers have to have, so that they can even get through their employer or in the framework of the grant of the employer's license, they can even carry out these tasks? And there's one other thing that I think belongs to sanctions, but in some ways to prevention. I am convinced that only monetary penalties or substitute prison sentences do not solve the problem. It seems that in the end, even today these penalties are not very low. However, the violation is so much that unfortunately they are not detected because there are simply no police officers on the road. I must say that I notice that Providence on the highway on the route of Koper - Ljubljana is not. I don't meet them. It's true that I drive by the book. But for God's sake, those who drive 200 an hour past me as rockets should once be caught. However, it does not appear that we would stop by the road and be punished. I think that the so-called public service should be introduced either with a fine or instead of a fine, and this public service should be carried out by violators in the emergency wards of hospitals in Slovenia and in Soča. In the Rehabilitation Centre where the victims of traffic accidents are lying and rehabilitated, caused by such people as chronic returnees and constantly causing or endangering the safety of other road users. Often the person who caused an accident due to wild driving, driving under the influence of alcohol, or whatever, is not a victim at all, but the victim is one of the ten. Not guilty, innocent ends up in Socha, and doctors call it a flower. Such a flower should be cared for for for at least 3, 4 days, and we should see if we would ever drive another 180 or 200 miles an hour on the highway or run over a full line on a state road or whatever. I believe that this measure, given that open articles on sanctions have been introduced as an additional or alternative measure to calm souls in serious infringements, where you have greatly increased the fines. Ask the doctors! I think this law is extremely interdisciplinary. Ask the Ministry of Health what they think about this. Doctors, those who need to be on duty and who work in the emergency wards say that this would be necessary to introduce it into our legislation. I suggest instead of just focusing on fines. Otherwise, I must say that I do not explicitly oppose them, but it seems to me that they will not achieve anything, but good. We'll see, maybe three, four months is better, and then it'll be the same song as before.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Friday, or Mr. Zinrajh, do you want? Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u66	I'm sorry I jumped into your mouth. Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, Madam Ambassador, I must say, because you specifically asked, by the rules of procedure. This rulebook is ready for us. However, validity is another issue. The problem is that operators need to be properly trained. So it's important to train them. And these ranges used by the school today do not fit Eurostandards. This rule of law also narrows the matter down slightly so that a transitional period is necessary. I've forgotten before, if you don't mind. As far as the Council for Prevention and Raising in Road Traffic is concerned. This government didn't shut it down. This institution remains, the road safety instrument remains. Of course it's connected to another department. His mission also remains. It's as written as it used to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u68	Thank you, President. I thought that Štajerec would also provide us with some experience of his way, Štajerski v Ljubljana, and he focused only on the answer, which I think was needed after all. When we hear this today, something came to mind that you may have overlooked, especially the Members of the ruling coalition. In October, Mr Saiovic addressed Minister Matei with a question of security on our roads. And that's when Minister Mate said that legislation was being prepared. The question was, however, that he finally proposed that a broader debate be held in the State Road Safety Council in this procedure. And members of the coalition then, as usual, rejected this initiative. That's what we're doing today. Today, however, we are discussing the situation on our road system or road safety and talking more about everything else than the law itself. If we had the opportunity and understood this, we could have done it, that is, a month or two earlier, and it would probably have allowed the law to take more account of the comments made at that time, which are now being expressed. Today it is difficult to correct the law by putting everything we say in such a form of law that already has a foundation. For this reason, it is only a warning that we are probably a little bit of a process, but I am almost sorry, confused or misguided. When I read the law, it occurred to me: why did Mr. Žerjav play a bearable role in representing this law? For me, this is a law that has been created clearly more in the police department than in his ministry, because I almost cannot believe that Mr Ljubo Zajc is particularly behind these articles, which talk about sanctions, which so dramatically increase penalties and all forms of repression in relation to offences. That's why I miss Mr. Mate. For this reason, I would like to ask and hear: For what and who convinced him that the law was actually the most devoted to this particular penal policy? Because I think it's a fundamental mistake of this law. I think that Slovenians, by nature, are not people who can react differently to what is happening on the road, but only by punishing at such drastic heights as are foreseen here. It seems to me that the Slovenians expect someone to be watching over their ride, watching them with radar or with cars in which the police are seated. And it seems to me that the combination of road traffic monitoring through this radar control and through the personal presence of police on roads, especially highways, would be much greater and much better than the rigorous penalties provided for in this story. Especially because what is happening to us, what is happening to us that we, who are so much on the road, are best aware of - almost no one is actually following us on the road. When we get angry at trucks running ahead of us on the lane, even where it's not allowed by road signs, we'd like a policeman to figure out that someone's doing this, that they're making long columns behind this truck, not just behind the trucks. We've all learned to drive on the left, we've forgotten the rule of immediate withdrawal to the right lane. They forgot that this is the basis of behavior on our highways. And that's something someone has to teach us, not through punishment, because punishment can't even be enforced because no one can see it. If there's no police officer on the road, then no one knows that a two-kilometre column has been formed just because they're driving or driving behind each other, but we're not moving to the right, and some of them are faster, and they could solve this very quickly when someone's backing off, but that's not going to work. And here it seems to me that the intent of this law suggests an inadequate understanding of the situation on our highways. The other is, of course, stories on other road infrastructures. For this reason, I do not attach to those who feel that the punishment must be so high, but it must be so thinly pronounced. The punishment must be appropriate. But often spoken for those who do. And that seems to me to be a better solution than such a drastic promotion. By also actually - and I want an answer, I may have overheard why we still have this provision that if you pay immediately, the penalty is half. I don't understand. The punishment is punishment. The punishment must be pronounced and paid. However, the system must ensure that it is paid. And if we don't have a system, and we don't have one of those violators, then the biggest violators are the most skilled at faking this punishment. All possible moves, all possible ways, all possible avoiding. It would probably be less if this system were simply created, in which you can't either register a car or you can't renew a registration or a driver's license or simply can't pay a toll if you don't find out or ensure that you've settled all your obligations to this country through a record of monitoring the implementation and payment of the penalty. So, the whole system seems to me to be in this direction to develop more than this harsh, catastrophic, at least for me, a penal policy that I don't think is appropriate. It is clear to me that, for example, these payers have no problem with the payment of fines. However, the problem is that those who may have been in a position to be careless on the road or to be inattentive on the road have exceeded speed or committed an offence that they did not even realize. These penalties do not deserve and are not even able to pay, and in fact this is their social situation, this situation of such status, which causes many, many more problems than I said, that they can easily finance different forms of purchases or invest resources where they have enough ideas. Therefore, consider once again whether this is a way to improve safety on road infrastructure or road transport and whether other solutions are more appropriate. There's something else we're forgetting about all this. We always have better cars in Slovenia. That's a fact. These increasingly technicalally equipped cars in hand - at least I think - are also increasingly well-aware and better drivers, today they are much safer than when we had the souths, the ducks, the faults and so on. The brakes are getting shorter. So the reactions of both drivers or, above all, cars are faster and better. As a result of this consideration of how to reduce speed on highways or in some other environment, I find it unreasonable, unreasonable. We're probably in a position to get angry when we're driving from a Mariboric direction towards Ljubljana or vice versa, we have to drive there between tunnels 100 kilometers an hour. I find the measure completely incomprehensible. I don't understand it unless it's a technical exercise that caused someone to limit speed to 100 kilometers. I believe this is the reason, the more stupidity and the greater the anomaly of this system is that drivers are sanctioned to exceed the speed of 60 kilometers in the tunnel. The one who caused us to drive 60 kilometers an hour in a tunnel, in a new tunnel, and he seems to be unsanctioned. And that one doesn't have any consequences. Here the Minister is more invited to defend such measures and such sanctions by the Minister of Transport than to defend these sanctions here in this law for speeding up or for traffic offences and so on. Well, if I finish. From this law too much of a strict legislation by sanctioning as a form of repression. I think that the better form is the way the Austrians do, the consistent recovery of the penalty, the penalty at some level, which corresponds to the material position of Slovenian at this time of all Slovenian driving. The combination of one and the other would give, at least to me - much better results than this law will achieve. Especially when you read the Resolution on Transport Safety in Slovenia, when you read a similar plan, say, for 2007. In 2007, I don't know if that was said today is a similar plan. At the beginning of January 2007, I think he predicted that we in Slovenia would reduce the number of victims of traffic accidents by 90 people. Which means that according to this plan one should be so optimal or the best result of 187 dead. If I remember correctly. These were the wishes of the government, the wishes of those who wrote along with NGOs this similar plan. Today the score is 246. It seems to me that November or October of the month will likely result in 280 deaths at the end of the year. So, where is the logic, and where is the reasonableness of planning a document that is one year old and one year old, we find that the plan is exceeded by half a year? I don't know how this is planned. I don't know what to think. Clearly, this process is within people who need to create a basis for me Members or people to understand the needs of Slovenian drivers. Well, there's something unreal in the cabinets. Some goal is being set. I understand that we should adapt to the European Union's target of reducing the number of accidents or the number of dead by 50%. Our wish is Luxembourg, which has reduced to 49%. Then let's take a ride to Luxembourg and drive to Finland or where these results are, and from there, let's rewrite the measures and the way in which drivers are raised and the reduction of these personnel. I don't know. Maybe they were doing it. Maybe you have these comparisons. Maybe our thinking is inappropriate. I hope there will be some answer to this, but when you read this document, you wonder who, in what way such documents are prepared, which at the end of half a year are completely different numbers than they were set. So the debate was necessary. I think it's right that the proposal for this first reading was a day. I hope, and at least it seems to me that the general opinion shows that neither the reduction in speed nor the capital punishment is the right way to reduce the number of accidents and that, in the second reading, through the comments we have made today, this law will be improved. In principle, I welcome the attempt, preparation and today's debate, which I hope will produce better results in law and in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Drofenik. He's quitting. Mr. Gulic. Here, you have the floor, instead of Mr. Slavinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u70	I have already suggested many things in the presentation of the Group's position. Now, after this morning's debate, I hope that the representatives of the authors of the law, that I will not hurt anyone in particular now or anything, but have heard the concerns expressed by Members from all the parliamentary groups and do not differ too much. It's obvious that we can get this all together in three sets. One of the conditions we meet Slovenian drivers on the road is that of motorists, motorcyclists, truck drivers and someone else. It is likely that the transport situation has changed significantly over the past few years. I am convinced that such day-to-day migrations as today, Slovenia has never met before. This means not only that more vehicles are bought, registered. But it means that these vehicles are way more on the roads than they were before. I am also convinced that what has sometimes been said to be ten thousand kilometers a year is some normal average, of course it does not hold much longer. But it's up to $40,000. Also, the restrictions placed on our very busy highways are probably not just because the cement has disappeared from concrete, but elsewhere. Let's look at the customs, and now I'm not talking about Slovenian customs on the road, but at all. On the Stairway or either - I'll say - from Kopra to Maribor it's quite common for trucks to get ahead of themselves. These things are in some ways not prohibited. They're on some sections of course, but they're not. Riding in the syringe, rustling at naturally relatively low girdle, significantly lower than otherwise permitted on the freeway. So, between 90 and 100, these things happen. No one's sanctioning that. Stationed radars won't detect that either. Maybe not with the cameras. But before this whole process goes anywhere, then these people are long gone. The discount that remains seems to me to be one of the perverse things. So, let's raise our sentences to an enormous one. It is said that they are essentially 6 times larger than in comparable European countries, but at the same time, let us keep the discount. Who does that serve? Tell me it serves road safety. This only serves to fill the state treasury. Nothing else, because people are somehow forced to settle the sentence in those eight days. And that's certainly not preventable. It would be better if you thought that the increased penalties would have a positive impact on road safety and the reduction in the number of dead, in order to then end this significant - indeed, I will say - purely Slovenian discount. We don't have one anywhere in Europe. Punishment always has an effect. Even for people who still have a slightly longer memory than any other beings, only if it is clear, if we know what we will be punished for, if we do something, that the matter is controlled and that it is carried out as quickly and consistently as possible, that it is consistently recovered. That's when it has that effect. I therefore prefer that the frequency of traffic control should be increased. I don't mean stopping someone no one likes. Control, driver's license, traffic, and then either there's a real triangle in the trunk or there's an improper triangle or it's just some kind of control. But it is those road sections that are dangerous, where there are many accidents, where there are fatalities or before them, that traffic is calming down. That's what I think works best. I believe that stationed radar can also help do that. There is something else that helps to improve safety, as special roadside warning systems are being developed. I think Nissan has something like this now in the two-year programme, and he's studying it, and I'm sure the technique will go on. Yet, in the end, we are left on the road by those who bear responsibility and also the consequences, the responsibility for our actions. The consequences are also due to the conduct of others who are directly involved in the traffic situation or those who have prepared something, unestablished banks, unpolluted vehicles. Let's say it's farm jobs and so on. I have never seen anyone sanction this before, but if you take all these imported state roads to Ljubljana, spring and autumn are full of mud and then it's floating around. I have to say that in the 35 years or as long as I have my exam, I've only seen, somewhere in Dolenjska, a farmer who cleaned up a vehicle that was rolled up because of his Polish work. I only saw it once. These things should also be put in order. Not just burdening the drivers. We have previously heard a few things about national character and these matters. Of course we haven't changed in the last 10 years. But you need to know, from 1991 to about 2003, 2004 the number of accidents or the number of deaths within the number of accidents fell. We have made considerable progress here too, probably thanks to all those who care about these matters. And this trend is probably based on pure logic that it's getting slower and slower. But this does not mean that it can be accelerated by such rigorous measures. Surely the general climate affects, if of course hatred, opposition, discontent at all levels is cultivated, then certainly people do not leave it out when they get in the car. And blaming them for being impatient, unwaited, under some pressure everyday makes no sense. The other thing is that people find it very difficult to give up some of their habits. And if we needed from point A to point B five years ago, let's say about 60 kilometers, an hour, but now because of the different spikes we hear about every morning, we have to go on the road 15 minutes or half an hour earlier. Such matters, of course, are kept informed and can be told in some other way. Except that if you don't behave, you'll be punished. We don't even work like that with kids, except with adults. The bill is from, say, SD Members, NSI Members, SDS, LDS, Really, National Communities and SLS today heard a number of things that I think would be good for me to think about. Most important, however, is the thought that has repeatedly been repeated that the matter is too complicated to be written by just one hand. This is where knowledge and behavior need to be brought together. And only then will our desire to be somewhere in the distant future be realized in the entire year no one will be dead on Slovenian roads. I know it's hard. But this has to be the real goal, not just some adjustment, some calculation, and then even a reading for it. In this way, transport security in Slovenia will certainly not improve. Even if we take as an example some other countries that have these matters otherwise arranged. And there, too, we need to know that they didn't come up with these results overnight, with only changes to the law, raising the penalty, but significantly different. There were also words about alcohol. I must say that although this law and this proposal may be a little harsh, this tolerance is still too high. This tolerance for causers, where the first or usually not the first cause, but it is always written there between the other or third causes of a traffic accident, or with severe or no serious consequences, is too high. Everything else would be, but here you obviously take into account either the pressure of the winery lobby or what you call a national character. This has nothing to do with it. People around the world are about the same, and we react roughly the same to the measures taken by any authority. I think there might also be something in another country to look at how they handled things. In short, I still don't think the law in this form is to be supported. That it needs to be worked out so that it can go to the first reading and then be amended. For now only those articles or some articles that are bound to punishment are opened. We can hardly say anything here but that the punishments are already high enough. As early as 2005, you know that the current law, which also had much more severe penalties in relation to the previous one, entered into force in that year, however, we had a traffic accident index of 103. So that attempt to raise the penalty did not produce any results. I don't know why we'd push this hard. Unfortunately, I'm sure that's why it won't be much less. But there's gonna be a lot more bad will between people. There's a lot more aggression. There are many more disgusting situations on the road that will need to be solved and poured with ashes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Minister Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! I'm gonna apologize for having to leave the session a little bit sooner. For we have a meeting with the presidents of the committees of the European Parliament, namely the Government, today. Which is why I'm going to answer your questions a little earlier. The proposal for amendments to the law is only one small but important part of the measures for greater security by tomorrow. The law isn't just punishment. These changes in the law also bring more security to bikers. Those who cross the railways, pedestrians and other categories of participants. The fact that this law is only part of the measures confirms the fact that the Government will adopt tomorrow a comprehensive plan of measures for greater safety for 2008 and 2009, where most preventive measures are in the field of education and education, training of drivers in motor vehicles, medical care for victims and so on. This plan also includes a review of the flooding of certain types of traffic signs. This is helping municipalities to ensure safety on local roads. I agree with those who stressed the importance of vehicle safety, limiting the Kubatura for young drivers, roads, education, education, counselling, warning and so on. At the same time, I am aware that these measures contribute to effects in general over the longer term. I'm sorry. That's what I'm asking myself. Or should we simply abandon unpopular measures, such as control and punishment, which have — and this is a fact — immediate effects on the number of dead and physically injured? I would like to point out once again that, as has been said several times today, this is actually the only measure we know and know how to take. So, repression, it's just not true. Let me say that in the field of road infrastructure, and now I am talking mainly about state roads, investment, maintenance, from 2005 to 2007, we have increased funds by 116%. That in 2007 the next year, according to the proposal for a rebalancing or a rebalancing for the following year, increased by another 16%. And we stopped at about 250 million euros. In the following year, 41 circulars will be built. You know that each circle reduces the number of accidents statistically proven by 75%. Even those remaining 25% are significantly reduced by the consequences of these accidents. We'll build 30 kilometers of new sidewalks, 17 kilometers of cycling trails, three intersections identified as black spots, we'll equip them with traffic lights. So much for infrastructure. So ZVCP is one of them. I mentioned a similar security plan that will be held at the government's meeting tomorrow. Many of you have also mentioned construction sites. I agree. We've increased surveillance. Very intensive surveillance. We have also decided to revise the rules in order to raise the criteria. Of course, we also continued to exercise control. Someone mentioned the prisoners. There was a lot of work done on the subject of prisons. Retirement belts. Regrettably, the decision on withdrawal belts has been made in the past. This is today the fact that highways are built the way they are built. I ordered Darsu days ago to start preparing intensive documentation in the following year, so that at least we will have projects to upgrade on these sections, where we do not have runways, and then eventually in 2009 - of course if we want and agree - that we will be able to start upgrading these strips in 2009. You mentioned so-called "gaysterfarers." We used to wonder when we were driving on Austrian highways and listening to "gaysterfarer" and "gaysterfarer" there. Looks like they're with us, too. And it's hard to stop it. The measure we introduced will be set up by 20 January by a table, yellow table. You know them, "stop, wrong direction." We have no better idea for an immediate measure right now. Preventive, Preventive Council. In 2006, €230,000 was earmarked for prevention, this year €726,000. And let us miss the accelerated construction of highways this time, which undoubtedly improves traffic safety in our country. Let us remember only the infamous Slovenes, or the part between Maribor and Cel, when the quasi was a fast road and what accidents were at the time when the traffic was significantly lower. So, does punishment mean a reduction in the number of dead? That's what we asked ourselves a few times today. Of course, to reduce the number of dead by effective police supervision is a fact. And a couple of cases. The law of May 1998 does not go so far as to reduce the number of deaths by 104 participants in one year. He had an immediate and extraordinary effect. This one lasted six years. Over the years, the number of deaths decreased by 357 in 2003 to 242, which is 32%. We've saved 115 lives. This is not just a Slovenian feature. Mr Horvat mentioned the case of France, where in the last five years - he made only a mistake in the number of radars - acquired 1,850 new radars according to the latest data. And they managed to reduce the number of dead in 2001 and 2005 by 35%. This summer, Italy, the latest data, reduced the number of dead by increasing the sentence within four months. Of course, on those roads where there was surveillance, 50%. As far as the social components of the penalty are concerned, as Minister, I am fully aware that the social situation of the offender must also be considered. But it is important to know that the most secure European countries are achieving security results on a completely different basis. Road safety ensures that all measures, including penalties, are assessed first through the victim's perspective. What does it mean to lose a mother or a father in an accident? What does that mean for their children? And it is only after we assess this that the issue of social deterioration of those who kill on Slovenian roads can arise. It has been 11 months since the adoption of the National Road Safety Programme. In 2007, we, together with the other 17 countries of the European Union, started a bad, catastrophic start. This trend was halted by the planned measures in October of this year and succeeded now in November and turned down in December. In short, in November and December of this year compared to November and December of last year, we have fewer dead. Today's trend needs to be maintained and strengthened. This is also the case with this law in 2008. Dear Members and Members! I am sure that in today's parliamentary debate we have managed to find a number of answers to the many questions and dilemmas that have arisen in the text's proposal. I hope that we have managed to reach a broader and not just professional consensus. We will be happy to support all those proposals that will reduce the seas on Slovenian roads. Efficiency and the community of co-formed changes in the law will be able to verify in the following year, which, due to our citizens and citizens, must be significantly safer than it was this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! Many views and causes were heard by the debaters, why so many accidents on our roads. I have to say that I agree with almost everyone. However, I would also like to point out some of them in particular. The big problem on our roads is the untapped drivers. The big problem is strong cars, cars that these inexperienced drivers drive. The problem is that they drive at high speeds, and perhaps our roads contribute. So the roads aren't suitable for these speeds. Third. Who are the inexperienced drivers? That should be defined by the legislator. For me, it's not just those who drive with an escort on the basis of the existing law, but also later. We, some of us, got our driver's licenses or passed them when we were 25. Why? Because we weren't even financially able to pass the exam. Today the situation is completely different. Young people, almost everyone has a driver's license when they're 18. Do you know why employers prefer to take on a job with experience? Because he's certainly more reliable. Have we asked ourselves how many reliable drivers prevent an accident, prevent a tragedy? I think you should ask yourself here, too. You know, it happens a lot when someone says, uh, it's just property. And I'm sure it was at the expense of an experienced driver. It's me, I'll always say we can't throw those who've been behind the wheel for 30 years and those who've been behind the wheel for a few years. Therefore, I will always say with certainty that there is no problem in a settlement where the limit is currently 50 kilometers per hour after the law. The one who will drive 70 kilometers an hour with 30 years of experience behind the wheel. The problem is the one who drives 50 and has no experience. That's what I'll always say or defend. From this point of view, this legislation should also be drafted, if I may say so. You know, let's do something to make sure there aren't so many young dead on our roads. You know what the biggest concern of parents is when on Saturdays or Sundays when a child wants to go to a party. I always say, kid, for me, the one who's 22, 23 years old is how he's gonna get home with who he's gonna drive home with. I'll ask mine first, who's going to bring you here. He doesn't have a driver's license. He's 20, 21 years old. He doesn't have a car. That's my biggest concern. But why? Because so many young people are dead on Saturday night or early Sunday morning. I don't know how much this law will contribute to preventing this. I don't see any solutions from this point of view. But I'm sure it's not a problem that only the Ministry of Transport should be dealing with. But surely there are other ministries, including a number of other institutions or interested public. You know we'd reduce speeds where there's a limit of 50 or 90 on less or on highways. That's not a solution for me. I'm saying it again. The biggest problem, I think, is that the driver is enormously overstepping that speed. Above all, the one who, as I've said several times before, has no experience behind the wheel, but something takes him, and I'm going to test the car. So I think that there is really some basis for what you have proposed, which is the right thing to have a general debate today. It is right that we have included or included Members and Members in the debate, expressed our views, our views. But I will conclude with the fact that we would now almost enormously increase the penalties. Here, I tell you again, I don't see a solution. I don't know what we're going to do to what, I think, the biggest problem, the problem of those who cause us to have so many accidents. That's what we have to ask ourselves. And we're gonna hit someone in the pocket just to make it better. I'm not an optimist here. Therefore, it would be good if we reconsidered to include in particular what I said earlier about young people. What do you want me to do here? Do we have any legal options on what we do more? That there won't be so many young dead on our roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Hwauc instead of Jerajeva. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Well, the debate so far has shown that road safety is a very complex thing, that it is not just a narrow area that one resort could cover, or one institution, that it is really necessary to involve virtually even Slovenia in driving more safely and that there will be fewer fatalities and other injuries. In my opinion so far, it has been quite useful, in my view, to look at the very smart proposals that it shows to be finalized and to be properly included in further procedures for the adoption of this law. However, some, such as their discussion, object to this law or changes. Otherwise, they've come up with a bunch of reasons for it, a lot of reservations, concerns, different grades. Allow me to respond to some that I simply cannot agree with. First of all, it's an important cause of the number of accidents. Death victims, too. Action taken at the beginning of this mandate. It is said that the technical checks are carried out within longer time limits. And because we supported this extension, we are therefore guilty of more accidents. I just can't agree with that. I, however, should be corrected by one of my colleagues, I simply do not know of one serious case that the technical failure of the vehicle would be the cause of a serious, serious accident. We hear about all the other causes every day, too fast driving, too fast speeding, too much alcohol, every day. To make technical failure a cause. I just don't know this case. That's why I'm also denying that this was the wrong move. Second, bad roads are responsible for many accidents. It is true that we are not satisfied with the state of the roads, that we have seen this and have done many things in this coalition in this direction. It started with a rebalancing, if you remember, dear colleagues and colleagues, for state roads in 2005, when almost no money was foreseen. However, the state of state roads was really very, very bad and these funds were constantly increasing. Also in 2008 and 2009 we can expect substantial funds for these purposes. True, though, what has been neglected for many years simply cannot be fixed overnight. Next thing you know, we're speeding up the highways, speeding up. As big a construction site in Slovenia as it is today, as it will be tomorrow, there has simply not been. And we know that highways are the safest roads. So we're working on it. Even to keep the road safe. Of course, with what other highways bring, mobility and so on. Despite some warnings that highway construction needs to be slowed down because it causes too much economic growth, leading to overheating of the economy, because too much resources are being made to do so, we insist that these motorways are being built because they are necessary. And even if the road is really bad, there are such points on state roads, on local roads. But this is an obstacle rather than the cause of an accident. If this cannot be remedied, if this is properly marked by traffic signalling and if the driver of this restriction takes this condition into account, then the reasons for the accident are, of course, not. However, if he drives where there is a restriction due to the poor condition of the road 50, he drives over 100, then it is not a bad road, but a failure to comply with these traffic regulations. We have heard that police officers are underpaid, that they have poor equipment, bad cars and so on, and that they suffer road safety. Dear colleagues! We have recently considered two budgets and amendments from the opposition - I think at least or almost half of them have been invested - were in this direction that funds are taken from the Ministry of the Interior. Now you decide what you want to have: a number of police, a well-equipped police force, and so on or you propose amendments like that for you to collect political points and in a month you speak something quite contrary. It's just a little bit of swindling and, in fact, flip and flip and flip and flip, and I don't know what else to say. Next, the abolition of crimes. One colleague mentioned - it was a bad signal, it was a bad measure for traffic safety. We carried out the Abolition at the beginning of the mandate because there were too many outstanding judicial delays and in any or most cases we would have aged. That was the reason. Why was it? Why did we get so many judicial backlogs? And we've probably told you several times. I'm sure it wasn't our fault. Of course, it was the red thread of all these debates - at least I understood it this way, those who oppose the law - to increase the fines. While I said that the fines are increasing to fill the budget, it is a robbery of people, one colleague said that it is a substitute because in some areas we have reduced taxes and we have to raise taxes here in order to make it even. That's what these statements were. I don't agree with that either. The financial effects - at least in my opinion of this law - are irrelevant to the country. It's the lives of people, it's the damage that's coming, it's the great tragedy. I wouldn't get the money involved in this at all. Otherwise, this law is financially neutral. On the one hand, for the worst offenses, the worst that cause 200 or more deaths. For these crimes we only raise these fines for you. On the other hand, we reduce fines for those crimes that are less fatal. And financially, this will be more or less balanced. Then, claims that the increase in fines does not yield any results, that more work is needed on education, prevention. There'll be a bigger effect. But look, it's hard to convince me that some soft approach, some persuasion, words will convince one driver of an Italian or a Romanian, Bulgarian truck that is driving through a tunnel in the Trojans at a speed of 100 an hour at a limit of 60. You'll find it hard to convince me that this same truck driver who decided to run off and then give himself five miles, who's going to be faster not to do it. It's hard, we won't change these drivers that way. We won't. And the next. Clearly, against the fines, they are the unknown drivers. Those who don't respect the law. Those who fear it will be necessary to pay for it. They're anti-increasing. They would be in favour of a complete abolition of the fines. They're like that because we don't need a marriage at all. Why would they drive by the rules if they could drive by their own rules? That's what some people think. And as far as I'm concerned, education is prevention, education, training, awards, warning, and so on in the first place. But that's not enough for all people. Some of this language, these words, do not understand these actions. Each of us has probably ever had a chance to get caught by a cop in some small misdemeanor, and it happened to him that a cop warned him, "You don't hook up, you don't have lights on or something like that." Most people take it positive. Positive. But some people think, "Oh, how well I got away, cop "butt" and so on." And the joyous misdemeanors continue to repeat you. And there's no other way to do that than a nice word, but a "beat" is called. That's it. There's no other. If they repeat, if it does not depend on advice, a warning, then it follows a fine. In the debate itself, we heard a lot of things. But I'm sure we're not here to pick up political points to get a round of applause from the bride drivers. Those who do not respect rules that do not adhere to rules. But we're also responsible for this. Because we adopt rules for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and we are obliged to monitor also what these laws bring to life people or are good or have positive effects. If they are not appropriate, action should be taken. And our only option is that we can act in this area by trying to improve the situation through legislation. However, those who have problems with this law or with these changes should put themselves in the role of a victim, one who is not guilty or innocent. Because someone doesn't respect the law because they don't respect the rules, it does him any personal harm not to say anything worse. You know, if we save one life with this law, it's worth supporting, and it's worth supporting. One life alone is worth more than, I don't know, a million political points or all of our seats together. It's worth more than one life. That's why I'm going to support this marriage that works this way. At the same time, I expect that there will be some improvements to be considered, some improvements to be made, some proposals that have been well-intentioned here, that we will also install them and improve this text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac instead of Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! Surely all of us can agree that on our roads we see problems, that accidents are great, that unfortunately those with a tragic outcome are great, and that it would suggest that we do everything we can to make these things right. Personally, I believe that the proposed solution is that this law, which we have received on the bench, is not the right solution. If we want to solve things this way, we want to solve things this way, such as the contents of this novel, these corrections. Above all, by increasing the penalty, that is certainly not enough. Multiple the fines of ten, multiply them by a thousand, so that the penalty for speeding is 10,000 euros, 100,000 euros. Then, but only then and in this way will you achieve what you want with repression. For the content of this law is primarily directed towards increased repression. You're not gonna make it through this. But on purpose, I said so harshly that you would see where it was going. If you want the road situation to improve only by increasing the penalties, then this needs to be exacerbated to an unreasonable extent. Then it must be sharpened to such an extent that people will be afraid to drive on the road at all. We all agree on that. It's not the right solution. Personally, I am certainly more supportive of education, education and, above all, training. The training of drivers, since there are many accidents, a number of traffic accidents would be less, could be avoided if the participants were better qualified. We have heard proposals that some who have had an accident that they have caused should be required to take part in certain activities. Like in a hospital to see what the consequences are. Why not make it mandatory for someone to participate in a safe driving school where he could be trained to prevent or avoid an accident? This is certainly one of the options, one of the measures that could significantly help to make the situation on our roads better. This and, as it is said, education, and, above all, education, to ensure that the way we treat ourselves on the road and everyone else is such that it does not endanger ourselves or endanger others. After the driving test, it is too early to start continuing activities for safe driving school, since experience is insufficient. But this experience, which over time comes from young drivers, shows that they can also be stimulated by the resources we receive through the fines to participate in further training. You see, this will be one of the solutions. This will be a solution that will not be repressive, which will not be based on the police state, fear. But the fact that the situation on our roads will also be better and better. But I welcome in the law some cases where the cannon stopped shooting sparrows like, say, invalid driver's license. This is certainly a positive change that the fine for such an offence has been reduced. Well, if your driver's license is over, you're no more dangerous in road traffic. I welcome this solution. At the same time, I notice that other cannons have emerged, with which we fire on even smaller birds than sparrows - solar seduction, driving on the last wheel. Above all, when it comes to sunbathing, I wonder: What is the acceleration, what is the deceleration, what is the sunbathing? Is that two meters per second squared? Is that five meters per second squared? It's not defined. There is no definition of what it is, in what cases someone committed a crime. And there are many other places where things are not sufficiently clear and explicitly defined and are therefore left as inconsistent assessments. In the assessment of the person who will sanction the matter. So, you're assessing the police. And I've talked about the police state before, and this is a step in this direction. It's not right. It is not right that matters remain so misplaced and so open on the one hand. On the other hand, I agree with my forerunner that we will not improve some of the foreign drivers with this training that we will carry out with us. But that is why I miss, I really miss more police activity in all, over a million carriers, heavy trucks that drive through Pomurje every year, so they don't turn away from the offenses because they don't know how to deal with them. For those drivers pretend not to know any foreign language. On the one hand, we who are there at the border are paid to take us across Austria to Ljubljana for two reasons. Before we get there, there's less traffic. The second is also because the penalties for possible wrongdoing, if possible, are much lower if you bring them through the village 10 or 20 kilometers too quickly. However, at an acceptable level of punishment, at one normal level of punishment, there are no excuses for not being able to deal or anything like that, including for professional drivers. They just don't let him continue driving until he clears the reasons that prevent it. This, look, this is something I miss very much. I'd like to make one more point. This is because there are no or too few circumstances in the law that have led to wrongdoing. Too many things are put into unrealistic. But we all know that circumstances can be a key factor and that circumstances are such or different. They have a key influence on whether a matter is dangerous or not. I'll just give you a case. Like driving through tunnels, Trojan tunnels now that the limit is completely unnecessary 60 kilometers per hour. We all drive and see that this is a more political matter than actually for road safety reasons. And someone goes over 30 or 50 kilometers an hour. The circumstances here are significantly different if someone drives through tunnels 90 or if they drive 130. So the difference is the same. The difference is exactly the same. In a relative sense, it is even smaller in another case. But as it is said, no one takes this into account, and nowhere in the law is this situation explicitly mentioned. I'll also give you an example of work on the road somewhere in the village, limit 40. Work's done, the traffic sign hasn't been removed yet. And if someone exceeds speed under such circumstances, it is something quite different than normal circumstances. And another thing is, if we go over speed by 30 kilometers per hour, the fine is 1,000 euros. It's the same thing if we go 50 kilometers an hour. The exact same fine, including EUR 1000. There's a difference in criminal matters. There's no stimulation. I'm telling you, there's no stimulation, but you needlessly sharpened your sentence of overexcess for 30 kilometers per hour to almost two wages. Someone's got almost two paychecks. Get people into existential problems, and it happens very quickly. And let me say this one more time, I'm sure we're not going to solve this thing, maybe improve it by six months, for 12 months. But then the story will start to repeat itself and you'll see that we'll go back to what I started with if you want to solve things this way, that you'll have to multiply the penalties by factor 10. But we all know this isn't going anywhere. Let's find other solutions, find other options and invest in transport players in the first place rather than go with such harsh sanctions on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! Perhaps just a word, two, or some other thought at this consideration and hearing of the debates. Many good advice has been received by representatives of the ministry and a great deal of ignorance. If only one of the matters of my colleague Slavinac, who had discussed before me when he was talking about sunny coordination, if the mayor were, I do not know where, in Murski Sobota or where, probably at least two or three complaints at the weekend would be received by the owners of the guesthouses for the sunny conduct of young people or those who use the place at two o'clock at night. I hope that when he thought about the circumstances, he had only those circumstances in mind and that it was not a situation for us to talk about on a bad road or something. According to analysis or data, there are very few accidents caused by the state of the road. But everything else is more important. As I said in my presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] In preparing the law for second reading, let them actually examine some of the irregularities or inconsistencies that the colleagues have also presented in order to prepare such a law that will endure. [[...]] I'd do it one more time. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u81	Mr. Bajc, I'm sorry, time is up and I thank you. Mr. Slavinec, did you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I want to replicate, because I was obviously misunderstood. Look, I don't deny it if someone's running a tire that's not right. However, this is certainly not a fine of EUR 400 compared to the others. I said, with a cannon, we shoot sparrows or even smaller birds when we get 400 Euros in the process where the tires grow. And if that's intentional, then I agree that this has to be deepened, but not with 400 euros. But solar seduction is something other than a detour when tires wheeze when it's accompanied by a big sound. Yeah. And the law, despite being written by lawyers, will not be wrong if it is physically corrected, if it is written physically correct and does not use concepts that mean something else that are defined differently. And that was my message. At least two messages, therefore - that the punishment is absolutely too large for this to be done, not to distinguish between someone who has given more hard rubber or more soft, if we are a little specific. And that's why, in the same way that the tire was rolled, it wouldn't. Because we all know it depends on the tire and it happened to him unintentionally. Or if someone is doing this on purpose to alert their arrival or departure from a location. I totally agree with you guys. But once again, the fine is absolutely too high. And I also suggest that the record, the dictatorship in the law, be harmonised so that it is correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac, instead of Mr. Jelinčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. President. I can't get past it without saying it first. Dear colleague Hvauc, I have listened to your debate, and I must say, 95% seemed right and really constructive. But when you finally wanted to be demagogic, you failed - in the sense that when you said so, you put yourself in the person of the victim. God forbid any of us here or anyone in Slovenia will need this! God forbid! Comrade Hvauc, take the role of the parent of the victim of paedophilia when we imposed punishments, proposed to raise sentences in the Slovenian National Party and you objected. I can give you your demagogue. But let's just leave it. Those who do not support this law do not support it for exactly the same reason as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. To a greater extent, it does not support the laws proposed by the opposition. In the beginning it says, we don't support the law because it doesn't deal with the problems. And the same is true of this marriage far from being complete. And I believe it will be of benefit to you all if you want to print from the network of the National Assembly a magnetogram of the esteemed colleague Paulia, who told you very precisely in his speech what a law we want to prevent is to cover. I hope you heard that at the time. But your marriage only involves repression, from all three points only repression. And don't say that you'll follow any opinion, because you know you can't. If we wanted them, we should withdraw the law and prepare a new one. We know which articles are open to the opposition's amendments. I'm against repression, I say, repression must be, but to a certain extent. Some tried to be european again when this law was advocated and went a little overboard. And they said, yes, in Austria. Yes, dear colleagues, who mentioned Austria and Italy, compare the percentage of the sentence at risk in the case of average personal income in this country. Then compare. The minister said that in Slovenia there is a problem of so-called "geistfarers" from Austria or drivers on the opposite side. I agree. It's a big problem. He's been showing up lately. I don't know if you know, but in Austria they did a survey on this subject. Why do people drive accounts? It's your first bet. Youth do this for a wager, secondly for suicide and thirdly for the influence of alcohol in driving. And you know what their solution was? Those who drive here and there, I can tell you about Graz. They've set up ramps. If you haven't noticed them, take your time. You know how the ramp was built. When you get on the highway, you've got the first 100 meters of sensor that detects you driving the opposite, then the ramp closes. And I don't care if someone makes a bet or falls into this ramp in a suicide. But I don't care if it hits the other side of the vehicle. And that's the solution. Not some kind of high-end signal. You don't have to go too far, just across the border, and look at what solutions look like. In some cases, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia was mentioned. My respectable colleague, Mr Saša Peca, and I myself have proposed quite a few amendments, which, according to our belief, are a black point of transport from our place. You know what the vote looked like. They are voting on the amendment, and one of the Februarys of the ruling coalition has done just that. Score. Take a look at the voting statements, my respectable colleagues. So much was the same vote, and so much so that I was already terrified at the end because I had announced in advance how many of you would oppose and how many would be in favour. And today you will explain the budget! About 30 kilometers of new roads! About the money for prevention! Please! Not us, I'll say, feed, even though we haven't had lunch yet, with such demagogies. We would rather ask ourselves what we, as Members and you as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and ministers, can do to make these victims smaller. First we go to what our colleague Paulih said at the outset, to prevent. We're going to prevent first. Let us create absolutely the best conditions for the implementation of road safety prevention. We don't have that. You'll agree here. It's never good enough, but let's do the optimal ones to defend it. Someone mentioned elementary school. These actions are very good, very welcome. But according to my information, the budget for these actions is also being cut. It's not a prevention, it's not a positive impact on children. With them, this development begins. About the Kurativ, I think there's been quite a bit of a talk. I think it's huge. I am seriously interested in why you decided to save the victims, indeed for a short time, but I can be a little demagogic or political and I will say - until the elections we saved and we will reduce the rate of death on Slovenian roads based on repression. From here on out, maybe we're not interested anymore. I don't agree with what the minister said, and he said, "Tomorrow."because we usually hear it from the government. The law isn't complete. But tomorrow we're going to adopt some submarital act that's going to take care of all of this and it's going to have an impact on both the curate and the prevention and the repression. But we're just Members, you're the Government. We don't have those papers. I have only a law before me, as you propose to us for admission. This law is nothing but a solution to the problem of repression. A few words were said about the so-called stationary speed gauges. There was one thing that happened to me last time that I couldn't believe. I was driving across the Trojan Clan 90 at the limit of 100. So I was taken by radar. It wasn't 60 at the time, Mr. Hvauc. It was 100, because there was a dry road and asphalt on the dry road, you know it's a stamina. Because we're driving on the same road. And I came across the Trojans. Then I guess I've got a new radar back at the Lopata in Celjska. And I drove 90 to 130 again, and he took another picture of me. The red light flashed on me. Is it possible that there is a poor quality? Did we put some weird story on this highway? Let's ask ourselves maybe about that. In the village where I come from, there is a road-level restriction through the village 70 kilometers per hour. The locals are doing their best to reduce their speed to 50 through the village or to place so-called popular lying cops there. Do you know what the procedure is to put a police officer in one of the places near the school?Oh, my God! First, we will set up a radar that will measure how many percent of the real violators are, showing otherwise by at least 15 kilometers. I'll tell you firsthand. I drive 65, he shows 45 or 50. I'll tell you firsthand that this case is not valid and not valid. Check them if you don't believe. And then a copy comes out of the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Interior, but there are no significant speed violations in this area or a small percentage of people are in breach of the speed limit rule to put the police down there. I mean, is that pile of asphalt really so expensive that we can't provide it where people want it and maybe contribute preventively to regulating traffic in a settlement? But we did have, say, three fatalities in the last year at this section. Apropa, let me tell you what happened - those accidents are no longer considered by anyone because they are everyday. And this is the prevention we're trying to talk to you about. Let's try everything first, and then let's hit people in the pocket. But not to spank them in the pocket first, we all agree that this is a short-term measure, that it has no effect in the long term. Only then will we go to some sort of prevention. And today it's popular, after all, when we listen, I'll say, not peers, now they're a little younger colleagues, because in their own way it's cute that they took my driver's license. At least now I have something to do with my life, and I'm looking for the guy who's gonna get me through this for an hour and 15 grand of old tolars. And the technical checks were also mentioned, but there is no time. However, technical examinations, ladies and gentlemen, if you walk the streets a little bit, you don't have to drive there for 25 euros either. They bring you home to have the right vehicle, no matter what's in your yard. And don't act ignorant! Don't act ignorant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Hwauc, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u86	Thank you. Well, obviously I wasn't very understanding. It wasn't about any demagogies. But I wanted to say that as traffic participants, we meet in double roles. We are once those who are subjected - I don't know - to what repressive measures, and we want the penalties to be as small and as loose as possible or as loose as possible and so on. On the other hand, we can find ourselves in the role of victim. And since we are discussing important matters today, I think that the right approach is that we all play the role of the victim and see what all these things can bring in traffic, I don't know, to anyone. And that's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Really for a minute, a minute and a few seconds. What we were actually talking about - what I said at the outset in the presentation of our Group's position. To follow in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group all the good proposals here, respected colleagues and colleagues, today has been quite something. This is an obligation for applicants. So for the government, both for the Ministry of Transport and for the Ministry of the Interior. We've been watching, we've seen that they've made a lot of notes. I hope and we want this not only to remain in these notes, but that this goes to the content of 106 articles, as provided for in the bill, of the 270 articles. As many as there are now laws in force. But it is hard to expect that this law will be so good that it will not be upgraded in the near future. Both by its content and by taking into account some progress, which is also linked to speed, with the strength of the car and the situation on Slovenian roads, which are also improving from day to day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u89	Thank you. Does he still want a government representative? Thank you. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I can still see the hands, so I'm opening the application. Please register all those who wish to take advantage of this business opportunity for discussion. Everyone has four minutes. Mr. Hwauc, please. Okay, we'll consider it, and we'll tape you up like the ninth. Mr. Hwauc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u90	Thank you very much again for your word. See, earlier in the debate there was also a lot of talk about heavy freight traffic, which also affects safety on Slovenian roads. And there is also some indication that we have practically done nothing in this area, that there were no measures, so that all these trucks that are rolling through Slovenia, mainly in the direction of the west - east and vice versa, that these trucks should have been on the railways long ago, thereby increasing safety, increasing the speed of travel, comfort, etc. This is not as simple as some think that we will just adopt one law and we will put all trucks on the train at the Hungarian border, the Slovenian-Hungarian borders, and take them through Slovenia. That's not possible. It is therefore necessary to have alternative infrastructure, road, this is a railway case and this railway infrastructure has unfortunately been in such a state for many years that it does not allow for this at all. That's one. Second. This government is the one that started some new investment cycle on this railway infrastructure. As you know, the reconstruction and electrification of the railway against Prague is under way, where there is a single track, which is also a special obstacle. In other sections, this infrastructure is being modernised more rapidly. I hope that when we have this infrastructure in place, we can really do something to make this freight traffic go away. Secondly, Slovenia cannot directly influence the number of these trucks that drive on Slovenian roads. Dramatic changes occurred when we entered the European Union. My colleagues who know this information will say that there has been a multiple increase in this freight traffic on individual routes or sections. We were not prepared to enter the European Union at that time. We were without a transport policy, without prior preparations in the transport field. This has simply caught us in this very awkward situation. While some measures have been taken in this area. For example, on what much of Slovenia's motorways trucks must no longer be overtaken. I've clearly set up a road signal. But unfortunately, these trucks don't hold it. They feel sovereign in those stunners heavy, I don't know how much 40, 50 tons and they happily walk through Slovenia. Sometimes they miss a small passenger car because it is not known to him because he will push it off the road or simply skip it. And that is why I expect in the future that there will also be control over these drivers, who are acting in this way and also threatening others, to be greater in relation to the fines provided for in the legislation. It is said that, on the one hand, on the other hand, control over this and quickly, quickly within a month or sooner, they will find that the matter is serious and will no longer be such a mess in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Maybe just a few more words of content about the law. Before me, my colleague mentioned trucks that really present a major problem on Slovenian highways, mainly because they do not adhere to what the signs prescribe, as mentioned above. There is a ban on speeding the truck, the truck or whatever. But maybe here we could really do something based on repression. Here, indeed, perhaps the owner of the company for which someone is driving could be punished to such an extent if this driver is doing so, but this money could indeed fill the state budget. Because this is happening shamelessly on Slovenian highways. And if you look at the statistics a little bit, you'll see that there's a lot of traffic accidents just because or indirectly because of some truck that happened to him. Maybe just an appeal to the Ministry of Transport. Roads shall not be repaired by replacing the 70-limit sign with the 30-limit sign. That's how traffic is calmed down on the damaged road. This is an example, including from where I come from. For there has been a sign of 30 for nine months because of a bad road. And there was already a fatal accident this year. But nothing's moved in six months. When I made this amendment, you respected gentlemen of the government's coalition, vehemently pressed against. Vehemental. Very elegant and simple. And today you're fighting for human life. And every life and broken finger is worth the euro they would give me. Don't hold your neck today, but there's a punishment coming, always later. Maybe there's something more procedural about this law. One of my predecessors said, "I hope the government will follow these instructions." I see you've written a lot of things down. You have been following along beautifully, and you have been sneezing some good advice. But the procedure is clear - the law should be withdrawn, made whole, arrived in 14 days, three weeks. There's not much work to do. Believe me, you've done it quite quickly, too. Come to Parliament with a comprehensive solution that will cover prevention, curativeness and repression. And then let's have a chat. Members, we have the possibility of drafting this law only in articles where we will be able to table amendments. In no other case. Don't talk and pull out the government to take that into account now. And in 14 days, we'll be changing the law. What we already know today is that he's bad, and in 14 days we'll be doing a new job for work. Let us once make a good marriage for all eternity, in view of it, we will change it when the trend dictates that we have to change it. Not because we have to put this through today. So we can do a new job in three months. That's bullshit. It's work. Nobody does that anymore, except I think, people who are employed in the government. So that we could have something to do, because otherwise it would have been meaningless if we had made good and life’s laws. I'm stressing again, and I'm not embarrassed. I can also, if you want, put myself in the role of the victim when it comes to road traffic regulations, but I will not support such a law. You're doing the same thing. The same has happened with the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. You easily refused without having anything in your head. The note said "against" and that's it. It doesn't say anything to me today. But I'll tell you that in my conscience, I will vote against it. Marriage isn't complete, it's too simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u93	Thank you very much. And I give the word to Ambassador Borut Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. Of course, traffic safety is no doubt a problem that touches all of us. They're victims. They're damage. It's an extremely large number of deaths, but they're somehow saved. The consequences of their actions remain different or the army of those who have suffered injuries on the body and are thus marked for life. No doubt, something had to be done. You've taken your first steps. You could say, in some areas, more fortunate in the right direction, in others less. However, these steps are small, even in the right direction, not sufficient. Today, there is no doubt that we have the opportunity to reform this law, to upgrade it and to improve it. There has been a lot of talk about penalties for traffic offences, and I must say that I do not agree with such a drastic increase, because if one of those people who are already living in one way or another gives a traffic offence even a month's wages, I think we have placed the problem from one place to the next. However, it is, of course, a temporary and effective measure that gives results in a short period of time, and this can be agreed upon. As the mayor of one of the local communities, I would also like to think about it, you have no idea how difficult it is to build one sidewalk, but it is not only about the money that we are making in the local communities with the new laws we are adopting, because we are giving the local communities new, new and new tasks and responsibilities. There is no doubt that the money from the state is too small. It's also a bureaucratic procedure. What nonsense is going on, I'll give you one case. Last year, we had a death victim on one road. We immediately took up matters, prepared a costly project, took over costs, and now in the end the matter has stopped. You won't believe where. In the state. We do not get consent from the Slovenian Railways, because where the state road is now taking place, there was a railway route 40 years ago. And the state itself, the one on the Slovenian Railways, does not know that the Ministry of Transport has had a state road for 30 years at the same location. And now the procedure stands, I think it's been three months for such a banal consensus. What did it take to order the valuer, pay the compensation, pay the price, and so on? Where security is concerned, there should be local communities and the state should give itself a hand and a process to shorten and greatly simplify. But I agree with all the measures that go against driving under the influence of alcohol, driving too fast. There is no doubt about such matters and there is no excuse for our aggressive behavior. And there should be a lot of work to be done in high school. Since one of my kids is learning to be a young driver, he's going to be doing the exam, I hear these stories. Some help themselves to complete tests with various such and different "plonk" sheets and so on. This education should be sharpened in the light of responsibility. No doubt about it. People really need to know what they're doing on the road. On the road every day you meet drivers you ask yourself about, and it's not gender-dependent, we're not men and women here when you ask yourself when someone does things like that, you don't know how they got their driver's license. This is a serious problem and the law itself [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] He can't do everything. [[...]] We will also have to do much for those who are already drivers, for those who are learning to drive or who are their fellow passengers, perhaps a smaller penalty, or more responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u96	Thank you, Vice President. Where it is not reasonable or impossible to set up a police force lying down, it is necessary to locate mobile and standing officers. I think that today there have been so many calls in this direction that the ministry will have to take seriously into account the urgency, otherwise the penal policy envisaged by this law will not have the effect we want. Today, we will conclude that this law is a suitable basis for further consideration. I will not object to this decision, but I cannot support it either, because there have been so many comments by the coalition colleagues themselves that I do not know whether it really fits the qualification of "the appropriate basis". There is a visible effort, certainly something to be done, but this effort is not comprehensive and does not go in the right direction. I already regret that the responsibility of regulating road transport and road safety has passed from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Transport. But I also accept that if we do something to finally, and visibly, reduce accidents on our roads. Yesterday I was waiting for a bus, and someone on Slovenian Road went wild, I won't overreact, from 120 to an hour, with a hairdressed car, engine, headed towards the Congress Square, there turned around, after five minutes he went wild back. At the time there was no one cop, there was no one who noticed, wrote down the license plate, and in any way acted. Someone can afford wild rides in the middle of town in front of distraught viewers, pedestrians watching what's going on there, but no one's doing anything. Last but not least, look, I'm just a proponent of some even more radical moves to limit speed. Last time I wondered why we didn't have the courage to put in our space with tax policy, with tax instruments, with incentives, if we wanted to, on the other hand, reward those drivers who put in their cars a speed block. We can't do more than 130 an hour, but we have cars on our market that go 250 an hour. It is true that you cannot limit driving to 130 because there is overtaking and so on, but it is clear that we could - of course we do not hope here to sway into our car industry, either into the car industry or into the car trade, because there are too many lobbies, too strong interests, to easily certain categories of traffic participants, but I do not think those who have the right to drive faster, police officers, paramedics and so on, have made it technically impossible to drive at such a speed that there is an incident. And last time we had control, we were talking about video surveillance in our tunnels. Today, we have such a system that this video surveillance is not useful and is not useful for those who drive too fast to register, detect, and punish. I say that the system should be turned on so that the police, as the body capable of taking action, can be placed in the control system also in the tunnels and we will be able to detect, identify and punish traffic and speed violators in the tunnel as well. So a number of these ideas were today. I hope that once again the ministry will try to take them into account very carefully, through reading the magnetogram, and perhaps in the next phase with the amendment of coalition colleagues or with amendments tabled by the opposition if today's decision is taken, it will also complement them accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u97	Thank you very much. However, Member Roberto Battelli has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u98	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Road safety is also conditioned, as we know, by the overall quality of life in a given environment, in a given country, by the economic, social and legal protection of every citizen. This is followed by criminal policies for credible and effective ones. In the next period, however, a lower financial pressure is expected on the construction of motorways alone, namely infrastructure. However, it would still be necessary to pay much more attention to some of the quality of traffic and road construction and maintenance later on in my opinion. And here I am thinking mainly of the quality of horizontal signalling, which I think is in Slovenia, I do not know why, but much worse than in some other countries, and the quality of white signalling is also different. Then there is the problem of asphalt quality and the problem of poor lighting of roads. I believe that in these three areas it would be possible to require the establishment of the highest existing standards. There was something about trucks that had already been said, mainly by a colleague of Hvauc. This is actually becoming a big and new problem because these trucks are actually huge on our roads according to previous periods. It is not uncommon to encounter situations when three trucks run simultaneously, several times on the highway, etc., jump into the emergency lane and force other participants then into "freezing" and various maneuvers. In conditions of poor visibility, i.e. rain, etc., it is even more dangerous. And here, in my opinion, it would be necessary to better monitor all these offences, which may have very serious consequences. And in this regard also the question: Is it wise to allow trucks to pay tolls between ABC tracks, when that path is essentially combined, is ABC plus payment, many times those who are ABC users, we need to be very careful about trucks moving both at the entrance to the toll station and then at the exit from the toll station. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u99	Thank you very much. However, Member Ivan Grill has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance, all in attendance! There is no doubt that in Slovenia we have a large number of fatalities on our roads, a large number of seriously injured and all of us must do the most to keep this number to a minimum. We have heard a lot today about the reasons and nothing will be wrong if I repeat that the key reason here is certainly too fast, the guilt of drivers, youthful play, and all other reasons are probably not so crucial in such serious traffic accidents. How, though, can we try as a society here, like those who can make decisions, to limit or lower these things to a minimum? In the short term, this is certainly a change in legislation. And that's before us today. But in the long run, it can only be education, and it raises from young people's feet or from our youngest ones in kindergarten and all the while we are in the learning phase, and not least, experienced drivers with a long tradition are right to refresh themselves every once in a while with the knowledge of traffic regulations or the news that we are witnessing in this area. Finally, I think that every parent, each of us who drives our children, must be an example to our children in driving, in compliance with traffic regulations, in reaction to road traffic. And the child is the one who looks at his parent as his model and probably also follows these reactions. This means that if every parent in this area tries to influence their children, he will do more than anything else. The road infrastructure, which is better every day in Slovenia, can otherwise contribute to greater safety, but we can see that there are many fatalities on the highways, which are driven mainly by fast or too fast. And now, specifically, if I touch this law. In this law alone, I think that over 95% is really very, very good solutions, which I fully support, and I believe that with some amendments we will also be able to try to improve things in this area mainly on the basis of many good proposals, suggestions, criticisms that have been through today's debate. Here, however, there are also fines that are somewhat divisive to me, as I myself estimate that monetary fines or fines in the form of such high amounts cannot at least contribute to a lasting awareness of the danger in our road transport and, of course, also affects all of us, in particular in those areas that are the most dangerous or most contributing to traffic accidents, so that we will also take these things into account. I would therefore appeal here to both the proposer and everyone else to try, above all, to find solutions in the field of fines that will have more of us. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the educational impact, which means that not only will the money fine, which has a short-term effect, but it must work on us educationally in order to make us aware that any such serious infringement is a potential threat to the worst disasters. [[...]] And if we do this with these changes, I think we'll have a great law that will help reduce heavy traffic accidents. But it'll definitely be [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] long-term search for solutions in education, in kindergartens, in primary schools, in secondary schools and, as I mentioned earlier, every parent must be the first to be the first to be brought up. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u101	Thank you very much. However, Member Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. I certainly support and welcome any action that leads to greater transport security, as the situation on our roads is worrying. I therefore welcome all the debates today that have gone this way. However, many of them have also drifted away in search of some local interests. So we've heard that tolls should be lowered because someone's taking the kids to school. As far as I know, primary school children have a guaranteed transportation or I wonder who has a school so far away that it's worth taking on a freeway. Then it was a good initiative on refresher courses for road traffic regulations. Recently, tests could be obtained and completed on the network. I tell you from my experience that they are very useful, because personally I was not most pleased after I completed these tests. In these years, from what I've done with the driver's license to this day, a lot has changed, and they're very useful. I hope these tests are still available, and I highly recommend them. Above all, there was a lot of talk about high penalties. I myself partially agree with this, but the scale should be very progressive. So-called returnees or old acquaintances of the police, should probably have no mercy at all. Above all, the status of conditional punishment should be restored, i.e. someone who commits the first offence or is not known as an offender, to be told that he receives a penalty of perhaps EUR 50, 100 and EUR 500 per two years on probation. And I'd give you two years of conditional thought to how to drive. There was a lot of talk about equipment. We used to make it difficult on our own. In the short time of our colleague Pavliha's ministry, we had no need to change the first aid and manufacturer A, with producer B. The one that I "throwed out" is still useful in the household, the only Hansaplast lost something of quality in these five years. That's exactly what happened to the triangle. I'm very much stressing the importance of black-point rehabilitation. Many sections of the road are black spots because time has hit them. And radar control itself won't solve it. The radar works on a very transparent part of the road, otherwise it cannot detect you, so at some opaque part the speed cannot be measured or very difficult or the results are controversial. It should also be welcomed that those stubborn offenders and drivers of serious traffic accidents face the consequences either in the form of public works or the compulsory survival of a day or two in the area of rehabilitation of disabled persons or persons with disabilities. Public transport will have to be arranged for several reasons. In particular, legislation that comes with regard to climate change, renewable energy sources and so on will certainly give an emphasis to public transport, which needs to be improved because it is safer. Finally, I would say that sometimes I am a little concerned about my colleagues, and rightly so, because there have already been traffic accidents and I think we should also look for some hidden reserves in our own kind. Because sometimes I see, especially if the session is late in the evening, that some are unusual, I would say, unnaturally happy.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Member Tomaž Šteba has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u104	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors are here! I have volunteered to make a creative contribution to this general debate on road safety, perhaps more from a technical point of view and from the point of view of what some have mentioned. We do not have the right tradition of culture, respect for regulations and awareness that in most cases infringements should also be followed by appropriate punishment. And those penalties could then be significantly lower. With us everyone is calculating, if we're honest, how many times have I managed to commit a crime and not pay, Gorenj'c would say how many times have I saved. What happens to us is that paying for a misdemeanor and being caught in a crime, and it's proven to you, is more an exception than a more likely rule. In fact, I reject all these demagogies in terms of monthly wages and high penalties. More importantly, we all realize that it is a high probability that you will pay the penalty if you commit a crime. And now it's just a question of how do we all come to realize that when we commit a crime, this probability is very high, and it actually discourages you from breaking the rules. I think in technical terms we should have all these radars and warnings that say "You drive..." and thank you very much for telling me how much I drive, that this needs to be changed in a way that these radars can be mobile, that you can put it anywhere in this box, that there is a radar or no radar in this box, but that the breach should be determined by the measured speed and recording of the vehicle with the registration number. That way, the offender gets a free home video and not a free ticket. If this probability of being caught on the highway, on the state road, and on the local road is very high, there will also be a very high probability that people will stop committing excessive speed violations. If it is a local road, it goes into the municipal budget, if the state road is a state road, if the highway is going to Darsu. In addition, all such infringements should in fact already be in force in this regulation, so the legal form of the infringement is that you sanction the infringement. Of course, every offender has the right to judicial protection. In the case of lorries and also in future satellite tracking systems, you must now at least enter into the truck system to detect any speed violation and any traffic not permitted in the sense of overtaking in the sense of driving on roads where trucks are prohibited from driving in such or other times. In fact, trucks would no longer pay annual contributions in the new toll and toll system, ecological taxes, etc., but would only pay the cost of using roads and tolls as such. This system would be very effective and practical in freight vehicles and in vehicles for which legal persons are entitled, you do not need any human force, provision and administration of these penalties. In addition, as mayor, I am aware that, for example, on municipal local roads where the limit is 30 etc., why it is not allowed in the regulation to be only one sign at the main points of the area, but not that this sign must be at every "shit" intersection. This only increases the number of traffic signs and deconcentration [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Member Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u106	Thank you very much, colleagues! Today's entire debate, which I am assessing with my colleagues that it has been useful, has shown that, by amending the law we are talking about, we are putting out a fire with a simple fire extinguisher, which would require at least a fire department. In comparison, I will say that the support of formula 1 in England yesterday drove 200 an hour and was punished, but only for comparison, with 600 euros. To compare the penalties we have for over 30 km. But let's leave. It's about penalties, and we have to admit it, it's already very high. Remember at the time of the introduction, the change in the law, what happened. The results were positive for three months. After three months, the results have deteriorated considerably to this day. And unfortunately, that's how it's gonna go on. Proof that we don't do anything about repression. Secondly, let me remind you that we had a road prevention and training institution, a state-run institution that I believe this government should have abolished. I wonder why. Let me give you some advice. Throughout the world and across Europe, it is already compulsory to carry out a safe driving test. We have an official institution in Slovenia that is already doing this. I did it, and I paid it out of my pocket. It's okay, but I'm not sorry. And I sent both my sons to this school. Tip, introduce a compulsory safe driving school into the law. 100 times, 7 years old, I was the first one to take these trucks to the railways in Slovenia. I've been driving myself for about 30 years from Trubovlje on all roads. Desperation, I tell you, despair, living despair. I count them. There's a lot of despair on the Trojan road. Sorry, we don't have a highway anymore, we have a two-lane road, one of which is absolutely meant only for trucks, absolutely speaking, impossible. I've got to drive seven miles down the emergency lane so I can normally get into a column of passenger cars. It's a living despair. These are the main causes of the accident, believe me. It's been a day, to make a list of all those who are affected, I'm saying now, I'm starting with methadone. I personally see methadone come to the hospital, get their dose, get in the car, and drive away. Just like my friend said it was a little creaky. Such people should not drive until a normal state and drug independence is established. Next step. Let's see and be realistic. Our society is very consumer and rich. We have to admit that. Consider the relationship between the development of techniques, between the number of vehicles and the quality of these vehicles and the condition of roads. There's no limit to proportionality here. The roads are suitable for the number of cars that are already in place today, the number should already be minus at least 100,000 cars. And we have 200 grand. Every member of the family has their own car. And lastly, I agree with my colleagues, marking black points with one board would be a useful warning. I've listed some tips so you won't say we're just criticizing. And I suggest, really, it would be wise in the law, as it is now, to force, on the door to the nose, to withdraw restrictively, and to make a correct, smart marriage, with prevention, education, compulsory safe driving school and order in the conduct of driving exams. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We have also concluded the entire general debate with your debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in half an hour, at 4 p.m. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue with the earlier adjourned session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposal for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. I do not see a complaint about the work or against the work of the voting apparatus, which means that we can start voting. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the takeover and the way in which the obligations of the Slovenian Ironworks are settled in relation to the restructuring programme, following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law amending the Act on the takeover and settlement of the obligations of the Slovenian ironworks in relation to the restructuring programme is not suitable for further consideration. I request an application on behalf of the groups of Members. Explanations to the voice, please. Ambassador Srečko Friend, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is more than a reason not to accept this position, which has somehow been imposed on us. You say the law is not suitable for further consideration. It is appropriate to take into account the fact that 5,844 shareholders were injured. Look, right in front of your eyes is the fact that the President of the Sales Control Commission, Mrs Maria Zagozan. I'm not going to explain where this lady belongs, where she's registered, which client and so on. It will also be in the eyes that we cannot overlook the fraud that is made just in broad daylight. There is not even enough shame in individuals to cover it up in part. I don't believe that's an acceptable fact for those who actually follow us and watch us. It is up to you to do what is right. The blame will have to be corrected, if not today, and tomorrow, by some committee that will actually investigate this theft. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic, on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u111	Thank you very much. It is clear from the proposal for amendments to the law that the applicants come from the types of Social Democrats, the first to be signed under this law is colleague Dara Lovtišar Bebler. In view of the developments in the past days, including yesterday's response by the President of the Government to the parliamentary question, we still believe that this matter should be investigated or set up by an investigative commission, but unfortunately the stars are not the most favoured at this time. That is why it is all the more important that we today reject the proposal made by the parent working body, which speaks of the inadequacy of the proposed law for further consideration. The Coalition does not agree that this law should be adopted, so that is also the conclusion of the parent's working body. The only thought that matters as much as water is that, on Monday, you did not confirm or confirm the conclusion of the basic law that it was inappropriate to change the law on the privatisation of Slovenian ironworks. With him, we wanted to eliminate the injustices of employees, former employees, pensioners, all those who invested their share of their wages in the ironworks, so that they could be trained so far that the state could now, as it said, successfully sell them to the best bidder, while injuring small shareholders, although it provided them within the law or within the negotiations and probably within the contract, that they could buy a share of €190 per share. And we set these same people in 2001 a nominal value for 100 thousand tolar shares. So the difference is more than obvious. This means, of course, that small shareholders would also do a bad job, as the Government did, so they would sell their share at a price, as negotiated by the Government. This law, which could have been adopted, of course if there were an understanding, would have abolished the injustice or what employees, former employees, have warned us about within the Slovenian steel industry. We will therefore oppose the proposal of the parent working body and will not vote in favour of not being able to deal with the proposal further.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I am opening a procedure to declare explanations of vote on my behalf. Here you go. Member Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u113	Thank you. Indeed, the problems arose in 2001, and this has now been confirmed by the proponents because you said that in 2001 you fixed the price of these certificates to 100,000 tolars. And in fact, that was when this problem arose, and, as I said earlier, unfortunately we cannot solve it in our time. At that time, the price was determined administratively, by law, at a time when the Slovenian steel industry was in difficult conditions. It is said that this price was actually overblown. The price which has now been fixed has been determined by the market - eight interested parties, three tenders submitted, the highest selected. These are the facts. I understand that some feel injured, but not all of them, because the two companies accepted the offer, but only one did not accept it. And it is clearly waiting for this favourable trend to continue and this share will be worth more. That the sale was not transparent and that it was not carried out in accordance with what this National Assembly has adopted, we cannot say that. In the past, we've all been injured, we've invested in peds, where the certificate says 100,000 tolars, and then we get out 5, 10, 8 thousand tolars. We've all been injured, but we can't fix this anymore. We can't. Sorry! And the same is true of this case. It's an investigative commission that's supposed to be dealing with this. I hope not on the basis of what you have repeatedly claimed when you misread the note. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The customer's website, where you read only the first sentence, that the Slovenian Government sold 55.35% of the share for over 300 million, and you did not continue to read that the purchase was EUR 105 million and that the buyer pledged to invest more than 250 million in the Slovenian steel industry for further development. [[...]] If this is the basis for an investigative committee, then forgive me, it is a very bad and insurmountable foundation. Just like those rumors that were [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] by the proposer, Mrs Beblereva, said to be the property of the Russian buyer in Jesenice. [[...]] The Earth Book is public. Such properties are not available, they are still in Slovenian ownership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u114	Thank you, too. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u115	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. With common sense, it cannot be understood that this Parliament rejects such a proposal for a law that would compensate small shareholders who were undisputedly injured in this process of selling the Slovenian steel industry to a Russian buyer. It is clear to everyone, even though it is not an expert, but an expert, like Mr. Cernač, for such things that the Slovenian steel industry was sold under the price of a Russian buyer. It was sold below the price to a Russian buyer when it was known that the steel industry and the steel marketing were in a konjunktur position in the world. And that's why it's unacceptable to be so ignorant of these small shareholders who have been irrefutablely damaged. Do we even know who we are talking about? We are talking about 14,000 people or more who have worked for years in ironworks in Jesenica, Ravna and so on, who have given up higher wages, which, by the collective agreement, belonged to them in order to contribute to the rehabilitation of Slovenian ironworks. And then their shares were sold at such a price. If Mr Chernač speaks, what does €105 million actually mean, what does it mean? The price is the price. And on the Russian buyer's website it was clearly stated that he bought the Slovenian steel industry, this 55% share of EUR 300 million. Ours say they bought it for 105 million. What difference does it make if everything is so clear if everything is so transparent? Then let's give logically [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u116	Thank you very much. And the word is given by the Member of the Victory of the Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The Slovenian people have been stretching from 1992 onward and stealing it where it could be and where it could not be. A man would expect this theft to stop in 2004, but we were damn disappointed, because he is still stealing from the Slovenian people and he is still pressing his own pockets. The fact is, in this case, it was a pig business where someone made a great deal of money and bumped their pockets to the top. That purchase, if we say only 100 million euros, will only be paid in two or three years with profit. Slovenian banks have credited a great purchase to a Russian buyer who has pawned the not yet purchased share in order to repay the loan. This is only possible in Slovenia. Unfortunately, this legislation was drafted by the previous government, the one from 1992 to 2004, but we expected someone to hit the table with a fist in 2004 and those who had been doing this to themselves for a long time. No, no, no. What happened? It's going on the same way. Yeah, well, how long is our Slovenian "butty folk" gonna suffer all of this? How much longer? And until when are you going to milk him, by when do you think this poor nation is going to slam to the skin or what? Porkfix? It is high time that the elections and the time for something to change, and then I hope that they will be so smart that they will give their votes to the one who will really put these tycoons in front of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? Anyone other than my friend Squirrel? In view of the fact that several Members have expressed their wish to explain their vote, a reopened procedure has been opened. I'm asking you to sign up. Member Happy Friend has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. It's nice to say, marriage is not suitable for further consideration, and this solves the matter for you who rule. Why are we here, if not for the sake of making the law acceptable, that it will be useful within the framework of legality and that it will defend the interests and rights of citizens and citizens. I'm stressing again. You're going to steal 5844 people, you're going to take away a significant portion of the money that they invested in this company when they gave up their personal income. The Slovenian economy has previously rehabilitated this industry with exceptional funding from the state budget. We're forgetting that. And so-saved companies, I can tell you that the same story was with the General Sailing, 75 million dollars from the budget to this company, that we sold it to a foreigner, to a German who borrowed the purchase for a month, and then later raised this purchase and his ownership was left. And we did the same story at Mercator, you're doing the same story now with the Slovenian steel industry, and it's nice after the same "guy" forward. First we're gonna fix it, then we're gonna sell it. That's what you do. There's nothing to be ashamed of. I don't know where she went. "In the middle of the day," it would be called. I say, good thing it's less than 300 days before the election. That's the only thing that's good.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u121	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I'll back the bill myself. So, I'm going against the decision of my mother's working body. But not because the marriage would be extremely good. The law is flawed. But at least talking about this law, about this privatisation, will allow us to keep this law in the process. The former government has privatized many things in a different way. Even in a way that was not transparent, we had investigative commissions and something else on this account. But she did it in a professionally untransparent way, with style. When you took up your mandate, you did it forcefully, without style, and also unprofessionally. Whoever here will claim that it was not a political game in this first privatisation of this government will lie. The President of the Supervisory Board was when this story was sold, Maria Zagozhen. She decided what the price was, and we all know that the Slovenian steel industry was sold at a price. You're all talking about protecting small shareholders. Tomorrow we'll fight the tycoons. In the Slovenian National Party, we have prepared an amendment for tomorrow to protect small shareholders, and I will see on the committee tomorrow whether you will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Member Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. I also believe that the law is not suitable for further consideration for a number of reasons. Maybe it's about a small shareholder's statement. They are not the only small shareholders who have been squeezed and damaged on the market. Similar phenomena are also observed in other companies. In fact, it is not that far back when Terme’s home company came to this and perhaps another. In particular, it seems crucial to me that, in those most critical times of the industry, there was a buyer who is a very serious customer, who has not only collected market capacity and closed the factory, but even invested in new development programmes and, in fact, the ironworks work with full capacity, achieve plans, development and progress. And what's more, one of the ironworks is in Gorenjsk, in Jesenice, and there are some people I know and they say that Russian owners are very strict owners who are in charge or who are very committed to all plans, with regard to quality, capacity and market share, prices being met. First of all, you should ask those who are in the business who are in the profession, what do they think about it, because I think they're generally satisfied. New jobs are even opening up. I've even heard they need 500 metalsmiths in the fall, but they can't find them. The new situation has only brought about some development, so I see no reason to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u124	Thank you, too. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u125	Good day to you all! I regret that you cannot accept as a positive law that would at least correct the injustices that have been done to small shareholders due to the poor, wrong, inadequate privatisation of the Slovenian ironworks. I don't understand you, I think it should be in your interest to clear this up as soon as possible and we have announced a parliamentary commission of inquiry because what the President of the Government said yesterday is true. He is prepared to make all the documents available, but we cannot treat these documents differently in the National Assembly than in the form of a parliamentary commission of inquiry if we are to identify what is at the heart of this. This is the political responsibility of those who, aware of the fact that the global market economy has provided 400 million Euros to the buyer, knowing that we have invested 500 million Euros in preserving jobs in Slovenian iron shops, so to speak, to the first buyer who has come through. When I first read the information on this Cox website about it, I have to say that the text was different, we paid 300 million euros. And I believe it's very hard to prove now, because now there's something else in here that says where the difference went. That's why I believe there's a lot of confusion and thinking about how someone's gonna cover something up. Therefore, gentlemen, do not defend parliamentary investigative commissions, do not defend laws that want to protect and reveal to the full why we have made such a bad deal. I think that this is in the interest of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, so first I will vote against the proposal of the mother labour body, and then I believe that it is necessary to address the wrong privatisation of the Janšev period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u126	Thank you very much. However, Member Srečko Hvauc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I don't know how long it's been since we can argue about what the purchase is, what's not the purchase. The fact is that Koks is the company selected in the invitation to tender between eight bidders and which offered the best offer that the company paid a total of more than 350 million or more than 300 million euros. And it clearly says on that website that some people obviously can't read because it's in another language. That's exactly what it says, 105 million is direct purchases, plus what's more, but investing in this company. And second of all, as far as these little shareholders are concerned. These small shareholders received certificates in 2001 instead of paid salaries. And the main problem is why they didn't get paid. Why did they get this in the certificates? That's what we should be asking ourselves in 2001. The second thing is how this price was determined. Administratively. Someone just made up the idea that this price is 100,000 dollars or 460 euros, and with that data, some of you are operating here. And the market is [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] showed how much this stock is worth. [[...]] The stock is worth as much as anyone is willing to pay for it. In this case, on the basis of the invitation to tender, it was found that the market value of the share was slightly different. I don't know why we have to do this 100 times. But in fact, obviously some of these things you don't want to understand, but the facts are that. I will not support this marriage. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And I will vote in favour of the decision of my mother's working body. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I will vote against the proposal for a decision of the parent working body that the law is not suitable for further consideration. I feel responsible for the fact that the Slovenian public, especially the people who created the assets of this company, who built this company through their history and the history of this company, are, of course, provided with clear data, clear information as to why there was a difference in the value of the shares according to the estimated value and the value that is on the market today. It is not so easy to agree to the fact that the market regulates things and then that workers, those who co-created certain companies, can, for the high market values of the securities of a particular company today, for example, get for those securities that belong to them and substantially less than they could get. I do not think that this is a lonely case in Slovenia, that these cases are yet another thing, and that there is a lot of wealth at the expense of those who have for many years given up for the fact that someone can now come along a simpler path to significantly greater property. I am convinced that in this house we need to talk about these issues, that from case to case it is necessary for the Slovenian public to raise all doubts as to whether it is transparent, non-transparent or whether there are certain backgrounds for the sale of such companies. It's about trusting people in this institution. Sam [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I am sure that the debate on such a law can answer what the President of the Government is saying about the fact that they have followed other interests, other objectives, when selling this company. [[...]] And if that is the case, I am sure that it is only right for us to talk about this in this house and to answer the Slovenian public about the interests involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Depending on my desire for further explanations of vote, I'm opening up a re-appealing circle. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Were you not here yesterday in the National Assembly when Comrade Lahovnik asked the Prime Minister a question about these matters? Finally, what very rarely happened was that the honourable Member did not even submit a proposal to the President of the Government to open a debate on this point or this issue. That didn't happen yesterday either. However, the President of the Government has made it clear to you that the Government has all the documentation about the sale and that you can see it. At least that's what I understood. If you've misunderstood, there's probably something wrong. The President of the Government made it clear yesterday that all the documentation is available to you, the one you doubt about the sale, and it will be available to you. And it would be time for us to get this over with. However, the documentation will be available to you, as Prime Minister Janez Janša said yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Member Jože Tanko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u133	Thank you so much for saying that. I think we're kind of in some serious trouble. At first, workers needed a lot of cancellation. When this cancellation ran out, it took a lot of recovery, and when we did it, then, I don't know what to do. In short, there are a lot of problems from this period, the history you're talking about, there are a lot of problems from the previous governments, from the Rope period, and these are all unfinished stories ever since. The fact is that this Slovenian steel industry was sold on a public invitation to tender, that it was sold to the best bidder, and we can only find that man can only be "stupid or deaf" so that he does not understand it. This was also said on one of the public contact shows, and there was one of those who always knew everything, then he could even sit down to the end of the seats quietly. The fact is that the results achieved by this Slovenian steel industry are now several effects: first, on one side of the market, on the other hand, I suppose, also the result of the investments made during this time, and not least, probably, in part or in large part, also the result of the synergies created by the new owner and also the markets and volumes that this business has brought into. Just as simple, automatic results, profits don't come in, as some people are trying to prove here. And in fact, we can only be happy that, after this period of sales, there have been such increased results. And probably in another project that was sold at that time, similar things probably happen. I think these criticisms you're talking about are completely unjustifiable.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Member Borut Sayovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Chairman. I will vote against the decision of the parent working body, because if we have a problem, then it must be resolved. An opportunity lost, no one comes back. We have also found that we have set up the New Credit Bank Maribor too, and this is clear to us in the Slovenian steel industry. I like that this industry is still working. That's one piece of the medal. The second is, when we decide to sell state property, it is necessary to choose a suitable time and as far as the steel industry is concerned, it is known what kind of government is involved in the world market, that prices are rising and that the golden egg-carrying hens are not sold. I think that we all need to be even more careful when we sell state property together, especially those to whom this is a service and professional competence. Obviously, in times when economic growth is booming, when it is prosperity and prosperity itself, then there is no need to sell. These are times when something has to be saved. However, if we know that all those who submitted certificates to the Slovenian steel industry, which were about €417 at the time, and then received €190 for this sale, about half of them, then this means at least that I have a problem to discuss, in order to avoid making mistakes that we may have missed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Member Boyan Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. I didn't intend to advertise, but I think it's all a little too much; the rights of workers must be protected by the state. Well, if that's what they've been saying, those who have been deprived of in the last 15 years with this privatisation that I could have told her was just one such scam for centuries. I have already said that two million Slovenian citizens have earned some value in the property of the company, and now it has about two to three thousand Slovenian citizens. Where was someone to protect these small shareholders who practically sold their certificates for free? Who was there to protect all the workers, including those in those factories that went bankrupt because they didn't get absolutely nothing?Oh, my God! Then where is the right to all these matters? Why didn't we do it? If it were right, we should do it for everyone and when it was time. These processes are closed! And I really can't believe that we're moving here like this, and we don't recognize what's happened to this property in practice, and how this country and these authorities that have been allowed to practically enrich themselves with this deception by just a handful of people who have had these privileges and so must have been able to seize this property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Member Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I will vote against the proposal for a decision of the parent working body. But I ask the following question: Why do many suddenly allow themselves to play with this country and this government like a cat with a mouse? If there is really information about the ironworks that Koks has paid much more than this government has written in Slovenia, he will play with this government and this country, as he would like, in the face of the threat of re-publishing data that are horrifying. It is similar with the Maribor Credit Bank. Where are the reasons why Slovenian citizens did not get shares but went to Bermuda to some speculative companies? Is it not similar to what we hear and see recently that the German intelligence services have recorded a bank robbery and that they are already demanding counterservices at the Triglav Insurance Company and so on? Isn't that a similar matter within the state of Mercator, where, for me, I think, most of you too, the President of the Government just admits that it was a mistake that happened to someone who profited 50 billion years ago and that it happened in the cabinet of the Prime Minister? And we can keep listing these stories. What's going on at the Croatian border? Croats do what they want. The concrete wall was built on Hotiza, on Slovenian territory and across the bridge, although we say the border is on Mura. And every so long, we have a story that this government has no explanation for. And those, including coalition partners who defend Slovenian interests, are voting headlong against the decision we have before us. This vote will also be interesting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Member Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Vice President! I will vote in favour of the decision of my mother's working body. And if I vote for the decision of my mother's working body, then I'll explain that there will be no speculation. Today, Members and Members of those parties who had 12 years of authority in the hands of the creators of the sale of the Kori bank, when Slovenia - citizens and citizens, taxpayers, were being rehabilitated, today is in the hands of foreigners; who were selling the Ljubljana Bank, who knows what already, behind closed doors. I'm not saying that this government has done everything as it should or that it has done everything best. Far from it! Everyone who works is also wrong; however, she has made the sale of the bank of Maribor transparent, with a call for tender; yet she has made the sale of iron - transparent, with a call for tender. Everyone had a chance to sign up. She didn't exonerate anyone. Colleagues and colleagues, have you forgotten when it was you, some of you sitting here today, by pressing the button, prevented the treatment of the site of the century, the damage to social property, the commission of inquiry to at least consider the report adopted by the Commission in the then National Assembly in 2000. You stopped it, and you have not a double face, but a hundred faces, once, twice like that, just like you do. I'm here to be "painted" with things like this. However, it is also right to admit any mistake and many mistakes have been made, catastrophic, felt and felt by our citizens and citizens. I don't think such a mistake was made this time that it was necessary [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u142	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that there is still a desire for a debate, we are opening the fourth round to apply. Please, all those who wish to explain your voice, do so in at least a fourth attempt. Here you go, please. Member Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u143	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I myself will support the proposal of the parent working body that the law is not suitable for further discussion, because it is not actually appropriate. I am surprised, however, to all those who say that the Slovenian food industry was sold below the price, even though it was sold on a public invitation to tender and sold to the highest bidder. It was said that we all know that the Slovenian steel industry was worth more, because we all knew the conjuncture on the world market and that we should therefore survive this sale significantly more, but where you were when this industry was selling, and where all those who knew about the situation were for greater value in order to offer more and then to buy it. How is it possible, as it has been said, that a chicken carrying golden eggs is not for sale, but if we all knew about this chicken, how there was no one to offer the right price as you say it was known to everyone. This kind of talk is completely incomprehensible to me and I cannot accept it, so I will have no trouble pressing the button that the law is not suitable for further discussion, because it is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u144	Thank you. But to my word I call on Ambassador Rudolph Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. Mr. Vice President, Your Honor! Many are now talking about the Slovenian steel industry, such as it is now sold, and this industry is supposed to have been saved years ago when someone else was in power; but you know, you are not principled. You're talking about something else. In this SJ, which he has now sold, there is no longer the Iron Store, which was restored at the time, as you speak. There's no more Armature Muta here, which you're talking about being rehabilitated at the time. There's no Ravne Knife anymore. These were two companies that were extremely productive at the time as well. There is no longer the system technique of Ravna, that is, those techniques that you sold for a very miserable price, and then the new owner, who was the eminent representative of LDS, immediately sold it to the Austrians for twice the price. It's that technique. No more Toville. You probably don't even know what kind of company this was in the ironworks, which was also repaired. But if you know, they're the one I'm apologizing to. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] No, they weren't nails. [[...]] And second. Everything was sold or given without a call - even those companies I was talking about - or under the table, and the money that was to be sold was not paid by the buyer. There's probably something else to talk about. But here it was - I don't know, I'm not going to say that for the first time - it was very transparent sold at a public auction. And if you knew that this company was so valuable, then why didn't you try to organize this company anyway, and if we all know that the ironworks are so transparent right now and they make so much profit. But the problem is that it was sold transparently. And remember that it was for this particular industry that Mr Mencinger said it was worth nothing and that he should "shank" it for a Slovenian tolar. Now this is not going to work together if you all knew what a great value is, but why Mr Mencinger said it was worthless and should be sold for one SIT. So, because this was all transparent, I'm going to vote [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u146	I call on Ambassador Ivan Grill to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. I will also support the decision of the parent working body, because it is quite clear that the drafter of this law has been solely oriented in the sense that he will now put such a topic in public and by misleading us all the time, he tries to represent this purchase as bad in the public eye. In fact, we have been given that whatever the Government does good - and that is a lot - is then placed in public, as if it were to the detriment of our citizens and citizens, and that is not the case. If this sale or this ironworks were really as golden an egg as some try to represent it now, then this international invitation to tender would be essential - a number of bidders willing to offer a higher price for this. However, it is known that this offer was far higher, and not only price, we know that in addition to this price, the buyer is obliged to invest all three years in the development of this industry, which is in Slovenia. It means that whatever else there is to be created here will be invested in this industry. This purchase was by far the most transparent in the sale of Slovenian property, and I am still firmly convinced that it is also possible to prove this by looking into the documentation of anyone who doubts it. Yesterday, the President of the Government made it quite clear that all the documentation was available for everyone to study the matter at open meetings, and in fact it will be possible to prove that the sale was more than a proper or good deal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The word has been sent by Mr. Dusan Kumer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u149	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. It is a pity that yesterday, when you discussed the programme in the course of the programme to the European Union more quietly, we did not include intercultural dialogue in the programme as well as the so-called inter-Tacukun dialogue. Perhaps this would be an interesting topic for anyone else in this European Union. But I stopped by for another reason because several members of the ruling coalition were wondering where you were, what you were doing in the past 12 years, and so on. In my humble person, my fight against the tycoons began in September 1994, and after nine years, I was also legally sentenced to a fine. Therefore, I suggest you look at this one - and only, in my opinion - judgment in Slovenia and then set up a strategy to fight the tycoons. Of course, I protected almost 5,000 workers in one of the industries called the metal manufacturing industry.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u150	My friend Anton Kokalj, although I shouldn't have given you this, you have a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Given that we are celebrating the 15th anniversary of the National Assembly, given that outside people are waiting for us to perform and so on, and seeing that this debate is likely to last until midnight, I suggest that you set a half hour break, that formally this celebration begins, that people who have obligations to us can do so in order to show them some solidarity and then continue the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your proposal. Given that we are in the framework of the first vote today and that we have a few more votes ahead, I will put your proposal to the vote. I ask all present Members and Members to submit by pressing the "for" or "against" button to the proposal, which reads: to stop the meeting in 15 minutes. We are voting on the proposal of our colleague Kokalja. Mr Kokalja's proposal was not accepted. There are 58 Members present, 24 to 30. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 30.]] I'm guessing we're moving on with the session. Member Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Chairman. In view of the fact that there has been a multiple debate on this case on the working body, I can trust the proposaler of this sale, the Government, that she has taken a good step in doing so. A good step now that it is seen that this company is obviously successful. And that it sheds a bad light on the then owner of the company that sold it is a little incorrect. I am in general for not selling good Slovenian companies to foreigners, definitely. The mistakes have already been made, Lek for example, thank God, Krka has remained in Slovenian hands and today proves to all of us how successful this Slovenian company is. But in this case, it would be difficult to say that at the time it was a successful Slovenian company. But it is true, because of the facts on the market of Europe and the world, that it just collapsed and worked well at that time. Apparently, some of this is going to be very eye-to-eye, why you sold a successful company. At the time of sale and the procedure itself, transparency, formality, international call, according to the Government, in the view of those who have explained this to us, both positions and opposition, I believe that it has been transparent. There's no reason why the sale was made. It's more like why you sold it. Therefore, I think that if the offer was given to all potential stakeholders, why they did not apply and give more purchases than Cox did, the matter would be closed. So, I'm going to support the proposal, as the mother's working body gave it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Member Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We've heard today, or we're talking about changing the takeover and settlement law, but we've heard a lot of things about what was, what was, what, who, where, how, when, and why. But the fact is only one, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, if you knew about the mistakes, the tycoon and don't know what else the previous governments, is of course to expect you to correct those mistakes, but not to repeat them and do the same. People elected you, too, and I believe that because they hoped and thought it would be better. But apparently that's not the case. And not now to report to each other. Another time. Look, one of the previous interlocutors said, yes, because it's nice, because now it's doing fine, they're new jobs - blah, blah, blah. I know how it goes. Instead of coming, I will say, specifically, Mercator in Trbovlje to build a large centre, he is going to Bosnia. Why is that? Because he gets half-priced land or free labor. That's why the Russian came here. Third time. Colleagues and colleagues, you know, it's one thing to buy, and there's something else that promises to invest. The price is 100 units that someone paid. Three hundred forty units or four hundred promised: they will or will not; that I may not remember you that tomorrow we will talk about the takeover law, about the small shareholders, how someone can "enrich" them on the road, etc., which will happen here. This is all a warning or a warning, so that's the warning. And if everything was transparent, it's okay, we'll see through this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. I will vote against this decision, of course, because today I have heard so many arguments against this decision that I think there is no other decision. In particular, I would like to say that, of course, the mistakes and minor sins that have taken place over the past three years are worth some round sums. Let's say, from Mercator a little over 200 million euros, then let's say, then NKBM 160 million euros, and now we're all hearing, probably in fact around 200 million euros, because the claim that 105 million euros was a purchase is going to be worth 200 million euros. We have even heard that they have already invested in investments or for the modernisation of production, from March to today. He absolutely does not believe that a single euro has been invested, and we also have claims from the surrounding area that no investment money has been invested in SIJ. Where's that 200 million? When will they be filed? What are the investment plans? If the government has all these papers - right to show them; let it tell us how we will solve the problem of these 14,000 workers who have been robbed in some way. And I must say this, rather than being glad that in the process of adopting this law we would have the opportunity to prove that those who question transparency and also the true price of selling SIJ are wrong. No! No! Of course, you say that marriage is inappropriate and that it makes no sense to talk about it at all. And then you wonder if the Slovenian public, and especially the people who are deprived, have no rights anymore, who belong in the poor people's class, that they don't believe you anymore. That's why I think it would be good for you to vote to come to a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Member Mitja Slavinec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u159	Thank you so much for saying that. Let us ask ourselves why we need to discuss this today and why there have been so many words for and against. Of course, I also do not intend to support the proposal of the parent working body, and I think that the law is suitable for further consideration and we will then accept it or not; not to stop it at the start. We heard if I came back to the first question. Many of you have referred to many mistakes in the past. I agree, the mistake was, as you have always interpreted it, that not all the Slovenian economy was sold out to foreigners. At that time, there would be more tobacco factories, such as, say, other transition countries, but I am glad that these errors did not happen because they would be the mistakes of our economy and our country and would be good for foreign buyers and investors. For this reason, I believe that this sale was also wrong. Maybe it wasn't at the right time, maybe good companies aren't worth selling, not the ones that make profits at all. If we have already sold, then this purchase should be invested in even better companies that would generate even more profits. The main question is whether the case was sold well as good companies were supposed to be selling; and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] maybe all the purchases didn't go into the budget transparently. [[...]] Now we could hear that part of the purchase will be reinvested, but look, because then it's still the property of those who bought cheap. That is why such harmful sales should be avoided in the future. That is why I would also like this law to be further discussed, and I will also vote on it myself. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] As a result, I call on you to support or reject the proposal of your mother's working body and to support further consideration of this law. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? Good. We therefore vote on the proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending the Act on the takeover and settlement of the obligations of the Slovenian ironworks in relation to the restructuring programme is not suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 25. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. However, we continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Traffic Safety in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Safety Act is suitable for further consideration." I am opening the procedure for explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. The word is "Bostian Zagorac." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u161	Thank you for your word, Madam President. We will not support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party. We will not support it, for the first time, because the law does not regulate the integrated problems of road safety, we will not support it for the reason that the law itself and the regulation of fines, as provided for by law, are too many anomalies for individual infringements of road traffic regulations. We will not support it either because we believe that neither the Government of the Republic of Slovenia nor this National Assembly have done enough to say: we have tried everything in the field of prevention to prevent these disasters. Only now that we have really tried everything and because the trend has not fallen will we go in the field of repression. This is also one of the reasons why we will not support the marriage. Someone said in today's debate, "Let's ask those who are called to arrange this area!" Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are called upon to accept or reject this; we are called or we have the power to make this law better or leave it bad, so do not call for the help of someone else because it will not help us. We're the one. Among other things, the law provides for such anomalies as, say, increased penalties in the case of 10 kilometres of speeding in the village, no penalties or sanctions or some serious intention of the Government to regulate so-called drivers in the opposite direction. Such anomalies occur in this law, so the law is incomplete, is an awkward attempt by this government to address one very burning topic. And as we have heard, the law, as proposed, solves the matter on short notice. In the Slovenian National Party, we always advocate that the law resolves a matter in a comprehensive and long time, not for a short period of time. And for information to everyone else, I'm either supernaturally happy or unnaturally happy to leave today when we're done voting from this room, but I'm not gonna be supernaturally or unnaturally red either out of shame or out of anything else when I leave this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u162	Thank you very much. And I give the word to Ambassador Aleš Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u163	Honourable Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that the objectives set by the legislator will not be achieved in this way. As a result, we will not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act, but we do not think it is suitable for further consideration. The main reason is that the first objective of reducing the number of traffic accidents with the worst consequences of increased penalties, which are so far clearly comparable to many European countries, will not be achieved. The second objective was to ensure that the additions to the law would have immediate, immediate and visible effects on the state of security. This, of course, can be achieved at the moment without a change of law by police going on the road and doing their job and by cancelling a 50% discount that only serves to fill the state budget. These two would be sufficient to have visible and immediate effects, and for long-term effects all that you have heard in the debate today, and especially that the law would not only be written by the police hand, but also by other hands. So people from the Ministry of Transport, people from health, education and so on. At that time, we will be able to talk about a wise marriage, and we will be happy to support it. Just whipping people - not that!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 13. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. The proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Transport Committee as its parent labour body for a second reading. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Protocol Ratification Law on the Prohibition of the Use of Perishable, Torrid or Other Gases and Bacteriological Ways of Combating. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer, who also submitted a written report to the National Assembly. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to submit an amendment in the third reading of the amendments. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 65 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we're moving on to 20. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT RATIFIATION LEGISLATION Member of the Convention on the Prohibition or Restriction on the Use of Certain Types of Classic Weapons, for which it may be counted, to have transboundary traumatic effects or to act equally in relation to the objectives. The draft law was also submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly. This time, too, the draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. And since no amendments were adopted at the meeting of the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled in the third reading of the amendments. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, for 62, for 1. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on with the 21st. Point-to-point proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. This time, too, there are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to submit an amendment in the third reading of the amendments. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present for 46, against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 22. Period of the day - on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Insensible Cultural Heritage. The draft law was also submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly. The proposal for a law treats the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. You received the report in writing. There are no applicants for the debate, and this time no amendments have been adopted by the home labour force as part of the second reading of the draft law. In the third reading of the amendments, it is not possible to submit and therefore not accept, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 64 Members present and 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. And we're moving on to 23. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Establishment of a European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETSAT), Amending Protocol - Amendments to the Convention establishing a European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites of 24. In May 1983, the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities of the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites, the amendment of the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities of the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites and the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites in connection with the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the Convention establishing a European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites and associated conditions. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. The draft law was also considered this time by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent labour force, which also reported in writing to the National Assembly. There is no application for discussion. This time, too, no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the second reading, so we cannot make or adopt amendments at this stage, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. We're voting. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Patient Rights, the regular procedure. On Monday, 17 December of this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the Assembly decided, on a proposal from the proposer of the law, i.e. the Government, that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a third consideration of the draft law would be held at that meeting. We are moving on to a debate on one amendment tabled and signed by four members of Parliament, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners, which refers to paragraph 43. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Then we can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 11. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I also inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendment adopted, the bill would not be harmonised, so we can move on to a full decision on the bill. I am opening a procedure to declare explanations of vote before the vote on behalf of the groups of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. An explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group will be given by Ambassador Majda Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u165	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In the New Slovenia Group we will support the law on patient rights. We believe that the law is good to answer questions from the field of patient rights. The motioner claimed that he had mainly taken into account the proposals of non-governmental organisations when drafting the law. We believe the proposer, and we would like to point out once again that we are aware that individuals, groups, societies, the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman have done much in the field of patient rights and we give them all recognition. The Law on Patient Rights pursues three objectives. The first objective is to ensure that the number of complaints and costs are reduced in the long term. The second objective is that it very clearly defines the rights of patients, then the procedure for the exercise of rights, and the effective resolution of infringements, while defining an important role for the representative. In this regard, it is worth noting that the applicant has placed in the law himself a representative as the Chief Ombudsman of the patient's rights and has not decided on the proposal of the current Ombudsman for the effective guardian of human rights. The law, however, gives the agent, in addition to the role of advising, assisting and representing the patient, a broader role in the field of prevention, promotion and control. An important role is also played by the law to the current Ombudsman by monitoring the situation in the field of the exercise of patients' rights within the framework of its powers, calling on the State authorities and on the municipalities and public authorities to create conditions and conditions for the effective functioning of this law. And the third objective pursued by the law is to act in the area of peaceful settlement of disputes, which also means less pressure on the courts. As we say, our parliamentary group will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u166	Thank you very much. My colleague, Bojan Kontic, will present the SD members' vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You probably do not expect the opposition parliamentary group after you have rejected the amendments of the opposition parliamentary groups to support the bill that is proposed, which is inadequate, which is weak, which is weak, which does not regulate patients' rights. Mr Jerovšek, I think for the tenth time in this term I ask you not to speak when someone else speaks. It's a bad marriage. The bill is so bad that even the Ministry had to take a month to prepare amendments in the form of responses to the Legislative and Legal Service. The applicant covered the civil society's will, including the excuse that there was a society in the establishment, is said to have not yet been established, in the establishment in order to oppose the law on patients' rights. A cynicism I don't know how to compare. How cynical this is for patients, this claim alone speaks. So you didn't accept the amendments to the opposition. These amendments tried to change the concept of the law, and unfortunately this failed. So, the law is not intended to protect patients' rights, the law is not intended to protect patients, and as long as we are healthy as long as we are not patients, we can probably also bevoluntary to matters proposed by the Government. When people get sick when they become patients, when they become patients and when they seek their rights, they will find that this law does not regulate their rights - that all rights are not regulated in one law and that it will be very difficult to follow all laws in the exercise of their rights. Since the law has not fully regulated a free complaint, the patient is ultimately a patient if he has not rightly complained [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] or find that it is not justified, it bears part of its costs. [[...]] Since there is no guardian of the patient's rights, and there are other solutions that are not appropriate, not to speak of the impartiality of the commission, of the excessive number, of how it is, if someone is setting up a commission that is paid by means that are then decided [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We have a case of a commission deciding who is entitled to medical treatment and who is not, and we know that people, patients, patients are not satisfied with it. [[...]] There are more reasons not to support this law [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u169	Thank you very much for the words, dear colleagues and colleagues, as many of you remain in this Chamber! In fact, we have been very skeptical of the proposed law from the beginning in the Slovenian National Party. Because it has not already followed what was promised on the basis of the draft law; because of the total confusion of the proceedings on the working body, this bill has been amended almost entirely by amendments, more than 2/3 of the articles have been amended: because there was total confusion during the process, such confusion that even the coalition MP ordered how to vote or what instructions should be given by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health; because this government coalition overcame all the warnings, a large number of very correct, good, quality amendments prepared by the opposition; because this government coalition has overheard the warnings of civil initiatives, non-governmental organisations, therefore I cannot accept the words issued at the outset by the representative of New Slovenia that the law is in line with non-governmental organisations. She blindly believes - not the Minister, the Minister, nor has it been the case in dealing with the law on the labour force, but the Secretary of State who said that for two million Slovenians and Slovenians, rights will be raised in one place. The path to enforcement will be easier, easier. I say that this is not the case, my respectable colleagues and colleagues. We still have collected rights in different places, in different laws - you didn't want to collect all rights in one place. We still have the law - specifically when we talk about a complaint before a commission that introduces some kind of elitism: not everyone will be able to pay the appeal! Unfortunately, well-respected colleagues and colleagues, also representatives are not a good solution. They're not a good solution! With this bill not only did you oppose the opposition, civil society, including professionals, the expert pointed out the bad, non-consistent solutions you are committing. We will not vote for or against the law in the Slovenian National Party. However, I warn you, my fellow Members and colleagues, that the signing of the subsequent legislative referendum by a civil initiative, a civil initiative with which the law is to be coordinated, is already being prepared. From this place I also predict obstruction of voting by the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u170	Thank you. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At the LDS, we cannot support the text of the law on patient rights. The reason is in a few points, which I just want to briefly list. First of all, the law does not define patients' rights in one place. We will still have a duality, in a way where health insurance rights, whose procedures go into hundreds of thousands, will be regulated by another law. Of course, this will not be possible to ensure the exercise of patients’ rights. Second reason, role and importance of NGOs. NGOs have warned the proposer, the Slovenian public, us, Members and Members that they were not involved in the drafting of the text of this law. That's what they're warning us about right now. We have had the opportunity to recognise the role of both the proposer and the MPs in the promotion of non-governmental organisations, and not in informing patients' rights, we have removed this from the law! Next reason. At the second stage of the complaint, the Commission is far too broad, bureaucratic, financially demanding and not effective for us. The applicant did not wish to take into account the rationalisations and procedures in the second stage of the complaint. Third reason. You removed the concept of a security complication from the law with amendments, denying what you wrote on the ground that you wanted to achieve the highest level of patient safety protection by implementing the safety complication and investigating in the event of a suspected safety complication. That's what you drew. You've crossed, you don't recognize a medical error in this law! In this way, you have denied Article 2, which says that you want to have a high level of trust between the patient and the healthcare staff. It's not in the marriage anymore! Instead of investigating an alleged safety complication, there is an unexpected event which suggests that events not related to the disease may occur during the treatment phase. You've deleted this very important article. In doing so, you have introduced internal control, and in your explanation, you yourself say that you want to separate these two procedures with an investigation into the safety complication. Therefore, there is no way in the House of Members that we can understand that this law works. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] patients and by no means can we give support to this law. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u172	Thank you, too. However, Member Ivan Grill has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will be happy to support this law and I am sure that today is extremely important for all our patients and patients, because this law is really intended primarily for them or exclusively for them, and our patients and patients will also benefit from it. This law allows free assistance and participation of representatives who will be all those who feel that they are being wronged, that they will be helped to guide them and that they will be able to seek the level of services that our health system allows. It will also be possible for all those who are socially disadvantaged to be fully allowed free of charge on a second-degree committee, even if a party has an unjustified complaint. This law is fully, we can say, fully aligned with the Ombudsman's Institute. Both the former Ombudsman and the current Lady of the Ombudsman have also fully upheld such solutions contained in this law. And this law follows their desires. The solutions or concept of work that are in this law practically sum up the way the Ombudsman works from Maribor, and these are the solutions that have proved to be good, and it is also right that this solution continues in this law. This law is also practically made in a way that can function in practice as soon as it is adopted, meaning that we will have a representative of the patient's rights in every health institution, but if we are able to establish the provinces with sufficient political will, every province will be able to play this role, and the representatives will then be in the provincial seats. But I would like to point out once again that this law is good, and it surprises me that it is on the side [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The opposition is now trying to criticise this law in such an unjustified way. [[...]] All those solutions that this law has had - it was submitted by one of the opposition parties a good year ago and then they defended such solutions, and now they categorically reject them and try to reverse them as if these solutions were bad. This is a duality, and I think it is wrong that this law is now trying to be unduly criticized here. Once again, this marriage is fine, and we will be happy to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u174	My friend Grill, thank you very much. On behalf of Members and Members, I apologize that they were so loud during your debate. I ask all present Members to occupy their seats. As long as you continue to do what you have done for the last five minutes and discuss outside the legislative procedure, I will be forced to suspend the meeting. Comrade Bajc, proposal after termination? Can we move on to a decision? We can't. I am opening a procedure for the declaration of reasons to the vote on my own behalf. Here you go. Member Franz Jazbec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I consider that this is one of the better laws adopted by this Parliament. That is precisely why there are so many reflections and so many insults and so many things at the expense of this law over the last six months we have actually experienced and I think that the law needs to be supported. I am surprised, however, that someone can say so many non-truths in both debates and today's explanations at the expense of the adoption of this law, at the expense of disregarding the comments of civil society and all those interested in this law. It is especially strange that this is done by people who have not been involved in the adoption of this law and who here give much reason for things that are not justified and are not real. I will support the bill myself, and so will I propose to the others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u176	Thank you very much. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This law cannot be supported, for its concept has been so bound from the beginning that our well-intentioned and truly good amendments have not been able to improve it, so I cannot regret that our amendments have not been adopted, for then it is clear who is responsible for the bad law. Indeed, the coalition has been unable, or has lost its luck, to any project it undertakes, somehow in the end, to succeed. Even when a new innovative approach could bring about a general useful thing, as in this law, something, something that should be welcomed by the nature of things, even this time obviously did not succeed, due to the non-professional approach, the rejection of well-intentioned comments and proposals and the arrogance and superiority that only she knows what is right and what is wrong. Unfortunately, patients will also have to continue to wander from Pontius to Pilate under this law in order to exercise their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The consistency of this law in the second reading was demonstrated by amendments. The amendments were so great that we actually wrote the other amendments a new law. We have done this within three weeks, and this is in a way that we have done the solutions of the bill's proposal to supplement the law as black and white. If we had a security complication investigation earlier, we now have an internal surveillance investigation. This is a fundamental difference in content and a completely different right given to the patient. Another time. We have made professional representations unprofessional, without justification, without reasoning on the basis of some estimates that we cannot explain to the Slovenian public today, speaking of hundreds and hundreds of thousands of cases where patients' rights have been violated on the basis of health insurance. And we continued in a way that we do not recognize the role of NGOs. We were not prepared to acknowledge these roles either in the preparation phase of this law or in the preparation phase, nor were we prepared to listen to the proposals of NGOs that would like to participate in the promotion and information of Slovenian patients, i.e. the users of health services, what their rights are, and we have become very aware of all their good work within the various societies of individual diseases, which are doing a very important job of improving the quality of the health system in Slovenia. And on the basis of such arguments, which cannot be spelled out precisely in this explanation of vote as it was possible to defend them in the Committee's 10-hour hearing, of course it is impossible to agree that the State Secretary's word that the law was written definitively, so the amendment of this law was all about the fact that it is just the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u180	Thank you very much. However, Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u181	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I'll be brief because people outside have rights, too. But the patient's rights are too important a topic to be removed with your left hand. We and then supported the fact that the law was going to be dealt with, especially because we thought that we would be able to make a difference, although it was clear at the time that the marriage was very, very bad. This has also proved to be true during the entire debate. Of the 97 articles or as many as there are, 94 are amended in different ways to still place the patient in the center of this circle. But in the center of this cycle, the health system remained, or even doctors themselves, who contributed greatly to the text of this law. It's a very bad marriage, a marriage that doesn't save the darkness it's meant for. And, of course, if they limit the current rights of patients who are individual instead of bringing them together and spreading them, then I cannot vote for them. The only gain is a new thing we don't know yet, these are complaints, so we'll have to pay something again. However, none of the advice given by patients' societies, NGOs and so on, which, after all, is already threatened by a referendum if this law is adopted, has been followed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Member Alenka Jeraj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. For this bad law, which we did not get lucky with, according to our colleague, 60 Members voted in the first or general hearing. This is quite a lot and rare laws get such support in this House. Then we have so much bad will on the part of the opposition regarding the law that a person might get the wrong feeling that today is a very good situation, because now that we don’t have the law, when we have it, it will be very bad or if it isn’t just catastrophic. I think the law brings a lot of good. Indeed, we have not been able to unify ourselves on the basic concept of whether we should have one guardian of the patient's rights, one in the country, or 14 representatives throughout the country, and thus come closer to the patients. While the Ombudsman’s Institute is already doing quite a good part of these tasks, it is also concerned about patients’ rights. I will support the law myself because I am confident that this will also improve this area and enable better protection and exercise of the rights of the patient. Of course, as with all things, there is more to be done here when we can see the results.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 21. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We move on to the interrupted 1st item, that is to the question of Members and Members of Parliament. In line with the proposal by Mr Zmaj Jelinčič Trimenite, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the parliamentary question of Mr Zmog Jelinčič Trimenite, on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia on unilateral moves by neighbouring countries. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 43. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Mitje Slavinca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question by Dr Mitje Slavinac on the conditions for achieving the results of the knowledge of our students and students. Comrade Slavinec, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u185	Thank you very much. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] [[...]] It may be funny, but it's serious. Yesterday, I asked Mr Janez Janša about investments in education, and asked him whether the school toll would continue with the school euro. I gave quite a few concrete information on how investment in education was in the past, 4.1% of GDP in 1995, and by 2005 it had grown to 4.8, and now, according to the new budget plan, it will fall back to 4.3, so we are going back almost 15 years. The Prime Minister then served with misleading data, where he cited cumulatively different investments with significantly different figures, and this is already one of the reasons why a broader discussion on this topic is valid. A more important reason is for sure that education, education, is so important that we must not neglect it in any way that we have to give it adequate resources, appropriate means. Mr. President, can you hear me? Therefore, we must give him adequate resources, adequate importance and be aware that if we neglect education, if not only at organisational level, but also at financial level, what is necessary, then Slovenia will by no means be a country based on knowledge, not on knowledge-based knowledge-based state and society, but something based on competitive advantage of cheap labour and similar matters. I am sure that no one in this Chamber wants that, because of this, at least I can count on your support in my proposal to discuss this subject and try to find solutions that will be both acceptable to the Government and to citizens and especially to the learning youth in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 41. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has not been adopted. In line with the proposal by Mr Sam Bekov, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy of Mags. Mr Andrej Visiak asked his colleague Sam Bevek about the sale, transfer and disposal of state-owned property. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 41. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mrs Zvetka Zalokar Orazem, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Zofija Mazej Kukovič to the question of the Member of the colleague Cvetka Zalokar Orazem regarding the invitation to purchase equipment for the new building of the neurological clinic. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 41. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. And last time, for the fifth time, according to the proposal of Mr Srečko Friends, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Janez Sponik, to the question of Mr Friend of Parliament on environmental issues. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. It was 15 votes against 41. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I also conclude this item on the agenda. I also conclude the 34th meeting of the National Assembly. Before leaving the room, I will ask you or inform you that you already know that you are taking all the bench materials out of the hall for the preparation of the hall for tomorrow's activities regarding the visit of the European Parliament delegation to the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, I invite you to meet me in the lobby of the National Assembly in five minutes to join us in toasting the coming year.
