ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 26th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Milan M. Cwickl, Mr Ljubo Germić from 3 p.m. on, Mr Matjaž Han from 2 p.m. on, Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar from 12.30 p.m. to 3 p.m., Mr. Willi Rezman, mag. Anton Rop, Mr Aloise Sok, Mr Villa Trofenik by 2 p.m. and mag. Franz Gniedarsich. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Second defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the Court of Justice. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Please, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Dear Members and honourable Members! You have before you the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law to the Registry of Justice. Amendments to the Judicial Register Act are necessary for several reasons. Firstly, compliance with the first publicity directive, including the requirements of this Directive on electronic access to statutes and social contracts and on the electronic submission of requests for entry into the register. Secondly, compliance with the company law. Thirdly, updates and rationalisation of the way in which the registration is published in the Registry of the Court of Justice, in order to reduce costs and reduce the time between the registration and publication of the Register of Justice, as the entries in the Registry of the Court of Justice in relation to third parties shall only take effect by publication of the entry. Fourthly, the simultaneous entries in the Court and Business Register and the rationalisation of transactions related to these entries, as the data relating to the individual entity of the registration are entered in the Court Register by law on the Court Registry and the Business Register by law on the Business Register. Initially, we explain that the proposed amendment to the Law on the Court Register does not constitute an exclusion from the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice, since the decision on the registration of data in the Court Register remains the jurisdiction of the District Courts. The Novelo merely regulates the distinction between the management of the Court Registry, which is carried out by the District Court, and the management of the Court Registry, which is the responsibility of the Agency for Public Records and Services as the administrator of the Business Register. The management of the Court Registry shall mean the recording of the data in the main book of the Court Registry on the basis of the decisions of the Court and the maintenance and management of the centralised database of the Court Registry as an integral part of the Business Register. Most of the data entered in the court register is also entered in the business register under the Business Register Act. The data to be entered in the Registry and the data to be entered in the Business Register are therefore largely covered. For this reason, the databases of the Court and Business Register will be merged into one computerised database in the future, so that the Court Register becomes an integral part of the Business Register database. The novel will thus create a legal basis for the inclusion of the Court Registry in the Business Register. The proposed novel will achieve other objectives. First time. Electronic commerce will be introduced, allowing for electronic submission of applications for registration, electronic document submission, electronic submission of requests for extracts from the Court Registry and the management of the main book and the collection of documents in electronic form. The amendment further specifies which applications for registration in the Registry must be submitted in electronic form and who, on behalf of the Applicant, submits an application for registration in the Register of Justice in electronic form. If you don't mind, I'd like to give you a brief explanation. Proposals which are subject to entries relating to limited liability companies and which are based on prescribed forms will be submitted through point VEM - "all in one place". Other proposals relating to limited liability companies will be submitted or will be submitted under VEM or notary. However, applications for entries relating to other entities, i.e. entities other than limited liability companies, will be submitted by notaries. The VEM entry points will be: exhibitions of the JAPES, administrative units and local offices, entry points of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and regional chambers of commerce, entry points of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and regional chambers of commerce, tax offices of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, also the entry points of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment and, of course, local business centres. This ensures a very wide-ranging VEM network of points and thus makes their services more accessible and accessible. A further important change is that compliance has been made with the Company 1 Act, the most important provision being that an individual is no longer included in the Court Register. It is simpler and faster to publish the entries in the Register of Courts, as the new publication of entries in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia replaces the publication of these entries on the public websites of the IAPES, which will significantly reduce the costs of publishing and allow the entry to be published at the same time as it has been made. It is also very important to abolish the payment of court fees in the context of the rationalisation of business and the promotion of entrepreneurship. In practice, however, transitional provisions are also relevant - Article 32 and in particular Article 33 of the proposal for a law governing the transition to the euro, which provides that, if a limited liability company fails to amend the act establishing or the social contract due to the transition to the euro by 31 December 2007, it is deemed to be modified in the part relating to the core capital and the shareholdings, so that these amounts from the tolars are converted into euro by the upgraded method of conversion under the company law. The Agency, i.e. the JAPES, will perform its official duties by 31 January 2005.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Marolt. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the Chairman of this Committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u4	Thank you. Nice greetings to the representatives of the ministry, colleagues, fellow Members, our guests who accompany us! At its 31st meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register. The law was submitted to the legislative procedure by the Government. At the meeting itself, the representative of the proposer gave a detailed explanation of the article of the draft law in which he presented the main objectives of the bill and said that the amendment was necessary in order to comply with the first publicity directive, with regard to the requirement of this Directive on electronic access to statutes and social contracts and on electronic submission of requests to the Registry, and, on the other hand, the novelty also brings the simultaneousity of the entries in the Court and Business Register and thus brings the necessary rationalisation of the way in which the records are published in the Registry. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, who said that some of the comments of this service were taken into account both in the amendments of the applicants and, on the other hand, they were also answered in the form of a comprehensive and satisfactory explanation by the proposer. In particular, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service made a general comment on the transitional and final provisions contained in the written opinion of this service. The members of the committee did not discuss the bill itself extensively, but amendments to the bill were tabled by coalition groups, which were also adopted. The Committee further adopted all the articles of the law and proposes them to be adopted by this respected assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u6	Dear President! Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! Respectable viewers and viewers in front of TV screens! I give the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. The new law on the Registry refers to a number of changes that will contribute to a more modern legal regime and to the rational functioning of the registration entity of the Registry Court and the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Records and Services. It is therefore a welcome change that will contribute to a more efficient and simpler registration procedure or the registration of entities in the Registry. In particular, the final alignment of the law under consideration with the so-called first publicity directive is welcome. The first amendment of the law was not in line with this Directive in the work relating to electronic commerce. In modern times, electronic regulation of matters, of course, means simpler, more transparent and, above all, cheaper procedures. However, from the point of view of public information, electronic access to statutes and social contracts is important. In the SLS Group, we see a number of advantages in these solutions, as e-review can allow for more efficient and affordable verification of statutes and social contracts by stakeholders. The other amendments relate to compliance with other laws already adopted and follow the reduction of registration procedures in the Court Register. The changes are therefore positive and there is no reason why they would not be supported in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! Also welcome visitors to the gallery. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Court Register is intended to bring what Mr Virant and this government has been somehow committed to since the beginning of this mandate, is meant to rationalise public administration and facilitate access to data. Thus, to make public administration closer and more accessible to all people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Unlike previous laws, where this rationalisation has been more or less hidden or has not been based or focused on the objective for which the government advocates, this law is about genuinely facilitating certain procedures, so we will support it in the Slovenian National Party. However, one question to the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not going to work without it. Financial implications. The law explains that the law will have a financial impact of EUR 960,000 or maybe up to a million. I would like to know which resources or whether these funds are already provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia or from which resources are provided. As for the law itself, as I said in the introduction, we support it in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u9	Thank you very much. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Willi Rezman has the floor. Please. Excuse me, excuse me, Mr. Ivan Yelen.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary in the Ministry of Justice! In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law of the Registry, and we will also support it. The proposed novel will achieve a number of objectives that we support, allowing for the electronic submission of applications for registration, e-investment of documents, electronic submission of requests for extracts from the Court Registry, and the management of the main book and from the collection of documents in electronic form, which undoubtedly contributes to the rationalisation of the management of the Court Registry, the registries. The amendments provide for simpler and faster publication of entries in the Court Register. The publication of entries in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia is replaced by the publication and entries on the websites of the Slovenian Public Records Agency. We support such an update by DeSUS Members, because we are confident that the proposed regulation will no longer lead to delays such as so far, since the novel allows for the entry to be published at the same time as it has been done, and such an arrangement allows for the reduction of the costs of postings currently borne by registration entities. The proposal certainly contributes to a more business-friendly environment in our country. In order to avoid duplication of the management of certain data in different registers, we agree in our parliamentary group with the provisions allowing the Court's registry to be included in the business register. In this way, both bases will be merged into one computerised database in which the main book of the Registry will be computerised, an integral part of the core database of the Business Register. Members of the DeSUS fully support any rationalisation of the business and promotion of entrepreneurship, as well as measures to ensure a more user-friendly administration. Even though we fully agree with the content of the novel, which we will also support, it is our duty to point out to the applicant, otherwise only to procedural items, the amendment of other laws that are not under consideration. Such an approach, which was taken in the framework of the proposal under consideration, certainly introduces uncertainty and lack of transparency in Slovenia's legal order. That is how we appeal to the proposers to intervene as little as possible in other laws in the future in this way. Otherwise, as has already been said in the beginning, our proposed law group fully supports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitrij Kovacic has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u12	Mr Vice President, colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register. Modern times require modern business in all areas. Also in the field of records maintained in the Court Registry, where electronic submission of applications and documents is introduced, it is also introduced in electronic form only by the management of the main book and the collection of documents. The system of the Registry will thus be simplified and significantly easier to reach for users of this registry. We also welcome the amendment replacing the previous publication of entries in the Official Journal by publishing on the public websites of the Slovenian Agency for Public Records and Services. In addition to simplifying and expediting the entry and recording, the new law we are considering also reduces the costs for entrepreneurs, which is particularly supported by members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, since red tape in this area has been too much for economic operators. Therefore, it seems appropriate that independent entrepreneurs no longer register under this law. However, any other entities that continue to have an obligation to record status changes and status data in the Registry will save some savings due to the abolition of court fees in this area. Additional rationality is also a merger of the judicial and business register into one information base. As the law under consideration introduces changes in the operation of the Registry of Justice, while the courts retain in the future the powers to decide on individual entries, with these amendments only making business simpler, faster and more economical persons more friendly and cheaper, we will also support the proposed law of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolina, on behalf of the NSI Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u14	Thank you very much again. The Registry shall contain information on companies, both owners, activities, persons responsible and partly on their business. All data in the Registry shall be public and may be reviewed and requested to be issued with a certified extract from this Register. Sometimes we are not aware of how important this book is, how important this base is, not only for individuals, companies, companies that do business for another person, but also for those who are looking for it, to make a working relationship between individual companies. The amendments to the law before us are necessary in order to comply with European Union legislation, but these changes also have positive effects in our internal regulation. It is also a matter of compliance with the Company Act and of adapting the Court's register to electronic commerce. It is important that the law makes it easier for economic operators to enter into the register. Above all, it also brings greater accuracy and transparency and up-to-date data. Since the data have been duplicative in the Court and Business Register, it is certainly more appropriate now for the Registry and the Business Register to be merged into a single information base in the future. Electronic commerce is being introduced, i.e. applications for entry and requests for exit will be submitted electronically at points I know. In New Slovenia, we are pleased when individuals, people know about this very positively, especially we can say that points I know very much. However, notaries will make proposals for some other entries. In addition to the main book, a collection of documents in electronic form will be maintained. The publication of entries in the Official Journal shall be replaced by the publication of entries on the websites of the Agency for Public Services and Records. The entry will be published at the same time as it will be completed. This reduces the cost of publishing in the Official Journal to economic operators, while at the same time aligning this with the first publicity directive. In the opinion of New Slovenia, another important incentive is being put in place for entrepreneurship, namely the abolition of judicial fees in the registration procedure. In Novi Slovenija we will support the proposed amendment of the law because we believe that this is another step forward towards ensuring a better entrepreneurial environment as well as a more user-friendly administration and a wider economic environment in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we will vote on the law on Friday, 30 March 2007, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the bond law. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for further explanation of the law. Here you are, Mr. Robert Marolt, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! You have before you a bill amending and supplementing the bond code. This is a significant change in the current provision of the Code, which lays down the rule that interest ceases to flow when the sum of interest and interest not paid reaches the principal only for the contractual interest. The current provision of Article 376 of the Bond Code provides that interest shall cease to flow when the sum of interest due and interest unpaid reaches the principal. This rule now applies to both late and contractual interest and, consequently, may lead to a situation that encourages the debtor to default on his or her liability to the creditor, as late interest ends after a certain period of time. The consideration of the bill must be based on the basic function of late interest, which is that the debtor who fails to fulfil his obligations in due time is compelled to fulfil his obligation as soon as possible. If the debtor is late in fulfilling the monetary obligation, he owes in addition to the principal late interest. In order for late interest to be able to perform its preventive function effectively, the legal arrangements must be such that the debtor is not to be paid late. In the event of a delay in fulfilling the monetary obligation, irrespective of the reason for the delay, it is an unjustified use of foreign money and it is therefore necessary to follow the objective that the function of late interest is also to prevent this unjustified use and thus to ensure payment discipline. I will give you a brief overview of the reasons that have affected the decision to amend the bond code in this part. First time. The creditor, when the sum of the interest due is unpaid, loses the right to late interest for the period of the debtor’s delay after the day the interest reaches the principal. It is more likely that this effect will occur only because of the duration of the proceedings than is the case. It is true that the guardian for such a situation is provided for in the second paragraph of Article 380 of the Bond Code, under which the creditor has the right to a distinction between full compensation. However, the creditor does not know how long the judicial or enforcement proceedings will take, and how to formulate his claim for compensation at the average interest rate. Second reason. Within the European Union, we are facing this problem more broadly. Part of this area is regulated by the directive on combating late payments in commercial transactions. It follows from the introductory provisions of the Directive that excessive delays in payments of obligations and consequently excessive financial and administrative burdens, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, are a problem for the whole of the European Union. In view of the content of the preamble and of the directive itself, it can even be argued that the provisions of Article 376 of the Bond Code on the cessation of late interest are even contrary to this Directive. In this context, it is also necessary to compare our legal arrangements with that of the other members of the European Union, which do not have such provisions as the current 376th Article of the Bond Code. Finally, it follows from the explanation of the Constitutional Court’s decision, which tested the conformity of Article 376 of the Bond Code in the constitutional procedure, that the question of the regulation of late interest should be examined in the field of the legislator’s free judgment, so that the creditor is guaranteed the duration of the late interest. The general "vacatio legis" is proposed for the implementation of the bill, which is on the 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal. However, within the meaning of the Constitutional Court decision partially repealing Article 1060 of the Bond Code, it is the only constitutional and legal thing to apply to all existing obligations. On the grounds of that decision, it is clear that the Constitutional Court has decided that the timing of the formation of the bond relationship is not reasonable and that there is a real reason for the distinction between debtors and has therefore placed them in the same position as regards the cessation of late interest. The same should apply to creditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the Chairman of this Committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u18	At its 31st session, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice also considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the bond code. The representative of the proposer provided an additional explanation to the article of the draft law, in which he stressed in particular that there was a significant change in the current provision and also provided additional reasons for the adoption of the amendment of the law. A representative of the Legislative and Legal Service also took part in the meeting, who presented the comments of this service and, above all, highlighted the question of the entry into force of this Act because he felt that the service seemed somewhat undecided. However, the representative of the proposer explained that in practice they did not expect problems with the proposed provision, since this amendment was also fully aligned with the Supreme Court, which in the past year, following a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of Article 376 of the Bond Code, also gave the Ministry an initiative to amend this Article. He also pointed out that this is a matter of judicial decisions for which the Supreme Court is competent in all court proceedings in accordance with the applicable Article 109 of the Courts Act. We have also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on the political system, and the Committee has adopted all the articles of the bill and is proposing them to be adopted by this assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, again. Nice greetings to all present! In the framework of the bill under consideration, it is only a matter of correcting the editorial error in the provisions of the Bond Code in the course of late interest, and such a proposal is supported by Members of the DeSUS. Despite the fact that there is only one provision of a large-scale basic law, implementation in practice poses an extremely pressing problem. One indicator is the fact that last year the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has already received six requirements for assessing the constitutionality and legality of Article 376 of the Bond Code. The Bond Relations Act, the old law, laid down in Article 401 the rule that interest ceases to flow when the sum of interest due and interest unpaid reaches the principal. The provision was placed in the contract interest section and therefore this rule did not apply to late interest. In the bond code, that rule was placed in a section containing rules applicable both to contracts and to late interest and therefore the rule applied to both types of interest. Such arrangements also, in the opinion of DeSUS Members, lead to a situation which encourages the debtor to default his obligation to the creditor as late interest stops running after a certain period of time. Of course, at what time this happens, it depends on the interest rate. However, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the bond code proposes that that rule should apply only to contractual interest but not to late interest. The effect of applying the bond code rule is that the creditor loses the right to late interest for the period of the debtor’s delay after the day the interest reaches the principal. It is more likely that this effect will occur only because of the duration of the judicial procedure. If the debtor is late in fulfilling its monetary obligation, there shall be damage to both the creditor and the creditor each day of the debt delay, which shall be at least equal to the yield that could be achieved by a minimum risk investment. Most frequently, it is stressed that late interest on the debtor should be enforced, encouraged to meet obligations in time. In order to be able to effectively perform late interest as a preventive and criminal function, the legal regime must be such that the debtor is not to be late for payment of the obligation. This would be the case when it would be more costly for the debtor to pay late interest than if the potential liquidity difficulties were bridged by the borrowing of liquidity loans. And that is the essence of the novel under consideration. If the debtor is obliged to pay further late interest on the date on which the outstanding interest reaches the principal, the late interest shall cease to lose its preventive function. They allow the debtor to speculate that in the end his total cost will be lower than the cost of borrowing loans due to the delay, the total late interest and the legal costs. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the latter is precisely the reason why the debtor's obligation to pay late interest for the entire period of his delay does not mean disproportionate interference in the debtor's position. The provision is clear and does not allow for a different interpretation, so it is not possible to remedy the institution of authentic interpretation and any other interpretation or application would constitute a breach of the legal rules. Therefore, in our Group of Members, it is essential that the proposed Act amending and supplementing the Bond Code be adopted and also adopted in our Party and in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc, on behalf of the SDS Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the bond law. Despite the short changes, however, we believe that they are necessary and useful, since the current regime, by which they stop running interest when they reach the capital, actually encourages the non-payers. The current regulation also means that the non-payers are, in fact, unjustifiably in need of foreign money for free. And if we know that in the past trials have been proceeding very slowly, with great delays, and that we are still dealing with the removal of these delays, some have consciously exploited such arrangements as to use foreign money for free. Other problems have also arisen under such regulation. There have been pressures to reduce interest rates, write-offs, various compensations and similar things. Of course, this did not contribute to any positive entrepreneurial climate. The debate has also shown that some have doubts that higher late interest will lead to even greater non-payment. Indeed, at first glance, it seems that the weight of these late interest rates will increase. However, if we know in the future that interest will have to be paid, that non-payment will in some way be sanctioned, then in our Group of Members we believe that the debtors will be aware of this and that it will in fact help to reduce this payment non-discipline. Above all, we believe that this new arrangement will be more friendly and fairer to creditors. We will therefore support the proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u24	Thank you very much. With the adoption of the bond code, most of the provisions of the Bond Relations Act have ceased to apply, i.e. the law previously in force. With the implementation of the bond code, the rule of "no ultra-alterum tantum" has come into force again, which stipulates that interest ceases to flow when the sum of the interest due does not reach the principal. This principle was only applicable to the contractual interest under the Bond Relations Act, but Article 401 of the 1989 amendment deleted the provision as its application in the current high inflation situation would make normal payment turnover impossible. Due to the large non-discipline of payments, the legislator adjusted the amount of late interest from the outside, depending on the current economic relationship at the time. The fact is that late interest is and must have a penal function and a remuneration function for the use of money and run from the maturity of the monetary obligation to its payment. The other type of liability still laid down by the Bond Code, i.e. the contractual interest, is the interest agreed upon by the creditor and the debtor contractually and flowing during the period of occurrence of the liability until its maturity. The current regulation now raises a problem because the creditor loses the right to late interest on the debtor's late payment after the day the interest exceeds the principal. In this case, the debtor was thus paid to pay late, as he had not been punished for his non-discipline. Otherwise, there is in Article 380 of the Bond Code of a Trustee who has the right to claim a distinction to full compensation for damage that may have occurred here. However, this is linked, and practice shows that this is true, with long-term judicial and enforcement proceedings. Last year, the Constitutional Court received six requests for an assessment of the constitutionality of Article 376 of the Bond Code. In the opinion of Nova Slovenije, this also points to the burning problem of business with interest in practice. We therefore support the purpose of the law in New Slovenia. Thus, the bill provides that interest shall cease to flow when the sum of interest due and unpaid reaches the principal, only for contractual interest. The proposed amendment to the Code will also apply to the relations that arose before its entry into force, but only those in which late interest has not yet reached the principal and therefore have not ceased to run. This amendment will also be comparable to the regulation in the European Union, with the legal order of the European Union. Too much delays in payment obligations and, as a result, too much financial and administrative burden, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, are not only Slovenia's problem; the problem is the whole European Union; therefore, we really need to work towards better regulation of payment deadlines and also of legal late interest. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed changes to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Drofenik has the floor, on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u26	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished guests! I give an opinion within the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party on the point under consideration. In fact, the Novela of the Bond Code has only one substantive change concerning interest. At first glance, this may be a minor change, but practice shows that this is not the case. The need to amend the provisions governing late and contractual interest is evident both from the explanation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court and from other jurisprudence in the Republic of Slovenia. The Law provides that the contractual interest shall cease to flow when the sum of the interest outstanding reaches the principal. Such a solution is, in our view, reasonable, the contractual interest has a legal basis in the contract, where, in the event that it is agreed, it may be relatively high, since the party which takes a loan or decides any other legal transaction is usually in a subordinate position and must comply with the provisions on the contractual interest. In terms of legal certainty, it is therefore only reasonable to maintain the principle that the outstanding contractual interest should not exceed the principal. However, in the case of late interest, the solution to the interest limit at the principal level would not make sense. If, after a certain period of time, if the late interest had thus reached the principal amount, they had ceased to run, they would in fact have lost their role and purpose, which is to fulfil their obligations as soon as possible. In addition, it should be noted that late interest is regulated and appropriate security of the weaker party is also ensured from this point of view. In the Slovenian People's Party, we assess the proposed amendment and addition to the bond law as appropriate and will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we will vote on the law on Friday, 30 March 2007, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the first stage of the day, this is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Constitutional Court Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Minister Dr. Sturm.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members of the National Assembly. Let me start with an old antique saying: "Tempus fugit, fugit irreparabilile tempus" or ours: "We're running out of time, we're running out of time." This is one of the great contradictions of the democratic rule of law. On the one hand, the right to a fair trial and, on the other hand, the right to a fair trial within a reasonable time. Both of these principles are in a dynamic contradiction, a dynamic conflict. And it is the responsibility of the founder and also the legislator to confront and balance these principles. This issue is crucial in the consideration of today's law, one of the most important laws of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Constitutional Court. However, it is and will also be very important to consider further laws in the field of justice, particularly procedural ones, so it is also right to say a few words at this point in the first place. Yesterday I had a long and exhaustive meeting, an exchange of views with French judges. They have warned me that these dilemmas also arise with them and that the dilemmas between the time needed to take a judicial decision and, while respecting all procedural rules, always and sooner and later appear. It will certainly be necessary to have an in-depth debate in the near future, in my opinion, both in the professional circles and in the National Assembly, because, on the one hand, we have in our legal system a number of procedural provisions and safeguards that protect the parties in the proceedings, which certainly do not contribute to faster development and the conclusion of trials and thus to the adoption of judgments. To begin with, as we move on to the amendment of the law that we have before us, that the Constitutional Court Act was passed in 1994 and this year was certainly a modern law and is certainly a day in its essential work. His acceptance of the poor three years after the 1991 Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was a rise in the level of legal certainty, which meant raising the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and of the values of free democratic democracy in Slovenia, a free democratic society formed at the time of the transition from the former totalitarian system. These acquisitions were further protected by the newly established powers of the Constitutional Court. Notwithstanding the above, legal and political developments in the Republic of Slovenia have led to certain new developments since 1994. Certain legal voids have also been identified in the law in force, and above all the Constitutional Court has begun to become some kind of victim of its own success. This was mainly demonstrated by the continued enormous increase in cases brought before the Constitutional Court, in particular in the field of constitutional complaints. Moreover, constitutional complaints from so-called rich legal areas such as offences, procedural costs and the like. If not, the overburden of the Constitutional Court creates delays in the resolution of other fundamental cases, which are intended to lead to the decision of other courts, determines the right to a trial within a reasonable time period and thereby indirectly threatens legal certainty, as well as economic security and social security. In the event of a systemic and permanent overload of the Constitutional Court, it is no longer able to carry out its constitutional tasks as the highest body for the protection of constitutionality and legality in the Republic of Slovenia, and thus the highest Ombudsman. The already mentioned overload of the Constitutional Court requires a certain legislative functioning of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, it has proved necessary to supplement the Constitutional Court Act in some of its other parts by allowing for a greater level of legal certainty in general, in order to establish clearer rules on the function of the Constitutional Court Judge. For example, in the case where a judge of the Constitutional Court ends his term of office but is not elected in due time by another such judge of the Constitutional Court. Such cases occurred when judges were replaced in the Constitutional Court nine years ago, in 1998. I believe that we all have the ideal of the rule of law and the protection of constitutionality and legality, and we must strive to do so in the field of the functioning or competence of the Constitutional Court to ensure the best possible regulation. If we look at it from a point of view, how to increase the effectiveness of the Constitutional Court's decision, the law provides for certain restrictions on the submission of initiatives to assess the constitutionality of the laws directly applicable, and that is one year after the entry into force of the act or one year after the damage has occurred to the natural or legal person. In view of the suspension of the proceedings by the courts under Article 156 of the Constitution, where the court considers that the provisions of the law which it should apply in its decision are allegedly unconstitutional, the proposal for a law governs a number of situations that will help to increase legal certainty, equality before the law and the effectiveness of judicial and constitutional decision-making. For example, in the case where the Supreme Court considers that the provisions of the law which it should apply in its decision are contrary to the Constitution, the Supreme Court will suspend the proceedings in all cases where it is necessary to apply the contested legal provisions in its decision-making and to initiate a constitutional assessment procedure to assess their constitutionality. It is also one of the most important changes in the current law in terms of the effectiveness of the Constitutional Court to limit the possibility of bringing constitutional complaints in so-called bountiful cases, small-value disputes, under the Law on Justice, the costs of the procedure itself, the interference with property and offences. However, this exception is not absolute. It is added that the Constitutional Court, in particularly justified cases, still decides on a constitutional complaint in favour of the complainants. The draft law also deals in detail with the question of the temporary extension of the term of office of a judge of the Constitutional Court in cases where a new judge or a judge of the Constitutional Court has not been elected in due time. The proposed amendment proposes a drawing system, as is usually the case in certain international organisations or in international courts. The drawdown will be carried out by the Constitutional Court, in the most objective manner in legal cases, by drawing lots, which of the judges of the Constitutional Court will continue to serve because the new judge of the Constitutional Court has not been elected in due time in the National Assembly. There is also an urgent guarantee of the legality and transparency of this procedure, a kind of "external" control, which will be exercised by the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia as the highest official of the legislative branch of the government. This will also safeguard the relationship between the branches of government. The draft law also specifies how quickly or by what procedure the President of the Republic must act if the proposed candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Court has not been elected in the National Assembly and from which group of persons may elect further candidates in such a case. All these amendments to the Constitutional Court Act should, in particular, help the Constitutional Court to abolish, by the end of 2008, the majority of the backlogs in its work resulting from the enormous increase in the number of cases brought before the Constitutional Court, since more people and legal persons were turning to it from year to year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Yelen, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Secretary! Our parliamentary group will certainly support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Constitutional Court Act. The reason for this is simple, namely that the amendments to the law are considered necessary in view of the uniform nature of the new cases before the Constitutional Court, which far exceeds all the enlargements. Data from the 2006 report speak for themselves, for example on 31 December 2006 the Constitutional Court had 87% more cases in work than on the same day a year ago, the number of outstanding cases increased by 116%, of which 85% were from 2006. In addition, we believe that changes are necessary in order to allow a more rational and efficient decision-making process, in particular on matters of constitutional complaints, on the basis of the powers given in the Constitution, since the latter did not benefit from the basic law when it was adopted. Members of the DeDUS, while we believe that a better solution would be to change the Constitution, since it sets out a number of powers of the Constitutional Court, at the top of that, leaving additional new powers to the legal regime, a large number of cases involving disputes concerning jurisdiction between police stations and district courts to decide on the offence. At the same time, the Constitution allows very wide access to the Constitutional Court, since individuals and legal persons are allowed to invest both in constitutional complaints and in constitutional initiatives to initiate a procedure to assess the constitutionality or legality of the rules. We are convinced that the founder did not intend that the Constitutional Court assumes the role of the Ombudsman or that it assumes the role of a second-degree body in cases where neither the legislator considered it appropriate to make an extraordinary case before the Supreme Court. The founder and function of the Constitutional Court itself is intended to be the guardian of the Constitution and the protection of human rights, but it certainly does not change into a ordinary court instance, which, according to the above-mentioned data, we are witnessing today. However, since discussions on possible constitutional changes in this area have not even begun seriously, we consider it necessary to amend the basic law that we have on the table today. We agree with the more precise rules on bringing cases before the Constitutional Court, with the possibility of punishing for the abuse of rights with a more precise definition of legal interest in cases where anti-law rules are challenged, as well as establishing as inadmissible constitutional complaints minor in matters such as disputes of minor value, decisions on costs, disputes over property disturbances and criminal matters. We also consider it appropriate to establish the criteria on the basis of which the Constitutional Court has decided whether or not to adopt a constitutional complaint for consideration, namely, as the first criterion that a violation of human rights has worse consequences for the complainant than the second, that the decision on the constitutional issue raised by the Constitutional Complaint exceeds the importance of the decision in a particular case. In view of the fact that this year's term of office expires for six Constitutional Judges, nine of them, this replacement will also undoubtedly affect the effectiveness of the work of the Constitutional Court. The draft law also solves such complications, as it provides a solution to the dilemma in the event that the three Constitutional Judges have a term of office at the same time and only two are elected in the National Assembly, thus giving an answer to the question which of the three has to carry out their functions under the Constitution until the election of the missing judge and which two have already expired the mandate of the Constitutional Judge. The solutions offered by the proposal for a law are, according to our assessment, appropriate because they provide a high-quality and timely constitutional judgement, and the constitutional judges, which is essential, enable them to carry out their basic mission: quality decision-making on important issues of constitutionality and human rights protection, and therefore we will support the proposed law by DeSUS Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u32	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, everyone watching us. The fact is that the Slovenian Constitutional Court is increasingly overwhelmed by matters that must be dealt with and decided on. The situation is already so alarming that the constitutional right to a trial without undue delay is already under threat in the field of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party support the amendment to the Constitutional Court Act, the main purpose of which is to burden the Constitutional Court by allowing it to exercise the right of the parties to the proceedings before the Constitutional Court to a trial without undue delay. Therefore, the key tendency pursued by law is to rationalise the proceedings before the Constitutional Court. We think it is right that the law itself gives the Constitutional Court the opportunity to deal with certain issues concerning the rules of procedure in more detail with the Rules of Procedure. With the Rules of Procedure, the Constitutional Court may also regulate its organisation and work. In view of some of the unpleasant experiences in the appointment of certain officials proposed by the President of the Republic for the reception of the National Assembly, there is also a very specific procedure in place where the National Assembly of the proposed candidates does not elect a judge of the Constitutional Court, with short deadlines for the President of the Republic to carry out the procedure for new or new nominations. In terms of the more rational functioning of the Constitutional Court, the role of the Secretary-General, who adopts separate decisions in matters that are not within the competence of the Constitutional Court, is also more stressed; in particular, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, I welcome all those provisions of law allowing the court to deal effectively and more quickly with important matters under its jurisdiction. The proposed provisions burden the work of the Constitutional Court, as the conditions for the Constitutional Court to take forward proposals and initiatives for constitutional review, as well as constitutional complaints, are therefore more restrictive than ever. The Constitutional Court has now been very burdened with less important matters, especially in constitutional complaints, so-called bountiful cases, where the minimum value of the disputed case, as well as the issue of property disturbances, procedural costs and offences, is at stake. All these proceedings have placed a heavy burden on the Constitutional Court. Now the Constitutional Court will no longer deal with such proceedings after this law, I hope, has been adopted, unless it comes to a decision on important constitutional and legal issues which go beyond the meaning of a particular case. The decisive criterion for determining whether a constitutional complaint will be accepted or not is, under the proposed law, whether or not a violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms would have a worse effect on the complainant, and the court will also take the constitutional appeal into consideration when it comes to case-by-case decisions. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party welcome the amendment of the law, since it makes the Constitutional Court more effective, prescribes elements for the selection of cases to be taken into consideration, thus burdening a number of cases of lesser importance which do not actually fall within the scope of the Constitutional Opinion. Thus, the amended law will be able to guarantee a constitutionally secured right to a trial without undue delay, which is often because of the already repeatedly mentioned quantitative saturation it is no longer able to provide. Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will also support the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitutional Court Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Ms Lovtišar Bebler has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The fact is that the Constitution itself has given a fairly broad mandate or competence to the Constitutional Court, in particular by introducing a decision on constitutional complaints of violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms with individual acts. At the same time, the Constitution added to the possibility that other powers of the Constitutional Court could also be determined by law. The Constitution also authorised the legislator to designate the motioners before the Constitutional Court and, at the same time, provided that, in the interests expressed by law, anyone may give an initiative to initiate proceedings. The Constitutional Court has had a good purpose today, but all of this has led to a situation where the Constitutional Court has become increasingly overwhelmed by the number of cases that have grown sharply from year to year. The trend of the increase is still new, and it is expected that at the end of this year the Constitutional Court will have as many as 5,000 pending cases, which is a completely abnormal situation and, of course, an alarm sign. Something must therefore be done because it is already quite clear that this cannot be fulfilled one of the main provisions of our Constitution, as well as other fundamental international acts relating to the realization and respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms. This is the right to judicial protection without undue delay and within a reasonable period of time. Justice is, they say, a denial of justice. On the other hand, the current regulation stipulates that all matters within the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court shall be decided at plenary meetings of all nine Judges and Judges, including in matters of constitutional appeals, after it has been decided that the constitutional appeal shall be taken into consideration and that the decision-making procedure shall be initiated. Such an arrangement is just another major reason why the Constitutional Court cannot decide matters more quickly and therefore cannot be more effective, which is clearly what the current and expected situation is. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we support the efforts of the proposed amendment to clear, if I may say so, the circle of possible initiators before the Constitutional Court, as well as the nature or content of the procedure that may be brought before the Constitutional Court, within the limits provided for in the Constitution. All of this, with a view to allowing the Constitutional Court to make a decision more effective and in an abnormal situation with regard to the number of cases as well as the rigidity of the proceedings, would, of course, enable the Constitutional Court to make it possible for the Constitutional Court to take a more rapid decision and thus, of course, also to promote matters of fundamental importance or importance both in assessing compliance with the Constitution, international treaties, the general principles of international law and laws, as well as in the last instance of protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms in the country. Of course, it is not too much to consider the amendment to the Constitutional Court Act, to consider that it would be useful to make changes to the Constitution in those provisions governing the situation, role and competence of the Constitutional Court, taking into account in particular the content of Protocol 14 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Although this has not yet entered into force, it is not yet ratified by the Russian Federation alone, but promises to ratify it eventually. The main objective of Protocol 14 is to relieve the European Court of Human Rights, which is also faced with a huge number of cases and is therefore becoming less effective. Protocol 14 also calls for more and more constitutional complaints of violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms to be concluded in the country where the alleged violation has also occurred. This means that we will have to be particularly careful and sensitive not to have an effective Constitutional Court, citizens and citizens, but individuals and individuals would not have sufficient means to secure their human rights and fundamental freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u36	Dear Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The case-law of the Constitutional Court has increased rapidly over the past ten years. If by 1994 the Constitutional Court had received from 200 to 400 initiatives to initiate the constitutional assessment procedure per year, the number had started to increase significantly since 1994. The caseload was 62% higher in 2006 than in 2005. In three quarters of the cases, these are constitutional complaints, namely, criminal cases first, judicial cases, such as trespassing and the like, criminal cases third and final executions. The current law does not allow decision-making in a reasonable time and the decision-making process on matters is not rational because of the so-called plenary meetings. The reasons for amending the Constitutional Court Act are clear and also justified. Too much of the case may have been compromised in the short term and then even made it impossible for the Constitutional Court to function normally, so it is understandable to require restrictions on the application of constitutional complaints in so-called wealth cases, as has already been mentioned several times today. In the cases in question, it may also be very difficult to find cases where such injustices are such a nature or an intensity to violate the fundamental human rights of the parties. At the same time, we must bear in mind that unlimited opportunities for the exercise of rights can undermine the functioning of the legal system, which prevents the exercise of rights in truly important matters. The proposed arrangements for the temporary extension of the term of office of the Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in cases where a new judge or judges of the Constitutional Court have not been elected in due time are also entirely correct. The lot is also provided for in related legal arrangements. Last but not least, the decision-making effort for the equivalent results is also laid down in the applicable electoral legislation. The rules concerning the operation of the President of the Republic in the event of a failure to elect a candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Court are also reasonable and necessary. The same applies to proceedings concerning the early discharge of a judge of the Constitutional Court. These are technical issues which may be very important from the point of view of the relationship between the authorities, but in view of the content of the proposed changes in the relationship between the branches of government, they do not change, but only fill certain legal gaps which cannot be filled or are very difficult to fill by reasoning. One of the biggest reasons for the backlog of the workload and sometimes the poor quality of the work of the courts and other bodies lies also in the extremely low level of legal culture in our society. Without an appropriate legal culture, there is no effective and just legal system. For this reason, the State has the right and the duty to sanction "uncultural actors", in narrations of course, otherwise there is a situation in which anyone, without any cost implications, can lodge legal remedies, such as constitutional complaints due to the payment order for false parking. Of course, it would be nice if everyone could make use of all the remedies and all the legal channels, but it is important to be aware that all of this must be paid by taxpayers and not only by irresponsible complainants. However, the quality and efficiency of the legal system require very large resources. Therefore, it is also necessary to wait for a long time to decide on matters that are really important legal issues. As a result of this, we will begin to look for reasons for objectively looking at the backlog of the court outside the judiciary. On the other hand, the State must provide an effective forum where the various requirements, expectations or disputes will be decided impartially and effectively. Restrictions on entry into such a forum shall be permissible but shall be reasonable or proportionate. It is now too often that the Constitutional Court assumes the function of regular courts, which is certainly not the intention of the founder. The applicant has also slightly extended the range of beneficiaries to apply for an assessment of constitutionality or legality, but in some cases our assessment may nevertheless raise doubts as to the constitutionality or legality of the acts adopted by the representative body of the local community. Because there are often situations in a scratch where either the mayor or the municipal council adopt a general act against which there is actually no effective legal path, at least not introduced in a scratch to enforce its illegality or unconstitutionality, so it would be worth considering the possibility of granting the right to a majority of the representative body of the local community who could request an assessment of constitutionality or legality. The Constitutional Court Act is a rare law that has lasted 12 years without amendment. The proposed amendments to the law will only alleviate the major crisis, but this is not a long-term solution to the problem. More fundamental changes will probably require a change in the constitution, which will not happen overnight. In Novi Slovenija we are aware of the open issues and want to improve the law during the parliamentary procedure, and we support the intention to eliminate the backlogs and thus the concept of the law as annexed.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u38	Mr Vice-President, Minister, Secretary of State, Members, Members, Visitors, a nice greeting. I give an opinion on the point under consideration by the Slovenian People's Party. By implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Constitutional Court became the highest body of the judiciary for the protection of constitutionality and legality and for the protection of human rights. The Constitutional Court is an independent and autonomous body that carries out a constitutional judgment. The role of the body in a country that guarantees constitutionality and legality and the protection of human rights is extremely important in democratic society. This is, of course, the role of the Constitutional Court in Slovenia. The topic of judicial backlogs, the issue of the efficiency of the work of our courts, the provision of the right to a trial within a reasonable time frame, the reduction of judicial proceedings and similar topics are on the agenda of the National Assembly in the last period, so to speak, at almost every session. This proves the seriousness of the situation in which the Slovenian judicial system was found. With regard to the Constitutional Court, it has been repeatedly pointed out that there is an increasing number of cases pending before the Court. This was mainly pointed out by the Constitutional Judges themselves. I would not like to mention statistics that are well illustrated by the explanation for the amendment to the law that we are considering. The figures are more than eloquent, but the most obvious is the fact that the number of cases before the Constitutional Court has grown exponentially in recent years and, of course, is becoming uncontrollable. We can see that, within the framework of the options, the Constitutional Court has worked as effectively as possible and has taken appropriate organisational and other measures with the aim of making it even faster and more effective. Of course, in the case of rationalisation, they cannot go beyond the legal provisions governing the procedures and conditions for the submission of constitutional complaints or requests or initiatives to initiate a procedure to assess the constitutionality and legality of the rules. Therefore, in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we assess that the amendment of the Constitutional Court Act is necessary and necessary. It would be very problematic for the rule of law to become proceedings in the Constitutional Court subject to unreasonable long-term decision. The proposed text of the law, of course, raises certain questions and dilemmas. Any additional determination of the conditions for the investment of different legal institutions in the Constitutional Court is, of course, a reduction in the possibility, a restriction on the use of an individual institution. However, this limitation is the only way to ensure the consistent implementation of the basic tasks of the Constitutional Court, which no other State authority in our constitutional system can replace. Disability or at least making the work of the Constitutional Court difficult for any reason could lead to a serious threat to constitutional democracy. So far, the regulation of the required legal interest in the application of the Constitutional Review Initiative is following a legal direction, but a more detailed definition or clarification of when the legal interest given is necessary is more detailed. This is where the law follows the right solutions. It is similar to the content of the applications by which a certain procedure is initiated before the Constitutional Court. Their precise definition is important both in terms of the easier part of the Constitutional Court and for the investor, as it helps to prepare the application. And our task is to adopt such laws that enable our citizens and citizens to easily exercise their opportunities and rights. The proposed law also brings other innovations towards simplifying procedures, while still ensuring sufficient procedural decision-making, which is a condition for ensuring the objectivity of the work of the Constitutional Court. It is of particular importance that a clearer definition of the measures on the basis of which the Court decides whether a constitutional complaint will be accepted for consideration. In addition to the amendments mentioned, the law also addresses the issue of substitution in the situation where the mandate expires at the same time as a large number of constitutional judges, but not all candidates are elected to the jobs applied for. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposed law actually solves complications due to the excessive number of applications received in recent years by the Constitutional Court. We must not afford that because of the excessive number of marginal wealth cases, the Constitutional Court would ignore its fundamental role and that it would suffer from decisions on matters that are really important to both the state and the citizens. We will therefore support the proposed law as suitable for further consideration. Of course, we will listen to today's debate and, above all, to the opinions of constitutional experts and the professional public. We are confident that we can work together to come up with solutions that will enable the Constitutional Court to work successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u40	Your Honors are here! The speaker in front of me said that we should not burden the Constitutional Court with marginal, substantial matters. But, Sir, who are you, who are you to speak and appreciate in this Chamber, what is rich, what is marginal? What is possible for someone marginal or rich [[...]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! ……]] Maybe it's not for the other guy. [[...]] We are not the ones who can determine what is important to an individual and what is not. And putting yourself in this role means putting yourself in the role of judges. And this is so much more dangerous, because in Slovenia there is still a separation of power, we have a legislative, executive and judicial branch of power. The proposed law, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as a basic reason why it interferes with the provisions of the Constitutional Court Act, cited the excessive or increasing number of cases before the Constitutional Court. So, in other words, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia said that too many people are rightly resorted to the Constitutional Court, but did not wonder whose fault it was. She stood up to the fact that it was people's fault. The question of whether these are judicial backlogs or the fallout of cases is the fault of people seeking their right. Maybe, just for the record, it's the inadequacy of the Constitutional Court. Perhaps it is the fault that the people employed in the Constitutional Court will be constitutional judges, carrying out various counseling, complementary lectures at universities, writing laws along with their work. Maybe it's the same thing. Perhaps their inefficiency is due to their failure to devote themselves to their work with the soul and body. But no, the Ministry doesn't ask that. It's people's fault they're looking for justice in the Constitutional Court. In doing so, allow me to point out the most important task of the Constitutional Court, which can somehow be rounded to the content, that the Constitutional Court compares acts with one another or their consistency and determines whether they are acts - that is, laws, sub-laws - in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as the highest legal order or not. It's interesting that we all know that these laws are passed by us. So, if there are holes in Slovenian legislation, then the holes went through the National Assembly. Only the National Assembly will pass laws. And obviously, if there are so many complaints against the Constitutional Court, we are accepting superficial, bad laws. But perhaps even more important than the one who adopts laws is who writes them. A while ago, I put in the National Assembly, in one of the professional services, to do an analysis of who proposed in this mandate how many matters in the field of Slovenian laws. Interestingly, 96.9% of the laws were drafted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the Ministry. The executive branch has drawn up 96.9% of the laws. Only 2.82% of all laws were drafted by Members and Members. And only one law or percentage, 0.28% of the law, was prepared by the electorate and the electorate. So those fora numbers of 5,000 electors or electors to be able to put the law into the parliamentary procedure. From this title, the title of authorship, we can also share the guilt of bad marriages. It follows that 96.9% of the bad laws later encountered in the Constitutional Court are the fault of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for simply preparing a bad law; a law that simply cannot live in life. A law that will be subject to the Constitutional Court's judgement after a month, two, three or four. Members and Members of Parliament, I would therefore like to show you the second option that they are not guilty of judicial backlogs or of belonging to a branch or to the Constitutional Court solely those seeking their right. In my opinion, at least equally guilty are we, in the National Assembly, in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, for adopting such laws as are subject to constitutional judgement. On the other hand, all those who are employed in the Constitutional Court are equally guilty because, in addition to their work, that is to say, decisions on constitutional matter still carry out a small number of other paid functions, and before the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, could come to the moment that it is implementing it today, that is, when it tries to move its legal matter away from the Constitutional Court, to make it untouchable, to make it so that citizens and citizens can no longer turn to it, that is, to move it away from real life, they should correct the mistakes that are being made or are taking place within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within the framework of the National Assembly and not least the system of the work of the Constitutional Court. And what does the minister suggest? The Minister suggests that the term of legal interest for submission should be added or added to the pedestal of complete non-availability in an act called a constitutional assessment. I will tell you today, I have quite a few constitutional initiatives or applications for myself in my work as a Member of the National Assembly. And the Constitutional Court already rejects initiatives from a title called "you have no legal interest". Then you know that this is a mass phenomenon among citizens and citizens. And today you support that option that will further strengthen the legal interest. Therefore, the decision of the Constitutional Court will move further away from reaching, in citing, of course - "ordinary citizens and citizens." According to the National Party, the idea pursued by the Ministry is totally unacceptable. The Minister further requests a limitation or raise of the criteria on the content of the applications. We also assess in this area in the National Party that the Constitutional Court of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, at least in physical or legal form. Hereafter; the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not make any other provision in the draft law than that the Constitutional Court departs from those for which it is established; since the Constitutional Court is not established or organised solely to be there as the highest guardian of rights to which no one will have access. According to our assessment, the Constitutional Court is the Ombudsman who will, in any event, jump in when the other courts fail. But not in this way as you propose within the government and as you support the speakers or members of the parliamentary groups in front of me. From this title, once again, we do not intend to adopt such solutions in the National Party. We estimate that this will, of course, be a grave intervention, not just in the so-called accessibility of the courts, not just in the word that we all like to do, that is, democracy. The amendment of this legislation in such a form will only result in one thing: withdrawal and inaccessibility. On the other hand, both the executive branch of power and the legislative branch of power do not hope to show up on the other two culprits, namely Slovenian policy, concentrated in the government, or Slovenian policy, concentrated in Parliament, because we adopt bad laws. On the other hand, the drafter does not hope to stumble into the content of the work or the content of the organisation of the Constitutional Court. According to my own assessment and according to the conviction of the Slovenian National Party Group, the two steps, i.e. better legislation, better sub-legislative acts and, last but not least, better organisation of this institution by the highest judicial branch of government, would be two steps that would have to be taken before the ministry could use this step to move the Constitutional Court away from people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u41	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall. To a large extent, it is possible to agree with what we have heard recently. There's got to be more problems. If we are speaking, in the event of amendments to this whole judiciary law, which we will undoubtedly face in this debate today, we must not blind our eyes to the fact that the reform of the judicial system that was undertaken by one of the previous governments and implemented it was not appropriate. Many legal experts have warned about this in the past, all the time since it happened, but obviously we are all deaf in this area. It's not just the backlog of one segment of the judiciary, it's about, we can say, the collapse of the entire system. The fact is, the system doesn't work. If someone has searched for justice over the years and is forced to address the Constitutional Court in such a way as is happening to us in our country because of inappropriate solutions in previous proceedings, then surely there is something wrong with the justice system altogether. The responsibility for this situation must probably be attributed to each of the authorities in this country, but certainly to justice only because there is no more efficient organisation, which, despite the fact that part of the responsibility we bear in the National Assembly, can be done independently. Nor is the problem, as some would like to say, under poor spatial and material conditions for the operation of judges. After all, this country hosted a legal expert outside our borders years ago, Mr Doukoff very well and simply analysed and told us what the problem is in our country. However, it seems that those in this assessment did not want to hear it. This assessment mainly referred to the different organisation of the judicial apparatus and to a different way of working in the judiciary. Surely appropriate legislation can make a significant contribution to this, and it can be agreed that it is also possible to agree that our society is needlessly hypernormalized and that it would probably be wise to approach the reform of this whole system in a reasonable way. Of course, not on the nose, but thoughtfully, taking into account the pros and cons of all these effects, and I must say that one of the steps on this path is also this change that we are considering today. Here I cannot agree with those who feel that, in order to tighten the conditions for access to the highest court instance, legal protection is being restricted or that legal protection is being removed from some. It is only necessary to be aware that the Constitutional Court is the final instance in this proceedings and that all those who need to do their part earlier - it is said, at all these different levels of courts - should do their part much better and significantly better, because if they did their part better and better, then they would not intervene with this last extreme asset as much as we have seen him lately. Thus, this change is necessary, according to my assessment, and we have to deal with it, really weigh it and see if it has more positive or more negative effects, and if we look at it honestly, we will find that it has more positive than negative effects. I think that it does not lower the level of legal protection of our citizens and citizens, but prevents the blocking of the operation of an institution that is very important at the end. You will recall, dear colleagues and colleagues, when we began this mandate, we have accepted the abolition of over 100,000 violations. There was also a talk at the time that this was not good; that it was not good because some who were to receive it would be left without penalty. Even for the sake of legal certainty, it wasn't right. What would happen if we didn't? I think that many who have been in these procedures, after we have accepted this, would not actually have experienced what is to be experienced in a state governed by law. I think that this change is necessary, but, of course, changes in other areas are also necessary, especially in the light of the overwinding of the functioning of organisation, the taking of responsibility at all levels of the justice system, the responsibility for their work first and then the search for errors in third. I think it's unacceptable, the case that we witnessed in New City a while ago, that someone who was in prison didn't get a ticket. There's no excuse here. The legislation here imposes formal or no law. I think we need to be aware here that some normal procedure, some normal rules of conduct, some ethics, if you want, those people working in this justice, must exist. We can't just lock ourselves up for strict formal restrictions and do what the law requires of us. That's not good. I think that this also undermines, in its entirety, the reputation of the entire justice of citizens and citizens. I also think that the problem, in its entirety, does not solve the increased number of judges, not particularly young judges, those who have not yet had the opportunity to gain experience, which we have been doing in this National Assembly in recent times. Without all these measures, which must be followed hand in hand or with one another, it will be very difficult to change. But I would like to say one more thing about this expression of wealth or small things. I think this notion is only that it is relatively easy and clear to define. I think that the criteria for this are very clear and that there is no need to be too much torture in this and that much of the problems with which the entire judiciary and the entire repressive apparatus - not only justice, but also the police and the prosecution - are facing at this point, is just too much of an emphasis on dealing with so-called wealthier matters. These matters may be important to an individual. And I'm not talking about not being able to achieve satisfaction, but these little things must not prevent satisfaction in the much bigger and more important things that are behind them; and that is my point. It is not acceptable for someone in a matter whose value does not exceed EUR 200, to be crippled by a repressive and judicial apparatus, and for those who should deal with matters where the size range exceeds EUR 2 million or EUR 20 million, to be unable to deal with it. Of course, in this case, it is also necessary to raise the question of the ability and expertise of those who are installed in these services, which has probably not been given sufficient emphasis in recent years. I'm sorry I went a little wider, but some of the debates have led me to the idea that it's just a whole and that somewhere is the top of this, if I may say so, icy mountains. However, I think that this novel, which we are witnessing today, is necessary and that if we do not want to achieve a blockade in the functioning of the Constitutional Court, something must be done. I therefore support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respectable present, respected present at the gallery! To tighten the conditions so that someone can decide on a constitutional judgment, I think it's a mistake, a mistake of this government. Last but not least, people in this country are not the ones who write laws or write bad marriages. In this mandate, there were 345, says 96.9%. There have not been as many constitutionality assessments in any government as there have been during this government's three-year term. Let me tell you, it is people’s fault, it makes it harder for us to determine whether it is the government or you who confirm these laws! Who's to blame? Do not aggravate the conditions for people to take advantage of the democratic right to legal protection granted to them by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The law also provides for, inter alia, the so-called lot, the lot in the event that the National Assembly does not approve the Constitutional Judge at its meeting, but, if so provided, decides who will continue to act as a Constitutional Judge until a new Constitutional Judge is appointed. That lot is so, so small, I think, biased. We have lots in our country in various shows, various popular scenes, and we know that some of these lots are a little bit neat. Therefore, I fear that the same will be true for constitutional judges, although legal protection or their determination or the extension of their mandate should be substantially, substantially stricter than for some, I will say, television shows and shows. Indeed, it would be the profession, the work, or the activity of a constitutional judge who would have to consider who would continue or continue to perform the highest protective function or the highest legal function in that country. Once again, the law makes it impossible for people to use the highest legal instance when it comes to their rights, just for that reason or as an excuse for the fact that this government has drawn up constitutionally contested laws in most cases; laws that are not in conformity with either the Constitution or another law. But the people of God, because it is not the people's fault that the parliamentary majority in this country adopts such laws! Nothing to mention in the National Assembly in the adoption of laws has been repeatedly said, both by the Slovenian National Party and by the other opposition, that we do not support the law because it raises doubts about constitutionality or can be constitutionally disputed. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, just remember how many times before the final vote on a certain law in the National Assembly were announced constitutional opinions had already been announced, already announced in advance! Don't tell me people are taking advantage of this institute! And even if we do, we have to let them. Any law which enters into force must be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and any doubt must be resolved that it is not established. For we make laws for people who are supposed to be such as to be understood and respected, because otherwise the law is "without connection". And so many constitutional judgments of an individual law, as many branches of the State Council as this government has received, have not yet received any government. And that's what statistics will also tell you if you take 3 to 4 minutes of time on your personal computer and you check it out, and you'll find that so many constitutional assessments have not yet been received by any government. And now to lay the blame and to prepare such laws that will prevent people from doing so, I find it unrealistic, misleading and discriminatory to the people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I will absolutely oppose such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected council, a respected minister and Secretary of State! I have had quite a few questions whether to get involved in this debate or not, because I am not a legal expert at all, but there are quite a few colleagues and colleagues from this section who I will listen to with interest in this debate. However, since the general debate on this proposal is the amendment of the law, I will also say some of my own thoughts on the issue of the Constitutional Court and the judiciary. And I think that is what most citizens and citizens think. The proposal for a new Constitutional Court Act is, in my opinion, a good one, and above all an extraordinary one, to say so, welcome, and I will support it. It is undeniable that the Constitutional Court is the highest court in the country which must ensure high standards of judicial protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. He's expected a lot. It is expected to ensure constitutional protection, respect for the fundamental constitutional principles of the rule of law and to exercise its powers effectively. People want an effective judicial system, without the judicial backlogs counted in thousands, and a judicial system that will be fair to all, regardless of position or political conviction. It is difficult for me to have an expert opinion on the individual provisions of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Constitutional Court Act, which is why I believe the profession it has prepared. But I understand what 5,000 pending cases mean in the highest court in the country. Not to mention other courts, because behind these numbers are people with their pressures, injustices, human tragedies, existential questions of individuals, not to mention further. The Slovenian language knows three times: the present, the past and the future. He also knows the fourth, and it's about time. And it is high time that, on the basis of the data provided and extremely worrying, we do everything necessary to relieve the Constitutional Court that this extremely important constitutional body is drowning in the cases it has received and unresolved. One of the main reasons for such a worrying situation is certainly unlimited access to this institution. With the proposed amendments and additions, it will be possible to ensure that the Constitutional Court can play its role as effectively as it is expected to, thereby ensuring a high level of protection of human rights in the country. The proposal thus provides for the rationalisation of work and procedures leading to the objectives set, namely the right to a trial without undue delay. The President of the Constitutional Court provided the public with information that we can all really be concerned about, since the Constitutional Court already received as many applications in the first month of this year as it did in the entire year 1999. Therefore, it is likely that by the end of the year it will have around 5,000 cases, of which 80% according to the data are left to so-called wealthier matters. And so, at that time, most of them were in the process of making decisions for two to three years, and at that time, a number of things could have changed according to the origin of the action. All of this makes it impossible for the Constitutional Court to decide on important matters within a reasonable time. The amendment therefore stipulates that the right to a constitutional complaint in so-called bountiful cases is limited, which is necessary, inter alia, if the Constitutional Court really wants to relieve itself of its role as the guardian of the Constitution and the Ombudsman of human rights and freedoms. I cannot help but feel that I do not think a disturbing statement by the distinguished, former President of the Constitutional Court would be: "To make the proposal on the American system acceptable if our constitutional court enjoyed a high degree of authority and this is not received by our constitutional court." End of quote. Let's ask ourselves why. It is undeniable that authority and reputation are built for a long time, but they are lost very quickly. Where, when and why this happened to the Constitutional Court, I don't know. Perhaps with all the known problems that we are talking about today, even because it certainly is not an impression that we are having difficulty talking about independence before the Constitutional Court, because somehow there is an opinion in the public eye, which I also share, that it is politically very close to one political option. It is expected from the Constitutional Court that it will be able to overcome ideological prejudice and that it will judge in a way that will benefit the entire Slovenian family and not just the group of people. This is the only way to gain a reputation and enjoy a high degree of authority. The independence of judges from the executive and legislative authorities is the foundation of European democracy - this is also enshrined in the Council of Europe resolution. According to all the polls and public opinion polls, our judiciary has landed at the bottom of the scale, which is certainly an alarm of concern. There is nothing wrong with democratic countries if there is an unpopular policy, but it is very wrong if a large part of the state apparatus or a third branch of power, which is the judiciary, is faced with low public reputation. Certainly, the fact of the Court's displeasure needs to be given much attention and thorough reflection is needed, as in our country we cannot and must not afford activities or citizens of Slovenia no longer believe in the principle of swift and fair trial; and even more so that they are constitutional and legal in the opinion of most people at the bottom. The compensation paid by all Slovenian taxpayers due to the backlog could be saved by Slovenia if it did not have to pay the penalty imposed on it by the European Court for long-term proceedings. The right to wait for years and years is no right whatsoever. Cankar wrote to us about a servant named Jerne and his quest for justice. We've got these Jerneys in the thousands today. It's time to go the other way, we can go the third way, because where we are now, it's not the way to go, it's the way to go. We must allow the Constitutional Court and the courts in the country to decide their rights and duties and charges without undue delay, independently, impartially and effectively. We must restore respect and respect to the Constitutional Court, courts and judges and give them the right place in the social and political part of the country. On the other hand, everything is also a major challenge for the Constitutional Court alone. I am confident that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Constitutional Court Act will contribute to a more effective part of the Constitutional Court, and I will therefore support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Mark Pavlich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister Dr. Sturm, Secretary of State Marolt, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It is good that we have a general debate today about one of the most important laws in our country, but it is bad that there are so few of us in this hall. I am pleased that, together with 13 other colleagues and colleagues, I have requested this debate, not to block the adoption of the good news and the urgent novelties of the Constitutional Court Act, but to extend the debate, because it is general, to a broader issue, of course also to any change in the Constitution. It is, and we agree with it more or less, that we are here, that the Constitutional Court literally drowns in the cases received and also unresolved. Allow me just a few statistics that I took after the press conference of the President of the Constitutional Court, Dr. Chebul. In 2005, the Constitutional Court of 1877 cases were brought before them and resolved in 1462. In 2006, there were 3,053 cases, and they were solved in 1667. At the beginning of this year, the Constitutional Court received as many cases as it did throughout 1999. They say there will be between 6,000 and 7,000 by the end of the year, and of course we can only guess how many of these matters will be resolved. There's more than one reason. The reasons are in the broad powers enshrined in the Constitution in particular, even partly in the law itself, in so-called unrestricted access to the Constitutional Court. And for some reasons, as well as bad marriages. I agree with that. But you know, with bad laws it is so; the rule can still be so good, and a skilled lawyer will be able to find a hole, saying that this hole is, of course, unconstitutional. That is why problems need to be tackled in full. Among the above cases is the fact that more than 80% of them belong to so-called constitutional complaints, which are truly often bountiful. This is an extreme legal remedy, for example, in the case of someone who is parked in the wrong parking lot or something more banal. If we narrow down the powers, as we will do in part with the amendment of the Constitutional Court or with the amendment of the Constitutional Court Act and perhaps even the amendment of the Constitution, we will not, in any way, interfere in legal, legal, and professional matters. Our citizens and citizens have plenty of legal remedies from the entire system of regular courts, which we hope will sooner or later emerge from the difficulties, from the backlogs, until then the Supreme Court, the Administrative Court, and we must not forget the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg, where it is also possible to seek justice. I am in favour of the novel itself, I agree with my colleague Ljubljana, that it is high time that we received it, a little late, but at the same time I say that this novel is, as it were, like a serious toothache being treated with aspirin, because I am afraid that we are already dealing with gangrene and that it will only help radical intervention into the gum. What is this radical intervention? This radical intervention is an intervention in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in which, of course, it is necessary to intervene, as Professor Pavčnik once said, by force shaking his hand. But when it was justified, that's what it means to do. It's not just my opinion. Let me quote some distinguished lawyers who think so. I have before me a copy of the 2006 report on the work of the Constitutional Court. Already in the introductory part on page 3, Dr. Čebulj, the President said, quote: "It was already emphasized in the 2005 Labour Report that the Constitution has set out the number of competences of the Constitutional Court and has left the legal regime for the purpose of a possible new one, while at the same time making it possible to have wide access to the Constitutional Court. This can only be changed by changes to the Constitution. These would be necessary, but a number of serious constitutional questions are raised as to what they should be." End of quote. This was summarized in the media, for example, in legal practice by mag. Matjaž Fatak, who also supports constitutional changes, was written by Professor Ude and mag. Guilty and could still count. I myself, because this has been mourning me for some time now, prepared a draft of such constitutional changes, specifically Articles 160 and 162, not to collect on all the weights of those 20 signatures that we need, and tabled a proposal into the parliamentary procedure without the prospect of reaching enough support, not just for the sake of launching a broader debate. If you recall, on 20 February, I addressed a letter to all the leaders of the parliamentary groups, attached this proposal and made this proposal known to the Minister, and I think he probably received it or managed to fly it. What's this all about? I propose, simplified, four types of changes that would turn this aspirin into an essential medicine. The first is the abolition of certain powers. If you will recall, the Constitution now states that the Constitutional Court also rules on disputes between state authorities and local communities and even between local communities themselves and also decides on disputes of jurisdiction between courts and other state authorities. We could quietly give up without interfering with the right of individuals to legal protection. Also, experts who do this more than themselves say, we are one of the few countries where we judge the constitutionality of the laws. This, of course, is also enshrined in the Constitution. The second category of proposed amendments concerns constitutional complaints. As a matter of fact, you're up to 80% of everything. I'm sure the novel will lead to some changes, but it would suggest thinking about two models. The first one is German - it's a little more conservative. After the German work, the Constitutional Court may decide whether or not to take a constitutional complaint into consideration, taking into account three criteria. The first is whether a particular matter would be important in terms of constitutional practice, the second, whether it is the protection of human rights and freedoms, and again, for skeptics, I repeat, for the protection of human rights and freedoms, in which case it should take a particular matter into consideration, and the third, whether the applicant or the applicant could suffer particularly serious harm. In such cases, there would be no doubt that the Constitutional Court would take any constitutional complaint into consideration. The American model is a little more flexible. There, however, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court of Unity, which also acts as the Constitutional Court, has the possibility of rejecting any case without justification. Interestingly, they deal with about 100 such cases each year, which are of course important. But we could, according to perhaps still, as you say, the relatively poor reputation of the Constitutional Court or perhaps still the puberty phase that we all survive - our country is 16 years old to install a guardian, that if three out of nine judges decide that a constitutional complaint is so important that then the Constitutional Court has to deal with it. The third category concerns constitutional initiatives. On constitutional initiatives, we would also leave total discretion to the Court with the guardian of the three judges. If the three judges considered that the case should be dealt with, they would consider it. The fourth amendment, which is probably the least controversial, is the following. I am convinced that two-thirds of the majority should be prescribed for such an important provision as the Constitutional Court Act. The two-thirds majority should also provide for other rules imposing additional powers on the Constitutional Court. Because that means that if we do something, there are more problems at the side door. Let me just remind you of the law on local self-government, and a few others have also brought an additional burden on the Constitutional Court, so to speak, around the back. When we talk about constitutional changes in the Constitutional Court, we must not overlook any other problems that arise in practice and are mentioned. This, for example, is the way to vote. Apparently, the current way isn't the happiest. I would personally advocate a system that exists in some countries, perhaps for a slightly modified German system 3x3. Let the three Constitutional Judges propose to the President of the State, three Judicial Councils, and three elected to Parliament. Maybe the wolf is full and the goat is whole. The second dilemma that arises is the number of constitutional judges. Is the current number 9 large enough, or is it 8? This argument of political balance doesn't convince me. I think so far nine is a pretty number. 8 might cause further problems in terms of voting and perhaps predominance of the vote of the President of the Court. So personally, I think 9 is good. Others will say that. The third dilemma is about the mandate. Is the mandate sufficient for 9 years or would it suggest an extension of 12 years? The argument that we do not have enough experts in Slovenia is that it is more difficult to find suitable experts in such a short period of time. That argument doesn't convince me personally either. If they have more weight, then I'm ready to talk, but for now, I don't think the constitution can change here. Another dilemma arises to me, but it is more delicate, which is actually part of the Constitutional Court Act. I've already written about this before I entered politics. I wonder if the "crem de la crem" of our legal professions, i.e. for the judges of the Constitutional Court, is enough that they are 40 years old and that they are legal experts or respected legal experts, that is what it says. Is it really possible, and it is possible, under this rule, that they do not have a state's legal exam? So, after home law exam. I once wrote that a lawyer without a judicial exam is like you without a church. And this, in particular, is what I think of as constitutional judges. I don't know, let's think about it or it's not time to do it now. I'm sure this suit, or future one, has this exam to a greater extent. But look how the judges in the district courts feel, the prosecutors and all the other experts in the justice system who don't have this extra education. Let me finish. As I say, I will be very happy to support the novel myself. However, I propose to Minister Šturm that, or support the proposal of the Social Democrats' Group of Members in the Home Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice in the coming days, they should make a public presentation on this subject. The public presentation of opinions has one important advantage over the general discussion. For a public presentation of opinions we can also invite external experts: Prof. Grad, Prof. Cerar and the whole range of them are, of course, constitutional judges, ministers and also our Members. However, if that is not possible and we need the coalition's support for this, but if that is not possible and, in rounding up, it does not mean that we want to slow down the passage of the law that is before us, and then, Mr Minister, I suggest you organise a conference, a seminar, anything on this subject, where we can discuss possible constitutional changes. You have a text prepared, I like to give it away to you or anyone else, just to serve this need, and as we say, we begin to heal a serious toothache in such a way that it will be healed forever and ever. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are talking about essentially an exaggerated part of the constitutional courts. Look, it's a simple assessment that a constitutional verdict is the only saving battle for many. And if we look at the fact that we have state judges and state prosecutors, who are average and, unfortunately, often sloppy, we can find that, in fact, lawyers who are able to do so can show us what the work of these courts is, at least for some, actually through judicial practice. And it's normal, it's perfectly normal for an evaluation to actually be very critical then. I am to the Minister of Justice, and I am glad that he is with us today, and I have recently asked the question of how much the state must pay because it does not respect the essence of the decisions of the courts itself. And when the State's Attorney's Office practically ignores its obligations and judgments being thrown into the basket or into some drawers, they complain, then legal interest, and from this title I am very interested in how much we have paid for the year 2000 and beyond. How much did we overpay? That goes from the budget, that's what we pay. If I pull another parallel, the employee is subject to the Labour Relations Act. Why is the law on employment not applicable to a judge? Why does a permanent term of office have to apply to a judge? Some judges make their standard when they deal with the legacy debates, when they deal in essence with some separate proceedings, when they legally comply with matters without some serious written proceedings or discussions. Those serious things that, of course, should go deep inside them, they're putting off. And that's why there's a backlog. Here's this simple peasant logic. And we need to say this about what negligence at work is, what it is to leave work obligations and what it is to do. It should also apply to a judge that, because he has caused, in essence, negligence or injury or has deliberately abandoned a work proceeding, there is a dismissal from the working relationship. I don't know any such case as to have my judge dismissed. But I know a lot of judges who act like that because they're irreplaceable, they feel that they're indispensable, they even teach in between, they have different jobs, they go after different other jobs that are well-paid. Look at the last case. When it came to court salaries, he was dealt with. Why didn't this one wait a year and a year, and why was it a reaction? There was a verdict right away. It is also interesting that we allow the Constitutional Court in some way to gain more and more work when we give silence to the judges. When we talk about how we will relieve these judges, it is quite clear and the only possible solution is to establish some order in the courts and responsible work. I am not against the fact that judges would not have a higher salary, but they must be responsible in their jobs. And their judgments, which fall immediately thereafter in the Supreme Courts, and also in the Constitutional Court, have no consequences. I don't know, but I need the Secretary-General to correct me if any of the judges were responding because he was losing judgment or judgment in order. And see, when the state avoids paying for what the court has determined, we also lose credibility to the courts. Many individual cases are known to have been obtained in court, but the state cannot pay for what the court has ordered. Complaints and judgments are to be heard. And when one only finds the right to one of the superiors, we can find that it took a new extra job, new people, new lawyers had to deal with it, constitutional judges had to deal with the case. And who was the answer? I don't know one public defender who would be called to account, not one state judge, not one prosecutor who filed, I'll say, in violation of the law, a criminal charge to be held responsible for this. This creates additional work for the Constitutional Court. And lastly, I would also like to say this, if we don't take care of wisdom in this temple to adopt better-quality laws, we too are giving too much work to constitutional judges, this is what my colleague, Mr Boštjan Zagorac, has already said that in fact there are a number of laws or a lot of laws that have experienced constitutional judgment. This should also be done by you, Mr Justice Minister, so that this disgrace does not go on Slovenian air. The fact is, we are very, very good in this area. Almost every law has either concerns on the Council of State or consents to the Constitutional Court for constitutional review. And I don't think that's good, and it's not good because we're losing a lot of money from the state budget, which we throw easily through an open window. And in this way, we do not give any incentive to good lawyers to go to court. Nor do we give any encouragement to those who wish to be either in the ranks of state attorneys or in the ranks of prosecutors, because the fact that they are already generally known there are incompetent, but not, better among lawyers, is well earned there - a law firm, a little deception, wisdom and intelligence and we will earn well there. This is a well-known fact, gentlemen. That's why the Constitutional Court works as hard as it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor. I'm sorry, I didn't see you. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. That's all I want to pass on. A few months ago, a judge, who was also President of the Court, was dismissed for failing to comply with the conditions of the Judicial Service Act. This discharge was carried out by the Council of Justice in accordance with the powers it has.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I think we share the view that the Constitutional Court is that part of the branch of power that enjoys the greatest reputation between citizens and citizens in the country of Slovenia. Otherwise, we know that this branch of power is in a pretty bad voice. We also know that this is also due to past work, including policies in this area and also to inadequate situations in which the judiciary had to work. I think that the situation is actually improving significantly under Mr Šturm's ministry and that Mr Šturm is trying, in accordance with his powers, to do everything possible to ensure that the right to a trial within a reasonable time and the right to legal remedies are substantially improved for citizens and citizens. Of course, today’s debate, which deals with everything that is right in its own right, shows that there is a lot of duality between us here in the hall. In fact, we note that this Constitutional Court needs to be left alone - not to say that some colleagues have found - to let it solve all the cases that citizens and citizens consider that they must be resolved by the Constitutional Court. Often, however, the reason is that the rest of the judicial branch does not work as it should. That's why I think that's the main reason that this is such a ghastly case before the Constitutional Court. I don't think it's the main problem or the legislation or the organisation of the work of the Constitutional Court, but the problem of the rest of the judiciary. What to do right now? One of the possible measures proposed today is also the amendment of a law that actually tries to reduce those justified complaints that actually interfere with the highest peak of judicial proceedings. These are, in my opinion, general legal acts and human rights. That's my personal opinion. I think that the Constitutional Court should actually remain the appellate body alone and in particular in cases where other courts cannot and are not actually competent to process them. In this context, I would also point out that if the Minister is not allowed or if his initiatives are not already approved for constitutional change, namely in the areas of the rest of the judiciary with which he attempted to enforce the possibility of employment, the temporary employment of judges who could help solve the problem and the pressure on the Constitutional Court in other areas, we are now talking quite often about the need for the smooth work of the Constitutional Court to amend the Constitution. With such restrictions that the Constitutional Court now has, it simply cannot do this work. I therefore think that we all agree in this Chamber who is taking this law seriously. Of course, I do not think that the limited work or the limited capacity of the Constitutional Court can now be the reason why the possibility of resolving cases that are typical of the Constitutional Court should be limited. We see that, in fact, in the proposal of the law, there is also a slightly wider range of beneficiaries to apply for an assessment of constitutionality and legality, which I think is positive. My personal opinion is that this circle should expand even further. If I come from practice and from the above-mentioned reason or assumption of what the Constitutional Court is supposed to solve, this is general legal acts which are not limited, in my opinion, only to the state level, but also to the local level. General legal acts, we know that they have been adopted at the local level with complete autonomy, and in practice no one is effectively monitoring the legality and constitutionality of these acts today. Otherwise, the Law on Local Self-Government states: "The Ministry must warn the body of municipalities, which it considers to have issued an act which is not in accordance with the Constitution and the law and propose appropriate solutions to it. If the authority of the municipality fails to comply with its general act with the Constitution or the law, the Ministry shall propose to the Government that it request the initiation of proceedings before the Constitutional Court to assess the conformity of the general act of the municipality with the Constitution and the law." It is true that this law contains legal protection, but in practice this matter does not actually take place. I therefore propose that the allocation of the right to qualified majority in the representative body of the local community, which could make a request for an assessment of constitutionality and legality, be included in the range of beneficiaries for the assessment of constitutionality and legality. I am sure that this would not mean a significant larger one to the Constitutional Court, too, because I believe that so far so many cases have not been filed by the very local level for the assessment of constitutionality. However, those who had been submitted had often been very justified and the Constitutional Court had often ruled in favour of the complainants. Given that the main general acts at the local level have already been adopted and the consequences, perhaps illegality or unconstitutionality, and those rare legal acts that are still being adopted, I do not believe that they would constitute some additional burden on the Constitutional Court if this law were adopted, by reducing the many bountiful cases that are also mentioned as the reason for this law, it is said that pressure would be precisely due to those minor cases that have no major consequences. Therefore, I believe that such a determination would be worth considering, but I do not see the possibility that this would impede the regular work of the congregations, which was the reason for some opposers of such a proposal to block the regular work of the congregations. This cannot be true, since only the application to the Constitutional Court does not yet constitute the cessation or blocking of an act, unless the Constitutional Court quickly finds that something is wrong. In this case, it is good that the implementation of the act is stopped. Perhaps there is just something else about rich things that some colleagues have previously commented on than those that interfere with basic human rights. I do not think that any matter in itself is material if it violates any right, but above all I believe that it is necessary to arrange for the resolution of these matters to be handled by other Instalants. In fact, once again, the Constitutional Court must be reserved for the assessment of the general legal acts in our country at all levels. And I think that should be the top priority. I would not let this moment go into the work of the Constitutional Court itself, but there might be something else that could be rectified, not in the very criteria for constitutional judges, and I agree here that a debate would be necessary. If the Constitutional Court only allows the short-term execution of the trial and the resolution of the problems of citizens and citizens, then I am also in favour of considering amending the Constitution, amending the conditions for constitutional judges and also amending the number of constitutional judges at the final stage. I do not think that the institution itself can be an obstacle to not improving the situation in this area. However, it is certainly necessary to exhaust and fully discuss proposals already made by the Ministry of Justice. In this context, I will continue to support other proposals. The concept of the law itself, as I mentioned earlier, and on behalf of the Group of Members, I support it myself. I agree, however, that in the course of the follow-up procedure it might be possible to add something else, some improvement, and I also think that today's debate can help.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! I, too, believe that today's debate is useful, good, giving us different perspectives. We all probably want the problem that has arisen in the work of the Constitutional Court to be resolved as best we can. I also agree that it would be good if we could resolve this problem by amending the Constitution, but we must also take into account the reality that the change in the Constitution is not as simple as it has been said, the Constitution changes and write changes with a shaking hand, so we must be aware that the process of amending the Constitution is a long-term and, in fact, the final result is also uncertain and questionable. It is therefore right to resolve this problem, which is very severe and very present and present, as proposed, by amending the Constitutional Court Act. There are also very interesting suggestions, in what way also respected Dr. Pavlich mentioned, more options for deciding when a matter is to be taken for constitutional consideration, etc. However, we must strive to see that the real purpose of this law is that we are trying to achieve it as soon as possible. However, I must also turn to or point out some of the things that have been said today and which in fact also constitute a misunderstanding of the system itself and of the functioning of the Constitutional Court. I would like to say that the Constitutional Court is deciding, on the one hand, the constitutionality and legality of the law and other general acts, that is one matter. On the other hand, he solves constitutional complaints. And when some of the debaters here get confused about what a proposal for a constitutional assessment is, what an initiative for a constitutional assessment is, I think it's a very big mix, and you don't really know what one is, what the other is. When it comes to the insatiability of the Constitutional Court and it is said that the Constitutional Court is saturated with the fact that laws are heavily invested in constitutional judgment, it is very clear that the main extent of saturation is not in assessing the legality and constitutionality of the law and other general acts, but in constitutional complaints. And here it is that this proposal limits the circle and scope of these applications for constitutional review. So rich things, trespassing, misdemeanors and procedural costs. This is how the matter needs to be known, and only then do so directly about individual matters. If we don't know what we're talking about, then we mix pears and apples a lot. And when we talk about what has also been said by one of the debaters, that many initiatives for constitutional review have been put into this mandate, even most of all in relation to the other mandates, it is necessary to say at the same time that a large part of these initiatives have been rejected by the Constitutional Court, only a small part of the initiatives have been taken into consideration and taken into account in the final stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u58	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Respectable. This may be a more important matter than it looks at first sight or, as we may have started the debate, therefore, of course, such a debate is welcome. The Constitutional Court is interpreted as the highest court or supreme authority in the field of judicial authority or, if we wish, the highest guardian of legal certainty in a country. The changes in the law that we are adopting today are certainly due to some situation in our society or a mirror of the situation in some area in society, and this in a specific area - this is a matter of judicial authority. To begin with, I would remind you that almost every week we receive a greeting from the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights, mainly due to an unreasonablely long trial. And of course, this is where the state gets its punishment. That is, everyone, because there is a generalisation of work in a specific, specific area that is not as it should be. It doesn't fit the standards. This is about backlogs in our courts that are unreasonablely long. Moreover, the decisions of the courts are sometimes unreasonable. Of course, are they? Not necessarily, they may be, but only we can think that unreasonable decisions are in the courts. And if we add to this the characteristics of the Slovenians that we like to justify ourselves and at the same time do not want to make a judicial decision, if that does not suit us, then the script is approximately set. To remind you of just one example. I'm sure it's a banal case. Elections in Isola. When the results of the elections were not at the will of the losers, they said, "Now let us complain." Even though they knew that they had complained too quickly because the whole process had not yet been completed. When they got rejected from the Constitutional Court, they said, "We knew they would reject us because we were too quick." Now I'm asking you where this is going. Now, who does that show that something's wrong? Or a bad marriage? What law? About the election? No way, if I didn't take advantage of the whole procedure, I got ahead of myself. Given that the Constitutional Court is the supreme instance of a profession, then certainly because of the wealth of matters we cannot remain in the essential area, that wealthier matters will be filled and prevented, that the Supreme Court will be able to decide on essential matters, on essential matters of the system, and, if you will, on a national level. I mentioned Isolo. And if we have more unreceivables than there, then we can get a few hundred, close to 200 cases. And if we take into account the fact that the National Assembly adopts several hundred laws in each mandate, and if all are completely wrong, after thinking of some, it is still just a few hundred matters that have obviously been prepared by the profession. Are we going to say that there is something wrong with our legal profession because there are so many complaints before the Constitutional Court? It's not necessarily that. And there are still only a few hundred of them, as far as I'm concerned, but there are several thousand cases in the Constitutional Court. This is said not to be the fault of the bad laws prepared by the profession, but we confirm them or supplement them, this is a minor matter in the whole of the case before the Constitutional Court. That's supposed to be something else. Thus, it is the majority of cases that come from the judicial branch of power and relate to the work of the courts. So it is a matter of matters as the last attempt to solve cases from normal court proceedings, and the reason is also our thinking, Slovenian, for example: "I will no longer agree that I will lose my right. I want to be right, and I'm gonna go all the way, and it's gonna cost whatever it takes. Let's go to the Constitutional Court!" How many of these cases do we have from the media when, in fact, we don't know what happened before, they say, no, we'll go all the way if we have to, even to the Constitutional Court. Without trying or trying to try in the intermediate phase. But it is true that this is also the fault of the judicial system, which has unreasonablely long arms, which is why I started with the Strasbourke Court at the beginning. That this is, as I said, a situation in the judiciary is said to be an unreasonablely long time when it comes to the speed of the trial and a number of unreasonable decisions. Here I will mention, for example, indeed in that very sense an unreasonable decision at the beginning of the proceedings, the possibility of the escape of suspects and, already in the course of the proceedings, the justification for the shadow attack. Sometimes we ask ourselves here whether a scale can be the right symbol for this system. I think it should stay, but something will have to be changed. That's not the last thing the Strasbourke Court is warning us about. I am convinced that the Constitutional Court, as the supreme instance, must deal with the substance, the substance of the infringements on the relationship to a speedy and fair trial, and that it is also fair, within a reasonable period, that the scale is valid. Smoking thefts can certainly be handled by lower courts and must be concluded there. This is what is essential for the authorities not to deal with it. And they cannot deal with such works, for we also banalize the value of this body, that is, the Constitutional Court. That's for sure. And that's a fact. To conclude, a comparison could be made from the economy. If the director of the administration of a car company, which was a large, system, dealt with and decided on screws, their products, then would lose control of the essence because it would run out of time and because it would no longer be able to see globally or because it would no longer be able to see globally. And what would happen? It would be very difficult with that company. I'm sure we don't want the director to make that decision in a company. I'm sure it's because he would have a broken production system with bolts. The screw is certainly an important part of that whole product. However, screws should be dealt with at a lower level, where this level is within reach. Director, if he's dealing with bolts, he's sure his system's gonna fall apart. Is that what we want in the Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Court will deal with the screws? No, I'm sure you don't. Because in this case, too, the Constitutional Court would fail to see the system fully and the system would fall apart. This is certainly not what we want, so I support such a change as is envisaged. Of course, this will not solve the basic case, which is the work of the judicial branch of power, which is also pointed out by the Strasbourg court. These are unreasonablely long arms. But it is certainly one of the stones or one of the screws to the road so that this system can work easier. And in this context, I support such a change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! Since time is going to drive me away, I'm going to limit myself to just one thing. It must be said that the issue of judicial protection is not just in our country. I have recently heard that countries are doing this in very different ways. And in Italy, I've heard that every five years, every judge will be tested. Here we are very careful about this, and we have felt that even a trial term against a permanent mandate would be an unusual attack. But now I would like to because I have to say that I support this law and I understand that it was made because there are problems that would only increase. I'd like to ask myself this. In this article, which, somehow, also defines these options from the beginning of the procedure for assessing the constitutionality of legal acts, now gives the Court the possibility to terminate the proceedings in its decision-making if it considers that part of the law is unconstitutional. I believe that this is all done to prevent the possibility of someone being convicted on the basis of an unconstitutional law or anything. However, I'm afraid, but I don't know if I'm thinking right now that an individual judge who somehow doesn't want to judge certain matters could use this mechanism to stop some proceedings, even though he may know that this is not an unconstitutional matter. I got a thing in my head last year. It was clear that some courts simply did not want to bring matters before a court, such as war crimes cases, even a preliminary procedure. Regarding this war crime, individual lawyers have also explained that this is contrary to international ratified treaties, given when these treaties were ratified and introduced. And there are cases like this. I think that the case of Kosovel in Primorsk years ago, where, in my opinion, as well as in any other opinion, the court served absurd reasons to reject it, to condemn it against the person who brought the judgment. Then this hilly thing, Rajsp on the Pohorje and so on. It is simply in my opinion that part of the judiciary feels obliged to protect the moral basis of a certain ideological political bloc, which is the root of the former system, the former regime. I don't know, it seems to me that a case like this might be possible even if it is too wide for every court or judge to be able to, I don't know how it works, to use such a case in some way, to block a court case so that it can be abused. On this basis, Slovenia would return to the Strasbourke Court to repeat cases of misjudgment on matters. I don't know, maybe my thinking is completely wrong, but this dilemma has triggered me and I'm putting it here in public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The list of reported discussers is exhausted. Would you like a word, Mr. Secretary? [[No, no, ……]] Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I wonder whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I find that no, and this concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, decide today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 9th item of the agenda or no later than 20 o'clock. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is another defence proposal for a law on the Romani community in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. There's no government representative. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a working body and prepared a written report. Here you go, Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u62	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I mean, because this program went a lot faster today, so we should ask ourselves if the government representative is anywhere near or thinking about coming. If a few minutes, ten minutes, arrive in due course, I would suggest that we suspend this meeting and wait for a representative of the government. I think he needs to explain his views and his view of this law. This isn't any kind of law, so I'd suggest you give five minutes off first to see if the government representative is coming when he gets here. Besides, if he doesn't come, that's a serious problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Gantar. I agree, and at the same time, I am informed that he will be here in a good minute. That's why I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly or this point for five minutes, and we're going to continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u64	We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, and I give my word to the government representative for further explanation of the bill. Please, Mr. Mag. Baluh - Director of the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Nationality, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u65	Good afternoon, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Today, we have before us the Law on the Roma Community, which will in some way fulfil one of the fundamental, democratic principles of the political system and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and, of course, guarantee the realization of these rights and freedoms. These rights include equality before the law, expression of nationality, the right to use its language and writing, the prohibition of promoting inequality and intolerance, the prohibition of promoting violence and war, and the special rights of minorities expressed in pluralism and the fundamental principles of mutual tolerance and understanding among people. The law that will fill some of the legal voids that have been in the Republic of Slovenia since 1990, when Slovenia adopted a declaration of good intentions and also the fulfilment of the basic constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia and the 65th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia will be given a legal status through this law, which will regulate various areas and at the same time will be the fulfilment of the international conventions signed by the Republic of Slovenia. I am referring to the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities and the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, where the Roma Community is also specifically expressed or defined the purpose of both Conventions in relation to them. In preparing the law, the Nationality Office invited various social and political actors and sumarum suspicions to 46 different opinions, opinions and proposals. In doing so, let me point out that the Roma community also participated in the legal person of the Union of Roma Slovenia, which is in fact also the representative of all Roma in the Republic. Let me also point out that the Republic of Slovenia, by this law and by filling the legal void, is also the first country in the European Union to receive the Roma Community Act, and in some ways will be a lighthouse for all other countries that have this area in one way or another. However, I do not think that any country is as specifically regulated as the Republic of Slovenia does. It should be borne in mind that the Roma community does not have the position of a classical national minority as we know it in the Constitution, but it is a special community or minority, an ethnic community with special anthropological, ethnic and cultural differences. I have in mind language, culture and history. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia also regards it as a special Roma ethnic community living in the Republic of Slovenia. It is about providing special protection, which is known in legal theory as so-called positive discrimination or positive protection. This means that in regulating the specific situation and specific rights of the Roma community, the legislator is not limited to the principle of equality, which prohibits discrimination based on nationality, race or other circumstances in the regulation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, as provided for in Article 14 of the Constitution. The Law on the Roma Community governs the situation of all Roma in the Republic of Slovenia and complies with Article 65 of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u66	Thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force [[report received]] . We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Yelen will give his position to the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u67	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members, Mr Representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! The DeSUS Group supports both the principle of equal treatment of the rights of all citizens and citizens, as well as the principle of the exercise and exercise of specific rights of national minorities and of specific groups, including the Roma community. We cannot deny that Roma live in unfavourable social conditions primarily because of the historical circumstances and rejection of the majority population and are still marginalized and subject to prejudice. These also show the results of numerous studies and public opinion studies which confirm the suspicion of a strong social distance towards members of the Roma community and the predominant stereotyped perception of the characteristics of the Roma population. Therefore, our Group firmly believes that the Roma community, as a special group in our country, needs to provide special protection in the area of the elimination of prejudices, the prevention of discrimination in the field of education, employment and also of the participation of the Roma community. The country and society as a whole must be given the opportunity to participate in social life. A number of documents, regulations, programmes and guidelines have been adopted in the Republic of Slovenia, whose substantive basis is the protection of human rights and minorities, respect for diversity, elimination of discrimination and the prevention of intolerance. Thus, the specific rights of the Roma community as a special ethical community are already guaranteed in the sectoral legislation. In addressing this proposal, however, questions arise within our parliamentary group as to whether a specific Roma law, which is supposed to somehow regulate the situation and specific rights of this community, is necessary. Members of the DeSUS do not object at all to the roof law, despite doubting that a Roma issue would be resolved on the basis of such a law. We believe that the reconciliations and the situation of this community are properly regulated in sectoral legislation and that they need to be consistently respected and implemented. As I have already mentioned, our parliamentary group does not object to the idea of a roofed Romani law as such, but our opinions were shared on the content of the proposed law, as we expected greater concordance of the proposed law, as well as consideration of the diversity of individual Roma groups among the particular Roma community. Given that the proposal does not follow this, there have been divergent opinions between the Roma themselves. For example, the newly established union of the Roma communities of Slovenia, the White Landscape, Dolenjska, requires the proposal to be withdrawn from the next legislative procedure. And if the content of such a roofing law, which is supposed to regulate the rights of the Roma community in principle, does not agree with the Roma themselves, then I wonder what such a law should serve. Despite the fact that, according to the motioners, this bill is intended to define and formulate the specific rights enjoyed by the Roma community in the Republic of Slovenia without including in detail all specific rights, we estimate in our parliamentary group that the bill is too general and too eloquent. Furthermore, it does not include a solution to the question of autonomy, which we consider to be a significant drawback. The text of the bill has been drawn up for a longer period and, following a general procedure, has been submitted to the legislative procedure relatively quickly following the tragic event in Ambrus. On the basis of such conditionality, we are skeptical in the case of Strojan, because we believe that such cases would not occur if the State and the local communities were to decide on the recognition of the specific rights of the Roma communities of those 12 laws that have been in force for a long time in the Republic of Slovenia. Opinions in our parliamentary group are divided in terms of the words, and therefore each Member of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on the Roma Community will vote in his/her conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Possonec will give her position to the National Community. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u69	Your Honor! The Roma community in the Republic of Slovenia does not have the position of a classical national minority, it is a special community or minority that has special anthropological, ethnic and cultural characteristics, i.e. its language, culture, history. The legal basis for regulating the situation of the Roma community in the Republic of Slovenia is Article 65 of the Constitution, which provides that the situation and specific rights of the Roma community residing in Slovenia are governed by law. This laid the legal basis for protective measures, while at the same time pointing out the fact that Roma cannot be equated with the situation of the Italian and Hungarian national communities in Slovenia because of their specificities. The draft law thus regulates the situation and specific rights of the Roma community, the responsibility of the State authorities and the authorities of the self-government local communities to implement them and the organisation of the Roma community to exercise their rights and duties. It defines and defines the specific rights of the Roma community, i.e. those rights which this community enjoys in addition to the individual rights that apply to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia equally. It is therefore a positive protection of minorities, a so-called positive discrimination. It is the responsibility of the Roma ministries, other state authorities, the authorities of the local self-government, and the Government appoints a special working body to coordinate these activities. The draft law does not deal in detail with specific rights, as these are already regulated in the field legislation, which is of paramount importance since it is implemented on the ground, where its impact is most needed. I appreciate the positive fact that he finally saw the light of the world's law on the Roma community, but I think it's a few years too late. The Roma issue is a sensitive area. It would take thousands of years to pass, but it's not just overnight. But it is worth the effort, for in this way we will maintain great value for civilization and do something for the fellow human being. For example, Roma should acquire well-run habits, which require time and responsibility. So, in my opinion, the Roma would need work first. They would need to enable them to live in conditions that are appropriate for today. Where possible, they need to be included in the collective, and in all areas it is also necessary to eradicate the discrimination that we are facing today. For example, two workers who work really well received only 60% of the wages that others received for the same work. I think it's discrimination of the worst form. Education institutions, kindergartens and schools play a major role in the fastest possible socialisation. In the Long Village there is a kindergarten for Roma children and for children from the village. They're very cooperative, and they have very nice kids together, and it doesn't occur to them to get divorced. As a result, children feel and respond positively to anxiety, love, and so look to the future with confidence. As I said, we have a number of Roma communities living in co-existence with the villagers. We are able to resolve all problems in agreement, but a proper approach is needed, concern for the wider local community, that is, the countries and the municipalities, and a warm human term offered. I think things are going to be easier now because I think there's also a responsible person at the office who has the right attitude towards all these problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr Baluh of the Office of Nationality, honourable Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the Law on the Roma Community, prepared by the Nationality Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and supported by both the Union of Roma Slovenia and the Forum of Roma Saints. We are pleased that, as the first country in the EU, we will regulate this area in a comprehensive and transparent manner. As you know, the other countries regulate this area either in their constitutions or in their sectoral laws, some in the common minority law or through specific projects. The regulation of the legal situation of Roma or Roma communities, which does not have the status of a classical minority, began in 1989 when a provision was adopted with constitutional amendments to regulate the legal situation of Roma by law. Today, these Roma issues are being addressed within 12 sectoral laws, which only partially address the problem. I would like to point out first that already in 1995 the desire for a roofed Romani law has shown itself, but the then ruling coalition has not gathered enough political will and courage to settle this area in such a way. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the timely adoption of such a Romani law could also lead to some of the events that we witnessed months ago and which some have been deliberately fomented and fuelled only in order to cast a bad light on the government and, above all, on all those involved in solving these problems. There were also more than obvious different attempts and scenarios to cause some general chaos in the country, thereby distracting the government coalition and then, of course, can prove to be the only possible saviors of this country. The law that we have before us today primarily governs the situation of the Roma community in the Republic of Slovenia, their special rights, their organisation and, above all, creates conditions for better communication between Roma and state and local authorities. This is mainly demonstrated by the establishment of the Council of the Roma Community of the Republic of Slovenia, which represents the interests of the Roma in relation to the state authorities. The State and local authorities must, even before adopting anything in relation to the situation of Roma, ensure a prior opinion of the Roma community. In view of the last income I mentioned at the outset, this will certainly be a welcome change or step forward, as we are confident that this will lead to significantly better communication between all three actors; that is: the local community, the country and the Roma. In addition to the general rights applicable to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, the Roma community, as a special ethnic community with its culture, language, way of life, must also ensure the so-called special rights as well as the principle of positive discrimination, which is not limited to the principle of equality. The Roma community, as a minority community, must and can retain its ethnic characteristics only by granting it special rights, which in our view should also be written down together with the duties that Roma should exercise in the way they should be exercised or should be exercised by the majority population. As I have said before, every right on the one hand represents an obligation on the other. Roma must begin to realize that they also have responsibilities, such as those imposed by Slovenian legislation on all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. There can be no Roma here and there must be no specialties in any case. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the importance and sensitivity of the issue that we are dealing with. We are aware that this area needs to be regulated, which we will certainly not be able to achieve without the gradual and reliable integration of Roma into the social environment to which they belong. Of course, more attention would have to be paid to the educational field, as only education and a changed system of values can contribute to greater socialisation of the Roma and consequently reduce the differences between the majority and the Roma population. We are also aware that the problem of co-existence between the majority population and Roma is great and therefore calls for this area to be regulated by a more appropriate legal basis, which is certainly the Law on the Roma Community. That is why we will also support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat will give the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. President of the Government Office, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the wake of the bill on the Roma community, a number of questions were raised by Members and Members of the Group of Social Democrats; there were more than answers. We therefore had a lot of comments and agreed with the many comments made in the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. We expected it to complement some comments and resolve issues, but unfortunately it is not possible to find out from the complementary proposal of the statutory law. Therefore, for the Group of Social Democrats, it is not a fundamental question whether a specific roof law on the Roma community is needed or a sufficient legal basis in 12 specific laws. We also do not link this issue to questions or concerns about the need to provide a legal basis for the regulation of specific rights. And that is why we will not oppose the proposed law. Another time. If we regulate the specific situation and rights of the Roma community in law, then the content of the law must be subject to the formation of the Roma community. In our view, therefore, the views, comments and views of the Roma community must be taken into account. The law provides for a representative interlocutor to the State, i.e. the Government, but it must take as many votes as possible of the Roma community. If the Union of the Roma Community unanimously supported the law, some of the concerns and comments of the Forum of Roma Councilors could not be heard, nor was the Union of Roma Communities in Slovenia, the White Country and the Dolenjska, supported by hundreds of signatures. It would certainly be the law and, above all, the Roma community would benefit from being informed of the content of the law. If the content were properly presented, there would also be a greater degree of trust and confidence in the fact that the law brings something positive, even stronger. Third time. The law should allow for the possibility of different regulation of similar issues. The situation of Roma is different in various parts of Slovenia. Their degree of integration into the environment is different. The bibian situation is not the same either. That is why we have adopted the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service as highly justified and in this context we also understand that the expression of the Roma settlement must be defined if we agree to the thesis that these settlements have a specific nature. However, if we accept the thesis that the Roma settlement does not have any specificities or specifics, then in our view it would take a lot of resources and time to regulate the situation, and until then some transitional provisions should be adopted to regulate the spatial problem in such a way that this regulation would not be left to a more or less comprehensible environment. Fourth time. The largest part of the law, almost three quarters, speaks of the formation of various organs of the Roma community. Of course, in the Group of Social Democrats, we want the Roma community to benefit from this. However, we had quite a few comments on the election system or appointments to these representative bodies. Most importantly, how much will the Roma community be able to participate in the design and content of the various programmes adopted by the government? The regulation of the specific rights of the Roma community will still remain in the 12 sectoral laws in which it is necessary to have clear objectives and for which it would be right, and the proposer also believes that they will have to be complemented. And let me finally read from the article of a great Roma acquaintance, Dr. Vera Klopčič, who said at the meeting: "In some ways and only in some segments, the majority society's approach to equal partnership is changing, and it is only right that, in taking on shared responsibility for development, we would not only be looking for faults for conflicts and disagreements only on the part of one or the other community." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u74	Thank you, too. I don't want to chase Members to the speed of their speech, but the rules you or I have set together limit the time, and please, if you all stick to these restrictions together. Thank you. Member Jožef Školč has the floor in presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have also adopted, with mixed feelings, the solutions brought by this law in our parliamentary group. I can say in advance that we will not oppose him and that we will try through these procedures and also through any other discussions to lead to any new solutions which would improve the situation of the Roma community or the legal framework for regulating the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia. From this point of view, the proposal we have before us is more than what the government or its representatives are - because they have demonstrated when it comes to the question of the Roma. Remember a lot of the Huja statement by the people who today make up the ruling coalition, and from this point of view it is certainly better that we come to Parliament and talk about possible solutions. However, this proposal certainly brings significantly less than it could bring. And it brings significantly fewer solutions precisely in those areas where the Roma warn that there are problems. Here we join the remarks made by the Legislative and Legal Service that certain things are not sufficiently defined; not what a Roma settlement is, nor what is the criteria of representativeness for these organisations representing the Roma, nor what a provision would mean, what is the longer-lasting disturbance of public order and peace. In particular, I would like to point out that in the debate on the parental committee we have been given what, I can say, is a chauvinistic explanation of what this Roma settlement is. This provision, too, should it remain with the justification that we have heard there, as well as this other provision on long-lasting interference, confers on the Roma community something which should not otherwise be attributed. The law is certainly good at this because it brings about the status of both the Council of the Roma Community and the Union of Roma. This eliminates, I will say, the question of who is the legal representative and how these problems can be solved. However, it is certainly not true that it removes a legal void that is supposed to be based on the provisions of the Constitution if the situation of the Roma community is governed by law. Here it is only true to say that many issues have already been resolved by various laws. This marriage brings some news that I said was modest, but still important. But it doesn't establish anything purely from nothing. Finally, let me say that in these opinions I am also disturbed by the patronizing attitude that we feel towards the Roma, if they must change one way or another, the Roma are obliged to do this or that. In this area, we must first of all ask ourselves what laws the National Assembly can adopt, what regulations the State authorities can adopt; what are the obligations of the State to solve this problem, but not what Roma must be like in order to be liked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u76	Thank you, too. Ambassador Marjetka Uhan will give the position of Ambassador Group Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u77	Welcome to all those who accompany the adoption of the law on the Roma community, which has been tabled in the procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The law was created on the basis of a Charter of Good Purposes and confirmed documents by Slovenia, such as the Convention on the Protection of National Minorities and the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, and ultimately on the basis of the Slovenian Constitution, where it was stated that the situation and specific rights of the Roma community were governed by law. The law is really loose, but it is the basis for regulating the situation of Roma in Slovenia, even though by now the Roma community in Slovenia is dealt with in sectoral legislation. The 12 laws mention the Roma community and its special rights, at the same time it must be said for the public that all Slovenian legislation applies to all citizens, including members of the Roma community, because it is often heard that their laws do not apply. Of course they are, but they are not consistently implemented. However, it is pointless to generalise because we know that some Roma and other citizens are breaking the laws. To say that we don't need a law, that can be the case too, because in fact, the legislation we have so far could fix everything, but it doesn't. We cannot hide our eyes because, despite all the legal facts, the situation is not satisfactory both in the area of Roma organisation and education, employment, living conditions, as well as in the relations between them and other citizens, and especially there are great differences between them. In the Republic of Slovenia, there are still certain Roma groups living in a precarious situation, as regards housing and other conditions, and at the same time people, especially those living around them. And if one in Slovenia is self-evident to go to school, to be educated, to be employed, to others it is still not clear and they need to be helped to overcome this obstacle, as well as other people. The Union of Romani Slovenia, the Council Forum supports the law because they believe it will benefit them in particular, while Roma from Dolenjska and White Krajina oppose it. Criticism has flown on boards by some of their representatives, if they don't know what the law is making, that they don't need it, that they're not familiar with the content, and finally they're dissatisfied with the umbrella organization. While the priest of Dolenjska defended the law and had a positive view of the marriage. In New Slovenia, we will support the Government's proposal for a law because it provides the basis for regulating the situation and guarantees specific rights of the Roma community in the Republic of Slovenia, the responsibility of state authorities and local authorities for their implementation and the organisation of the Roma community to exercise their rights and duties. After all, the State and the local community have a competent interlocutor. So in New Slovenia we support the law, which is a kind of basis for ensuring the conditions for the placement of Roma settlements in space, their organisation at local and national level, the framework for education and employment, and this is also the basis for inclusion in society, acceptance and equal treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u78	Thank you, too. Ambassador Marjan Drofenik will become the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u79	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Director of the Government Office for Nationality, Member States and Members. I give an opinion on the point in the context of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware that regulation of the situation and rights in the law is, in fact, necessary in view of the fact that certain basic documents are binding on this country: a fundamental constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Constitution in its 65th Article, the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, ratified in 1998, and the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, ratified in 2000. The law must also be adopted because of the growing dissatisfaction of members of the Roma community and the majority population with the irregularity of certain areas, to which the affected municipalities and mayors have long been alert. It is necessary to take into account that the Roma community has been present in certain parts of the territory of today's Republic of Slovenia for centuries and that it is a community that is characterised by historical settlement in that territory. We can talk about rounded areas of settlement in Prekmurje, Dolenska, Bela krajina and Posavje. We can see that, like the picturesque population of Romani communities, there are also problems that are picturesque and complex, and there are also needs that differ from the village to the village, from the congregation to the congregation. In the drafting of the law, it seems very important that everyone concerned had the opportunity to propose and co-form a bill and that all the basic documents are taken into account. In our view, it should be borne in mind that the recognition of specific rights under the Constitution is a specific social group, which is a Roma community, so this is essentially a positive discrimination. It is not too much to point out, however, that the members of the Roma communities themselves need to be aware of these needs and to seek their own proper integration into society. As we know, the Office has taken into account opinions and proposals in drafting the bill, has collected 46 different opinions, opinions and proposals from various institutions, the Union of Roma Slovenia, various departments of the Faculty, civil organisations and has compared solutions to European comparable standards. As we know, the Roma Union fully supports the bill and also supports the proposal of the Roma Councilors' Forum, while the representatives of the Roma Community Association in Slovenia - Dolenjska, Bela Krajina - were of the opinion that the legislative process should be interrupted, as all Roma had no opportunity to speak about individual solutions. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are of the opinion that it is necessary to be aware in the drafting of the law that there is currently no country in Europe that would in any way regulate the situation of the Roma community in a comprehensive manner, and that members of the Roma communities must also be aware that they also have responsibilities towards the State and towards the majority of the people. In the law, it seems very important for us to draw a clear enough line of responsibility between state authorities and local authorities, but we support the novelty that the government commits itself to presenting specific solutions in the National Assembly as well. When adopting the law, it is necessary to take into account and be aware that the Roma theme will also have to continue to be regulated in the field rules, and the roofing law only establishes the basis. It seems to us that the law correctly defines and specifically defines the spatial arrangements for housing conditions and arrangements for the participation of Roma communities at local and national level. It seems right for us to see that funding has been eliminated in the past by misreported irregularities and that financing for all Roma societies and associations is provided on an equal footing. The law will also lay down one of the most important fundamental conditions for the successful inclusion of Roma in social life, notably in education and early inclusion of Roma children in pre-school education. Having regard to the addenda of the three parliamentary groups, the home committee and certain comments of the Legislative and Legal Service [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u80	Please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u81	We think the law is appropriate and we support it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u82	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be given by the Member of Bosniak Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! The law on, as you call it, the Roma community is in no way definitively solving the Roma issue in our country, and we will not support it in any way in the Slovenian National Party. The law, as proposed in the Slovenian National Party, seemed the most just to us, both to the Gypsies and to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. If you answer one question why a Gypsy in the Republic of Slovenia is more worthy or worthy of greater rights than I or any other citizen or citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, I will be very happy and grateful for this answer. I've heard quite a few words here today about positive discrimination. I call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, if positive discrimination is the one that leads us, that we must give the Gypsies special rights until the next reading, it is said, until the third reading of the law, to prepare an article or amendment of one of the articles in this law, which will give Gypsies a free building, a hundred square houses, a car at their request, to be exempted from the Penal Code of the Republic of Slovenia or even from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Then we will actually discriminate positively against them and give them what they are taking for themselves today. I would really appreciate it if you could tell me why these people are worth more than any other citizen or citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. After the last census, 3,246 inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia were identified as members of the Roma community. I am afraid that if we give them more rights and rights, this number will increase dramatically in the next census. The last case that took place in the Republic of Slovenia, the so-called Strojan family, until today after the Ministry of the Interior responded, the country, the Republic of Slovenia, spent on their migrations, resettlements, provision of space, hot water, food, clothing and more than 300 million Slovenian tolars! Can anyone tell me the name of the Slovenian family for which we spent the same, or about or more money in this country? I don't think so. But we're also giving them additional rights. What else should we give them?Oh, my God! In view of the fact that in 1995 and after the government's conclusions in 2004, these people were trying to assimilate themselves and offered them certain employment and education benefits, two Gypsies applied for a job where 45 jobs were awarded, one even came to the interview, and then he did not accept the job because it was too low and found that he deserved more than eight hours of regular work during the week. If this is the way of assimilation, these people won't accept it. These people don't want assimilation! He's got like 9% of gypsies who want to go to school, primary school, so they don't think they want to go to college. After primary school, less than 9%! We also give them rights, plus benefits, and we positively want to discriminate against them. Not least for those of you who don't know, Christopher Columbus, who discovered America, was a member of one of the gypsy tribes, but I don't remember giving him any different, bigger, better rights than finding America. No, but in Slovenia we go to enlightenment, democracy, and I don't know what yet, and we adopt a law that no one in Europe has. I will stress again: tell me the Slovenian family - I believe that 25 members have no Slovenian family - where this country has spent 300 million old Slovenian tolars, while members of this Slovenian family have been acquitted of crimes such as sexual assault on a minor and rape. Let me tell you! In the next census, this number will increase dramatically because, simply as far as we adopt this law, it is worth being a Gypsy in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Vice President! I know that you are as chairman of the Rules of Procedure, but from your work so far, it is not expected that you should point out to your fellow Member that we are discussing the law on the Roma community. And since the Roma community is also mentioned in the Constitution, it would be right to ensure, as President, that we are discussing a law that is the subject of the agenda, not something that has passed. I have already recommended to Mr Zagorec at the meeting of the Internal Policy Committee, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u86	Mrs. Potrat, I understand your procedural proposal, please finish!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u87	to look at the tenth volumes of the Encyclopaedia of Slovenia, where the name of the community we are talking about today is the established name of the Roma community. [[...]] And I would ask you to take this into account and to warn you if someone would use a different name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u88	Thank you for your thought. As you know, we're considering a roof law on the Roma community, and I believe that by your education you know the content of the word roof law. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Member Maja Shirca shall have the floor on behalf of the Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u89	Respectable few colleagues in the hall! The umbrella law on the Roma community needs to be understood as well as a certain political manoeuvre, delayed of course, but still. It was Ambrus. After the 2004 protest, on May 27th, when the former President of the opposition and the current Prime Minister expressed satisfaction and support and congratulations for the citizen courage of the Roma who protested, but had already promised or demanded such a law, we have it here today in 2007. But there will not be much benefit from this law, but there will be no great harm; neither will there be benefits because of modest solutions, but not because of good will. Because it is agreed with by representatives of the Roma fleet, as well as some others, unfortunately, not all Roma, we will really support the law in the group. However, there is something to be said. What does this marriage bring? For some, it is a joy to be able to tell how unique we are in Europe, which has such a law. Others have a deceptive belief that there will be no more Roma problems. Thirdly, it is a pleasure to defend the Constitution, which, in a uniform form, I warn, states that the situation and special rights of Roma people are regulated by one law. So it's clear by now. However, we have 12 if there are no more laws governing the question of Roma in the Republic of Slovenia. And what does this so - called roofing law do? It says exactly that we have so many and so many regulations, so many and so many legal regulations, so in a way there's a collophone, it's said, there's a sum, there's a list and an introduction to the regulation so far. Therefore, at least in the first part, it is very democratic in principle, general. Logically, the specifics are enshrined in the sectoral legislation and the resulting regulations. In short, it's not good if the law is adopted as an alibi. In this case, for insufficient and insufficiently effective implementation of the current rules. And it's not just about mine or our doubts. The profession also doubts the usefulness of global, supervisory laws that want to solve everything and at the same time nothing. In the second part, however, the marriage is more tangible. It brings the organisational link between the Roma, which enables more binding dialogue of Roma organisations with power, which is not bad, especially if our comments on the appointment and functioning of the Council are also taken into account. It also provides for a dangerous provision that the State, instead of the local communities, may intervene in municipal spatial acts with a certain acceleration. Under this law, the State will also be able to act in cases where there is a serious health threat, if there is too much and lasting disturbance to public order, as we know that we have not clarified on the competent committees why this is happening, and if there is a permanent threat to the environment, or if there is a conflict between the population. Although most of this can already be done by the State, whether it is Roma or someone else, these solutions in Article 5 can be seen as dangerous, as they can also lead to additional segregation. But the key question is the financial implications. It is interesting that some items in the budget reduce funding for Roma activity. Let's see, for example, the Ministry of Culture - in 2008 I have less resources than in 2007, for the old 760 million tolars, in the year when we will preside over the European Union under the slogan "Cultural diversity". For example, the Ministry of Education is only about raising an old million, a pardon for 8 million, while for work for only one million, there is actually an increase in expenses, remittances at the Nationality Office. In short, the law on the Roma community carries a lot of blind maneuvers, offers a lot of what already exists, so its utility is questionable, but because it pleases the Roma, because the Roma themselves see the opportunity to move forward, perhaps even at a symbolic level, we will not deny it, and we will measure its ethics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u90	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. However, we are moving on to a debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which I will lead on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled to 27.3 So I am putting Article 10 into discussion and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. [[..]] I'm asking you to report to the debate. Here you go. The text is by Mr Happy Friend, Happy Hvauc, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u91	The first part was right. Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I will not support this amendment relating to Article 10 or Article 10(1) of this amendment. First of all, I will refer to the explanation, which is why the proponents in the explanation of this amendment say that Article 10 does not fully define the composition of the Council, which could lead to difficulties in appointing members. First of all, I don't agree with this explanation. Article 10 clearly states that 14 representatives are appointed by the Union of Roma Slovenia. This is the legitimate association of Roma, which has its own rules organised in accordance with the law which has the legitimate right to adopt its rules and determine how it will elect its representatives. Thus, I see no problems here, and even less problems are raised in the second part, which says that 7 representatives from the Roma community in the holy self-government local communities are elected by secret ballot from among themselves - these same representatives. And, of course, it is even more precise that each representative shall have 7 votes in this vote, with only one vote to each candidate. And also, in the world, there are those representatives who will or who have received the most votes. So I think the election is perfectly precise. Otherwise, on the proposal itself, I would have some comments. In the amendment proposal, the proposers propose that the government appoint these 14 members on a proposal from the Roma associations and associations. I think a lot of other questions are opening up here. First, why the government, why not the Roma themselves. Why would the government somehow get involved in this appointment? In this national assembly, we have heard many times that the government is involved in the economy and in TV and so on. Why would this amendment actually involve the government in some autonomous decision of this Roma community? Then we come up with some purely technical problems. Besides, I don't know how many of these societies are in Slovenia. What if the company is more than seven? Who will decide which representatives or associations will not be represented in this world? What if they have societies and they certainly have a different number of members? What does that mean? Those who have more members will have more representatives, those who have fewer will have fewer. Who's gonna make that decision? Why? So I think that this kind of arrangement actually only brings more complications. In fact, as a colleague spoke before me, such an amendment would really legitimize some patronizing attitude towards the Roma in this law and also rob them of part of their autonomy or autonomy. That's why I can't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u92	Thank you, too. Now he has the word Lucky Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! [[Mrs. Majda Potter is already looking at what I'm about to say.]] Yeah, it says in another notebook that gypsy is a perfectly normal word. That is what Mr Buchar said, if you have listened to him, the author of the constitution. So let's just read something else. Look, as much attention as we've given to the gypsies during this period, I don't think anyone has ever been involved in our country. So much money for one family - it's not on the flight either. I think it's rare, but if you do, you get four winners. And this amendment, you know, is totally unnecessary. If it stays the way it is, constructiveness will manifest itself in all its brilliance, i.e. gypsy constructive decision-making. I believe they'll have a hard time taking care of everything there. In fact, there will be no consensus, but these sessions will be long, as long as they do not fall asleep from tiredness. When it comes to the recognition of specific rights of a community, as has been said - see, I fully agree that we are guaranteeing them rights in the fields of social, education and so on. What about 45,000 of our poor Slovenians living on the brink of poverty, 89,000 unemployed? Are they not worthy of special constitutional rights? Why are we such a slave nation, we can't take care of ourselves, we can't take care of our own and we can give the stranger everything? This is also evident when we divide the boundary and the earth, and we can easily measure it to others. I'm in favour of the gypsies having the same rights as I have, but then they have to take good care of their children, and I had to, if I didn't, be criminally responsible before the law. I also had to register a car every year and pay all the taxes - they don't need it. Let's get this straight. Why don't we just get them used to it or, roughly speaking, assimilate them and tell them that they live here in a country where laws also apply, that they can't only get rights, that they have to reciprocate duties and obligations. We're not going to solve anything with this law. And look, the smart guys already figured out it's good to be a gypsy. A list of the definition of who is who, in fact, showed that Gypsies are actually born faster than mushrooms grow in the rain, but I believe that there are some among them that have nothing to do with Gypsies, but they have decided to do it because it is profitable. No one checks on them for the granting of a social allowance, you sign up, you get a lifetime of life; no one drags them in court if they steal and are not responsible for other crimes, but they can also borrow crops in the neighbouring country if they, the police, can't act. When people all over Slovenia, not only where the protests were, realize that we are doing such wrongs to them, they will also come to the National Assembly and then we will step among them, and those who defend the Gypsies will go to the Gypsies.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u94	Thank you. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u95	Thank you very much. It is important to note what this amendment brings when compared to the bill. First of all, I should point out that all the bodies formed in this law should benefit the Roma community, but above all, we must give all organised communities the opportunity to participate in the composition of the bodies and, above all, in the composition of the Council. And what is the difference between our proposal and the present law? Indeed, the present law speaks of how this world is made up and how this world is formed, but it speaks only of the Union of Roma and representatives of Roma communities, while we speak or open up the possibility for others, not just for one union. We say that the government appoints, approves this world on a proposal from the societies and alliances of the Roma. So we're talking in plural and we're talking about societies. Indeed, we know that most of the societies, the Roma societies, are covered, connected to the Roma, but yet a roofed union of the Roma, but we never know what tomorrow will bring, here we can do with one or more connections. For this reason, we leave only the possibility of greater openness, but what is most important — the appointment of a government — is an organizational or logical one, which, if you look at the transitional provisions in this law, greatly complicates the appointment of this world. First, they give the office a chance to set it up, and then it comes up with some kind of inertia that could lead to problems, so we used a certain analogy. However, the second paragraph we deleted or entered a new text that gives this world, which is defined by its tasks, more options than it actually has - and this seems to be of key importance to us. For the key, for example, is the legal power of the Roma is this government programme, which is now found in Article 6 of the Law. In short, the government will draw up a programme of measures, we will monitor it, you and the second and third will be involved in this programme of action, but this world should also be present. And this addition of ours seems crucial to us, because the world, if you look at it now, what does it do? Addressing the issue, giving the proposal, promoting activities, developing, maintaining a shortcut, are some guidelines that are not as binding as if they were correcting Article 10 and saying that this Council gives an opinion - I warn you, not consent, but that this Council gives an opinion on the programme of action in the entire area of Roma activity under this Act. This seems very important to us that this work programme of the government, which will be a kind of code. Some wanted to, and I didn't mind having a resolution or some national plan, which, for example, is now sucked into this Article 6 through the action programmes. However, if we have the world as the most representative organ of the Roma in Slovenia, then this world should also have more operational capacity or more power by giving an opinion on the programme, that is to say, the pot, the thirsty, and its opinion, which I think must be very, very important for each government. After all, it is a representative body at the highest level, consisting of 21 members, as we said, of 14 of our wishes named by the Roma associations and associations, by government version only of the unions or of 7 representatives of the Roma communities in the holy self-governance local communities. This seems reasonable to us, and if there is any good will, I think it is in the interest of the Roma to participate more than they can. I apologize if I take this opportunity to express my regret that we do not have the opportunity to correct Article 2 on the table, which is unfortunately closed. The one we find very questionable, if not deformed, article - just a second, if you allow - is Article 5, which stipulates that the planning of some spatial arrangement is transferred to the government level. We believe that this is unnecessary, unnecessary regulation, that this regulation is already absorbed in existing spatial legislation, even those that are being or are coming and are being confirmed these days. However, a warning - and also in this context - I think it is necessary that the Roma world is significantly more present in the government's programme of action - to warn that Article 5(3) is very controversial and possibly dangerous and will also cause certain bulwarks in the future. And this has already been pointed out by the Law-Legal Service, what it has in here to do a disturbance to public order and peace. And I think, in the end, it's not appropriate to try to influence yourself by regulating spatial arrangements, or even to restrict or even move, say, certain people from certain areas where they are not wanted. And I repeat, it is not possible to use spatial planning instruments to solve some other mysteries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u96	Thank you, too. I'm reopening the application procedure. Here you go, please. Member Eva Irgle has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. First, if I am not mistaken, we are considering the amendment to Article 10 rather than Article 5 contained in the Romani law. I must say that I myself will not support this amendment to Article 10 tabled by a group of unrelated Members, where they propose that members of the Council of Roma Communities be appointed by the Government. I'll make it short. It seems to me that membership in an organization that is intended, in fact, for the Roma community, for some of the interests of the Roma community, would be affected by the government or its involvement or the appointment of members of this Council. You have repeatedly repeated over the past few months, as colleague Hvauc has already said, that this government is involved in not knowing what things are all about. Today, when it gives freeway to the Roma organisation, when it wants to actively participate in the formulation of Roma policymaking, you take this opportunity away from them. It seems to me that the adoption of such an amendment by the Roma community in the first place would show great mistrust. You have always advocated such and different rights for yourself, you have trusted them very much, and today this Roma community cannot even form its own structure. So you don't trust them on this question. That's why I can't support this amendment either.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Member Geza Juban has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Chairman. I have a clear opinion based on the verification of the representatives of the Roma communities. And this opinion goes in this direction, but unfortunately I will not support this amendment to Article 10. It is true that it puts us in one or the other direction of the debate, and I do not particularly support the work of reopening insults against the Roma and so on. The reason that I think the government solution of amended Article 10 is better, which is not the best, but I still think it is better, for the following reasons. This solution is important for the Roma, who are organised as they are, and we see that their organisation occasionally causes them problems. And we make it as complicated as possible for the composition and elections in the world of the Roma community, and then we can also cause a number of problems in the future, more problems in this process. The second problem is that perhaps it is unusual for the current government to propose - what colleagues have also mentioned and it would be good that this has also led to other stories, as regards the media, the economy and so on, that the government withdraws from these procedures, although it is not entirely out of the question that this composition can also depend on the influence of the current governing policy. The next thing that seems important or even dangerous to me, which is also happening, and from that end of Slovenia, most of these efforts to establish new alliances do not support us, because it seems to me that this is pointless, unproductive, because most of the initiatives in this type of work occur because of the interest in money sharing. But since that is not the case, then I see no reason to write in the law that more alliances could propose members to the world, and for the time being, I think it is a better solution for us to have one relationship and to agree within this relationship who their representatives are, because there are enough opportunities along this path, and then to get their representatives. I think that there have already been arguments that very quickly someone can encourage some societies that are organised in one way or another, even in some way, as I was told, a dart of events, and we are going to set up, organise ourselves in our own direction, and we want to have our representatives, and we know roughly what these representatives are going to do. I think these solutions may be a little dangerous, although I'm sure they're well-intentioned in this amendment. Nevertheless, I say that I think that the solution that is better in the current amended Article 10 of the bill, and I will oppose this amendment, which I think could be fine as it has already been written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u100	Thank you, too. The word is Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. Thank you for confirming me in my opinions and opinions on how you're going to act. I would like to express my position on the amendment to Article 10. I have in my hands a magnetogram of the Commission's petitions session and of human rights and equal opportunities, which, as an interested working body, considered the proposal of the law. And from this magnetogram I can tell you or read if you want, or you will read for yourself that the representative of the Roma Councilors' Forum objected precisely to the way in which the world of the Roma community was formed, because he felt that the distinction in the composition of the 21-member world was unacceptable. I understand that the legislator wanted to find a representative interlocutor in order to better regulate the Roma theme, but I must stress in this particular way that I also do not deny the merit of the Union of Roma Slovenia, which this connection has gained in its work so far. However, it must be counted that the community - including the minority - can eventually receive different forms of organisation. It should also be borne in mind that the Union of Roma Slovenia has formed from a strong social activity. The fundamental activity of societies was mainly to preserve the cultural identity of the Roma community and to develop this identity. We are also talking now about the possibility of political participation of the Roma community. This is the application of the Romani councillor who is elected in 19 municipalities. And here it must be pointed out that the Roma councillors have already received their mandate by elections and have been given, in my most democratic way, a mandate to represent the Roma community. How this mandate is given to representatives in societies is linked to their social rules. In this material, which I have already discussed, I read in the report by Dr. Vera Klopčič that it was then, in 2004 at the Slovenian 22 Roma associations, which were included in the Union of Roma Slovenia. Now there are more of these societies, not just 22. They are also emerging, and it must also be opened that it is probably not always possible to count on the perfect sound within the Roma community. Recently, I was at the opening of the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All, and the blind representative of the disabled said why you are so scandalous about the fact that we do not always have the same opinion. We are the same as everyone else, we have different opinions, different views on things. And even the Roma community can be expected to have different views and ideas about this in different parts, as well as different expectations and different fears. And now we're on it. Who on their behalf will be involved and an accomplice to the Government in dealing with individual issues? Someone said earlier, I think you were a respected colleague of Juban, that some things just can't depend solely on the government's direction and willingness. This is the case, even in the local community, so it may also depend on the policy of a local community. And when the state intervenes in the handling of individual issues across local communities, however, this is also related to the ideas of this current political or current political authority on what he has in mind, how some things should be regulated. And I must admit that because of some of this government's moves, my trust is not boundless. And I'm afraid the trust of some other group of people is not boundless. I am not saying that the arrangement in the amendment is excellent and that I can accept it without any doubt. But it seems better to me just because it takes into account this possibility that these representative entities representing the Roma community can also be more. And it takes into account the same way of appointing representatives, both the Union of Roma Slovenia and the Roma saints. Now I ask you, "How many of you can tell by what principle will the representatives of the Roma saints be loved?" Between 19 of them, 7 will be elected by secret ballot and the second paragraph will speak about it. That is why I support this amendment because it deletes the second paragraph of Article 10, which speaks of the election of Roma saints. Thus, there remains an election for the Roma councillors in the 10th Article, and for the representatives of the Union of Roma Slovenia, the appointment remains. And it is not the comment that the saints of the Forum of Roma Saints have had with, I think, the most experienced among them, that is with Mr Rudaš at the head. And that's why I don't support the solution, which is now in Article 10, which I think is better. It also seems good to me, of course, that the seventh paragraph complements the part that speaks of the powers of the 21 - article world. In order not to let everything else go unimportant and that the opinion of the Roma saints or representatives of the Roma community is not important. Of course it is, how important it is. Because they will also have the opportunity to give opinions on programmes of vital importance to the lives of the Roma community. But when we talk about the life of the Roma community in Slovenia, then it seems to me that we forget some things or don't want to know them. When we talk about how the Roma community is privileged, let me quote just a few demographic statistics from the 2002 census. The majority of the population are considered to be concerned about demographic data because the proportion of the young population is decreasing. Well, for the Roma population, of course, it can be said that the proportion of adolescents and children is 40%, which is significantly higher than the majority population. But if we go to look at what the distribution is, so here, to be very precise, let's say the percentage of children in the group remained at the age of 15 is 17.3% and the share of the Roma population is 40.3%. So the Roma population is an extremely young population, even in this structure between 18 and 40 years there is no significant difference in the proportion of the majority population, where 41.2%, the Roma population 40.7 And now I'm coming up with that data, which is talking about what the expected age is and what the situation in which the Roma live is really like. This is the proportion over the age of 65 years, and in the Roma group this percentage is 1.7 for the majority of the population is 13%. If you believe that such an arrangement comes from the good life and orderly living conditions in which Roma live, then it is necessary for some specific expertise and find experts who will be able to confirm such a thesis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u102	Thank you, too. The Director of the Office shall be involved in the debate. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I just want to explain some things about the composition. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u104	If you get up.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u105	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u106	Please get up.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u107	I'm sorry. In particular, the Union of Roma Slovenia was granted the status of State interlocutor in 2003 and 2004, when the Secretary-General adopted a special decision to alert all state authorities, the Ministry, that the Roma Union is also a legal and formal interlocutor of all state authorities in the handling of matters concerning the Roma communities in the Republic of Slovenia. Let me also point out that in organising it, I agree with my colleague that the Institute of the Roma Councilors works within the framework of the Union of Roma Slovenians, this means that it is a special body which must act in accordance with the Statutes of the Union of Roma Slovenians and that in this case the legislator has been instrumental in this regard, to take account of the Forum of Roma Councils, because, strictly speaking, he could only take into account the Union of Roma Slovenia, but in fact also felt the need to actively include them in participation at the national level, because their role, as you have found, is primarily at the local level and there, to participate actively in the regulation of the Roma topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u108	Thank you, too. I'm opening a new application circuit. Here you go. Member Geza Juban has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Chairman. Once again, I will say that paragraph 7 sets out what powers or tasks this Council has: questions relating to the interests and situation of the Roma community, proposals to the competent authorities, promotion of activities to preserve language and culture, promotion of cultural, information, publishing and other activities, and contacts with other Roma in other countries. And because of these tasks, choosing people into the Council of the Roma Community in a way like this here, I have said earlier that I do not think it is the best, but more appropriate, because I think it is simpler. It may not be too much to say that I know this population, but that part of the population in Slovenia, which represents a smaller problem in Slovenia than those that present this population problem, or that Roma in our part of Slovenia are relatively well organized to be at a certain level and to function, are integrated into the rest of the population and so on. I've known them since I was a kid, and I'm fine with them today, in different ways, for certain reasons. In short, I imagine that I know them and that this way of choosing their representatives into the world is appropriate for them. I'll tell you the reasons one more time. As soon as we widen the issue and give more connections, we have produced a new problem that is already present and a desire that will not produce results. Some new relationship or relationship won't bring what they want if we follow their interests. The system is getting complicated. Anyway, we have 21 and no more, and that's 14 plus 7 and no more. These numbers are left with us, that's what's left. If we include societies in addition to the Roma Union, it is complicated, it is more difficult. And then the rest, representatives in the world of self-government. The easier the matter is, the easier things are done and less problems are left behind, less dissatisfaction. And because of this, I feel that this solution, which is in this proposed article and is less close to the amendment and the arguments in this regard, is not better for me than for me to be convinced that this solution is better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u110	Thank you, too. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u111	Thank you for your word. Dear President! I'm going to start, even though it's an amendment, and I want everyone to clear their thresholds first, and then give an impression to others. Not long ago, a member of the parliamentary group, who so enthusiastically advocates the word Roma, wrote a song where the word Gypsy is. Not long ago, or a little while ago, a mayor of this parliamentary group rejected Roma in his congregation and also rejected them because he listened to the majority opinion of the citizens he represented. And even further back, half of this parliamentary group danced on a song in a pre-election meeting somewhere in northeastern Slovenia, on a song covering the word gypsy. Now, dual morality seems to be worse than gypsy blood. As far as the amendment is concerned, I will say, "I am alone and we will not support the amendment in the Slovenian National Party." We will not support it because, as far as this law, as it is known as the House, those who follow constitutional provisions and cover according to your conduct the Roma problem, although I claim that Roma are only one part of the Gypsy and there are also Sinti, which some have also identified and said, we are civilised, and for them you write the law and those who are civilised oppose this law. But we would like to, and now we are only writing the law for one segment of the gypsies in this country. For just one segment, we only write for the Roma and make them different. You who support this law make them different. Although you're saying that we, I don't know what difference we make between people and I don't know what we do yet, but you who support this law make them different from Slovenian citizens. I don't know why. I wish we were all the same in this country, but when we adopt this law and this amendment, you make them different. It seems to me that, as much as they're as cohesive as you say themselves, they're so united that there's no friction between them, they all represent only those in their societies, when they started, they were still societies, and you're saying about maintaining culture and, I don't know, habits. I don't know, the cultures and customs of individual representatives of individual nationalities and minorities are different. If they are so united, then I think they will easily elect these representatives, who will represent the Roma Union and the Roma Union, because they are united, because we cover the whole segment, why would we include some other societies, what are you trying to tell me that there are Roma, Gypsy or Sinti societies that have another culture, some other ways, no, with the Union of Roma Slovenia we have captured everything you believe. I don't know what else you'd like to do if you claim for yourself that there are only Roma in this country, that Sintov is gone, and we who are talking about the common tribe of Gypsies who have moved here and there across this Europe and the world, then I don't know, it seems to me that it is one double moral as in the case in which you actually think I'm using a word, a specific word of Gypsies. This double morale is showing up with you all the time, I told you. Some of the MPs from your party, except those who came afterwards, danced at this election meeting, no one turned against the singer and said, "Wait a minute, you're talking a lot, and you're using bad words." No, no, no, they just kept dancing. And today, you have all the saintly lights on your head, and I don't know what you're popularizing here. In this country, there are Sinti in addition to the Roma, and all together are Gypsies. And I'm going to oppose the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Member Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go. I'm sorry, colleague Weber, my mistake. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u113	Yeah, there's a lot of ignorance or ignorance, and obviously that's why there's a lack of clarity about what it means if the government calls an organ. In this case, the Government confirms what the Roma themselves have agreed, this is seen in the transitional provisions, this is clearly written where, and I also agree with this that the Union of Roma Slovenia appoints its representatives in the world and that representatives of the Roma communities in the holy self-government local communities elect their representatives from among themselves into the world. In short, it's not the government that now, according to some strange logic, attributes that we want her to collect who has to come into this 21-member body, no, but the government gives the legitimacy to this body. This, too, seems to have been understood differently by my colleague Juban. The Legitimite is necessary, because otherwise this organ is now somehow hanging. The President of the Office of the National Communities will be in favour of the first meeting and will call for this process to be initiated in the transitional provisions, in short. Then this process will just hang as it hangs. They're going to elect a president, and if he leaves, another one will come along and so on. But that is what humbles this body that does not have and because it does not have such a government certificate. And here we wanted, like the National Council for Culture, the High Council for Education, where decision-making and gathering of people in a different way is taking place, but here we would decide for ourselves who will be members of this body and the Government would, as I say, sign it under this authority. And it doesn't matter why. Why? Because this body still has a certain obligation to the authorities. We want to extend them with a second amendment to this amendment, which we think is even more important than we see here today. But if this government has nothing to do, as we have heard, why does it have to give a transitional consent to the rules of procedure of this world and even to the meetings and costs of participation at the meetings of the world, then this government does not need to do anything about this world. Some logic, and if you look at how other organs work, or at least those where the interests of affected users, affected in terms of users, are tanged, then it makes sense for the government to be recognized here. Maybe she doesn't recognize herself because she doesn't choose who's in there and who's not in there. Both in your proposal and in our proposal, this autonomy is absolutely certain, so, however, it seems logical to me that this legitimacy is also given at the level of the Government in an absolutely positive sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Janko Vebra.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. In view of the tasks that the Council of the Roma Community will have under this law, I believe that we are actually talking about a body that is even a question if necessary. Indeed, in my view, the Union of the Roma Community already has these powers. To address issues relating to the interests, situation and rights of the Roma community, it gives proposals and initiatives to the upcoming authorities, it encourages activities to preserve the Roma language, culture and so on. In fact, we are talking about an uncleaned text of a law that does not actually approach the right solution. And if I limit myself to just the 10th article, which speaks of the world of the Roma community. It consists, as proposed by the Government, of 14 representatives of the Union of the Roma Community and 7 representatives of the saints in the municipal councils - that is, the Roma saints. The question is raised as to what of those Roma who live in congregations that do not have an elected Roma councillor or are not listed in the Law on Local Self-Government as municipalities that have Roma in their midst. Who's gonna solve the problem in those environments? How to involve these Roma in the possibility of taking initiatives, proposals and so on. In short, if we are talking about the Council of the Romani Community, then this Council should also have a way of coming to this body by representatives of the Roma community who are not mentioned, for example, as municipalities in the Law on Local Self-Government. On the other hand, this amendment of the Non-Aligned Members is a little closer to such thinking because it also tries to reach societies that can be organised in any congregation and gives the opportunity to actually come to this body that is supposed to be taking these initiatives. Of course, it may still be the uncleared text of this amendment as well as, as I have already said, of the proposed text, but nevertheless, I think it is extremely important that, if we are talking about the world, we should also consider how to integrate the wider Roma circle into this body. I have a feeling that this amendment of the Non-Aligned Members is closer to this solution than what is enshrined in the law. Of course, the procedure is such that it is probably necessary to clear not only the text of this Article but also a number of others in this passage. Unfortunately, this has not been done, so I think we will have much to talk about in the future, that we can really get an appropriate law at some point that responds to the public's interests in the municipalities and also to the interests of the Roma in the individual environments where they live. But this, it seems, will have to be done a little bit later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening the procedure, please. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u117	Thank you. I have already said in my delegation's opinion that more questions have been asked or raised in this law than we have found appropriate answers. That is why we have been very attentive to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which has opened or recalled similar things that have opened up to us. As the membership of the Roma community is not defined, regardless of this Article 10 or the amendment, the open question of the participation of those Roma who, under our legislation, do not belong to a group of indigenous Roma. My colleague Webber has just pointed to you. If you go to see statistics, there is even more in the urban settings of Roma, which are also organised in Roma societies, than statistics show for those municipalities with Roma saints. Both Article 10 and the proposed amendment do not address the weakness that the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service points to, that is, the question of the criteria for determining representativeness. However, it is possible to refer to the fact that the Secretary-General of the Government has already appointed the Roma Union as an interlocutor. However, if the umbrella law is, if some organisational structures are regulated, then the criteria for representativeness should be laid down. I do not claim that the proposed amendment is good, but it is good at least one element to which the representative of the Forum of Roma Councilors pointed out that they should be named in the world in the same way, either elected in the same way or appointed in the same way, all those 21 members and therefore I support it. In addition to the Forum of Roma Councillors, the Roma Forum also operates within the framework of the Roma Union. These did not receive any special status or special treatment. Nor has that deficiency been remedied in Article 10, to which the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out that if the powers already mentioned are to be listed. In particular, it seems to me that this "delivery of other tasks under the law" is somehow relativising and extending the scope of the tasks on which the Council of the Roma Community can decide. Therefore, there are things that have remained open, but I think the most important point and the most important point that I have in this law is that there are still comments that there are different views on the law, that some have not, in their opinion, had sufficient open opportunities and opportunities to comment, that we should now leave aside or that these comments would be taken into account and incorporated into law, but that we insist in the Group of Social Democrats that the Roma community should be a subject. However, this entity is diverse, has different views on things and has not all been equally involved in the law-making process and, given the different integration into the majority population, in the environment, given the different status or level of the living culture, it would be good to hear the voice of those living in different circumstances than perhaps those who have already managed to find a greater sound to the environment in which they live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u118	Member Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I will not be long, but even though I am listening to this debate, I do not think that we all understand the proposed amendment. I think this article in the proposal is perfectly fine. Point 1 tells us what the structure of this world is and point 2 how Roma saints, I do not know how many of them are in Slovenia, elect 7 members to vote in secret. This seems to me the most democratic way to elect the right representatives of the Roma in local communities. The amendment, which, speaking of it, for the first time, I do not like to involve the government here, that the government is the arbitrator who decides who will be in this world. And now, if I read this amendment, it means the following: the Council consists of 21 members, 14 members of the government appoints on the proposal of the Roma associations and unions, O. For 7 members, the Government of all representatives of the Roma communities shall be appointed by the Council of the Self-Governmental Local Communities referred to in Article 7 of this Act. [[..]] What criterion will the government now choose? As I understand Mrs Shirca, she is speaking on a proposal, as I said, on the proposal of the Roma associations and associations. So, if so, then this should be stressed that the Government, on a proposal, appoints so many and so many representatives from Roma representatives in local communities. So I think that the government here has nothing to do to interfere with the election of representatives of the Roma saints and that it is their obligation and mission to do it in the most democratic way, and these are secret elections, and they also elect those 7 representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? We're opening the procedure. Here you go. Member Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u121	Thank you. I promise you one last time. Even if it hadn't been for the first time, it would probably have been the same vote as it might have been wrong. If we look at the different meetings of the Roma community at the level of the country, then those who know their faces will notice that five or seven people will always appear there and so will be in the future. In this proposal we will have an additional 14, a total of 21, where there will be some new faces, new representatives who, in my opinion, can cover the interests referred to in paragraph 7 of this Article or the Roma community of the whole country of Slovenia. I think this number is enough. And the expansion of the appointment of these 21 representatives can, in my opinion, complicate everything or look for a simpler form - only in this is my problem. Whether the Government plays a more important or less important or fair or unfair role here, I don't mind that much in this proposal of colleagues. I'm looking for a much simpler form because I know the situation and their desires. Of course, some more democratic, broader options may also be expressed in the middle, but in the end the same thing will happen. But I cannot help but say something about the rise of Roma and Roma communities. With this, of course, when those of us who are overly discussing this issue do not strengthen our political positions, what colleagues are doing. However, I see much difference in whether the expression Roma or Gypsy is used in direct communication, when we are being respectful or trying to offend someone. The second is the cultural form, when we refer to gypsy music, gypsy village, gypsy food, which is still often used in our country, and there is nothing to be offended about. Although I claim that the Roma differ in many ways from the majority people, there are many approaches to it, in language, in music, in dress, in many ways, which is why we also adopt this law, which is the umbrella of the Law on the Roma Community and, of course, I find it difficult to accept me when it comes to excessive insults. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u122	Thank you, too. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u123	Thank you. We are prisoners of this amendment. Everyone would prefer to talk about something else in this law, which is not and what we all have pointed out, almost the majority of representatives and representatives of the parliamentary groups. But then we deal with the details, and unfortunately, we understand each other in our own way. I understand that we have different views on matter, but it is difficult to understand that we have different views on legal matters or on words that are written down or that carry some legal matter, and I repeat in our amendment that there will be no misunderstandings, talking about that the Government is, I apologize, "jegen" to confirm something that the Roma themselves agree on, not only in this regard, but also on societies and on any other relations, and also, see Article 16 of the transitional provisions, and the representatives of the Roma themselves agree on in local self-government councils. I am saying that it is only an additional legitimacy that the Government would put into decisions, a separate autonomous decision of the Roma. But I must stress, this is not a key issue of this law. The key problem of this law is also the financial consequences, the new obligations of municipalities which are not specified. The new money, the only one, I will say, is logically more visible than the new money coming to the National Community Office, without any clarity on how it will be shared, to whom it will be intended, to what it will go, or whether it will be distributed analogously, as it is now, under certain ministries or under existing legislation, 12, 13 laws dictate this. Whether he will go, as has been said, to the competent working bodies, especially representatives of the Peace Institute, possibly officials or non-Romania, or to the activities of the work of a bureaucratic nature, not to the programme and not to those which would heal the painful problems of the Roma. Why is there such a small supplement and growth in the 2007 budget for the Ministry of Education in 2008? Why is the minimum increase to such a minimum at the Ministry of Labour? I said in the year when we will talk to Europe under the slogan "cultural diversity" and when we will even be conducting this dialogue, the funds for the Roma are shrinking. They are being reduced from very small resources. In fact, the Ministry of Culture has only €83,000 or €19 million for 2007 and €80,000 for 2008. And this is where the money goes down. If this law were to be taken under duress in what it brings in life and which would also bring about in the reorganisation of all those pains that have arisen, especially in the face of equilibria and inconsistencies and inconsistencies and difficulties recently in and around Ambrus, then this discourse would be significantly more demanding and of course would not be limited to the question of representation in the world, and in particular would be significantly more responsible. That didn't go away. And that's the problem. Therefore, I can only repeat what I said at the outset about how it will live in practice and what effects it will have. And for this reason, I repeat that I fear that this is a blind manoeuvre when we are all satisfied that we have a law and its effects will be difficult to perceive in life, as will any other law, such as the law on the registration of same-sex partnerships. It was pure euphoria, however, that we can be commended in Europe when we received this law, which is, as it were, useless or already unfriendly in the Constitutional Court or users, so that they do not use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u124	Thank you. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u125	Thank you once again for the word, Madam President. I must say that given that only representatives of the Slovenian National Party use the word Gypsy, I am very sorry if anyone takes this as an insult, but I think it is a subjective assessment of how someone uses this word. And if someone looks at it subjectively and thinks it when I say it or any of my colleagues say it as an insult, it's his personal problem. When I listen to this amendment, to whom all should be included, to all the Roma societies we know, I must say that, unlike some who speak more than they actually live here, I have lived close to three such societies. The first company was the Romani Society for the Distribution of Drinks, one company was called the Gygan Sports Company, but one company was, if I am not mistaken, and I do not hold to the exact word, I think that the "Romanian Society for the Retail of Textiles at the Shop Fair" in Maribor. Believe me, we would not like to include these three societies or any others in the politics of Slovenian public life. And when I hear who you'd like to involve, sometimes I justifiably wonder who you're representing in this House. Remember, this is not the least of all still the Slovenian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u126	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Comrade Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I am also a little surprised by the mental - health care that some here express at the expense of the Roma community. What must be taken up, but I claim that this is a matter of mental and largely hypocrisy from the mouth of some. For if it were not hypocrisy, it would not have happened that their fellow Members would then organise a boycott or call for barricades against the Roma and so on. In the course of the past year's events, they have been limited, the ambrusses have been quite organised on the basis of the scenario, in my opinion, by the instigation of riots, of extraordinary things, only with the aim of destroying the current authority on this basis. This script and those experiments didn't make you happy. But they were certainly well organized, and because of this amendment, this patronage and mental care, how each society should be involved and I don't know what, I find very strange, unfair and hypocritical. I believe that, as the law now states, it is almost best - that part of this world of the Roma community is elected in the internal elections of this community. Now many question how the Roma will choose for themselves. And now you're involving the government. And once again, just as these excesses were organized and inspired at the time, they were now trying to paralyze the world of the Roma community. I always say, at least one good result was this inspiration, organization and all that happened in Ambrus had - that the Slovenian public could understand how quickly it was possible to organize the village guards, which some here always said were the beginning of a collaboration, once during World War II. There was no one dead, but there was half of Dolenjska under the village guards and now you can see how normal it was when the VOS carried out the liquidations, of course they were in the evening of the village guard. And at the same time, think a little bit about what you've been promoting this year, in the last year, what things you've been upsetting. And that's why I'm begging you to stop. To stop parasiteizing in this law, which is well prepared, which finally brings a step towards the fact that the Roma community will also have a legal basis for its organisation and will thus be so much more recognised and recognised in the Slovenian public and the community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u128	Thank you, too. Can we close the debate slowly? Thank you. So since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 9th agenda. This concludes this agenda item. And before I break the agenda, I'm giving it procedurally to my colleague, Skolcz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I, Mr. Vice President, may not have raised my hand right away, but I'm sure before you've finished. But I wanted to talk to you about things that were spoken by my colleague Jerovšek and which certainly do not contribute to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u130	My colleague, I closed the debate, and then you called, and this time I won't let you talk about the matter. Thank you very much. Please allow us to proceed. So, as a matter of fact, I'm breaking up with this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organisation and Financing of Education and Education. We have an estimated 50 minutes for this point. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with Mr Bojan Kontic, the first-signed. With regard to this law, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I give the floor first to the representative, the proposed law to Mr Bojan Kontić for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In 1996, the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education provides that educational institutions, in addition to educational and educational activities, shall carry out support activities on their own, such as accounting, legal and cadre activities, food organisation and maintenance and, of course, the cleaning of premises. The legal requirements in specific areas of support activities are increasing, and this represents an excessive burden on schools. As a result, schools, and in one case the local community, i.e. the municipality, have established public institutions in Slovenia to carry out the accompanying activities of schools, in particular in the field of accounting. The government strategy adopted in 2005 also provides for the creation of common accounting services for the public sector, thus achieving greater professionalism in the implementation of these activities, in particular by rationalising or reducing costs. At the same time, it is a privilege for the school’s management to be more dedicated to the basics of activity, that is, teaching work. At the same time, cooperation in the world of institutions carrying out so-called support activities enables them to control the operations of the institutions they have established. The aim of the proposer of these amendments to the law is to arrange for the financing of public institutions carrying out accompanying activities of educational institutions directly from the State budget. This is not possible now, according to the competent ministry. In doing so, I would like to point out that all the postponements of the proposal under consideration, together with the Ministry, have been looking for solutions to remove the legal restrictions, which could therefore also mean that the institutions established for the so-called support activity will cease to operate. That their non-financing activities would become questionable. Of course, the proposed amendments also allow new institutions to be established where the interest of local communities would be. We are confident that this intervention would not lead to additional costs, on the contrary, we are convinced that rationalisation of business would be a savings, a savings that would, of course, be able to properly organise operations, reduce the costs in these institutions and eliminate the difficulties of financing the management of this institution. These problems were born when a discussion was held on whether this bill was adopted or not, i.e. how to offset management costs. In particular, the directors of these public institutions. Despite the problems identified, the Ministry was unable to find acceptable solutions at a time when the law was waiting for treatment on the home work body. However, we have certainly encouraged thinking about how, with the planned intervention of the Ministry in this area, to create the conditions for setting up this year and, in particular, for the functioning of the institutions already established. I therefore propose, on behalf of the applicants, that we do not today adopt the proposed decision of the Committee, so that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education is not suitable for further consideration. This will allow the competent working body to hold a substantive debate and also adopt certain amendments to the proposed bill. This was discussed by some members of the working body before the Committee adopted this negative attitude towards further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u132	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Alenka Jeraj will give her position to the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! The three Members of the SD Group have tabled for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education by means of a reduced procedure, whose basic objective, therefore, is to regulate the financing of public institutions carrying out accompanying activities of educational institutions such as accounting, legal and cadre activities, food organisation and the maintenance and cleaning of premises directly from the State budget. The applicant assesses that no additional financial implications will arise from the amendment of the budget law. Funding for support activities in education and education is already being allocated from the State budget. By amending the law, these funds will be transferred directly to the legal person who will be set up by educational institutions in order to carry out the above-mentioned support for activities. The amendment of the law will not affect other public-financial resources. At the time of the proposal for a law, the legislature pointed out that the distinction between public institutions and private institutions should be taken into account. In doing so, a sub-title, such as a public institution, should be provided for in editorial terms for the implementation of the accompanying activities and, at the same time, should be organised consistently within the framework of the general provisions on financing, or a specific, independent Article should be inserted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or the Ministry of Education and Sport, has also provided for amendments to the Education and Education Financing Act in its 2007 work programme. Amendments and additions in the field of organisation and financing of education and education, in our view, require a comprehensive approach and the Ministry is preparing models that would allow for a more rational organisation of educational institutions as well as the implementation of support activities in these institutions. Therefore, since the Government is already preparing changes in this area, it cannot partially, by making amendments, improve the bill of Members under consideration. The Ministry has invited all the social partners, as well as the parliamentary groups, to participate in the drafting of a government bill that will fully address the financing of support services. At its 26th regular session, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport also considered the proposal to amend the Law on Financing for Education and Education and agreed that the proposal was not suitable for further consideration. We will also support the same proposal for a decision in our Group of Members at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group of Members will be given by Ambassador Majda Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! Quite a few masochisms are necessary for a person to decide to make proposals for laws in this reference, since, as a rule, the majority of domestic workers always decide that they are unfit for further proceedings, although representatives of the government or individual ministries even consider the purpose of the applicants to be good. And even in conversations with representatives of the Ministry of Education and Sport, it was possible to find that they attributed a good purpose to us. The way out of this good purpose is the same as usual. We met several times and tried to fix things that they felt were not adequately resolved. This is mainly the question of the Director of the Public Service or the Director, who is supposed to be the additional cost of the idea that we tried to introduce by law after a reduced procedure. It is true that the Ministry of Education and Sport has announced more extensive changes to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, but the problems faced by the operators of the accompanying activities are here and now. And the three drafters from the Social Democrats' Group just wanted to help these problems, because at the Ministry of Education and Sport they claimed that this from the existing state of law, these activities, could no longer be financed. Therefore, the basic objective of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education is to regulate the financing of public institutions carrying out accompanying activities of educational institutions directly from the State budget. We also accept the view of the Legislative and Legal Service that, in Article 1, we should say that these are public kindergartens and schools, which could also be rectified in the legislative process. We have assessed that no further financial implications will arise with the amendment of the budget law. And other members of the Group of Social Democrats have also attached to this position. The State budget already provides funding for accompanying activities in education and education. By amending the law, these funds will be transferred directly to the legal entity set up by the educational institutions in order to carry out support activities for them. It is true that the Ministry of Education and Sport has recently been very focused on finding cheaper solutions with regard to the performance of work in the field of education and education, but we believe that changing the standards and standards of certain things cannot be regulated at the expense of employees in education and education. This may also be the reason why the proposal we have tabled in the procedure has not been adopted. We believe that the reasons for the reduced procedure are justified and that it is indeed a matter of very minor changes that would have been accepted if it were so willed. We will, of course, support the draft law in the Group of Social Democrats. But we are not enough to be affected by the final outcome of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u136	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be given by Dr. Slavko Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a typical example of the law that would be necessary if the legislator, when adopting laws, took into account some simple basic fact that they should be accepted to solve the problems that arise in this country and to guide the development of individual subsystems in Slovenia. This law should therefore be adopted. I do not argue that the indicator would be accepted without any addition in a text such as this, I am convinced that it can be complemented in the individual articles of the solution. The law should make it very clear that the amount of funds used to operate such an organisational form by such an institution should by no means exceed the amount of resources required to carry out those services in the pool of schools which are merged into it. This supplement would be more than welcome. We have also discussed this on the Committee that this is a problem, the functioning of such institutions, and the Ministry agrees in particular. After a decade of financing for the operation of such institutions, which acted more rationally, the cost was lower for public finances, as it now became clear that they could no longer be financed. If it is no longer possible to finance them, it is, of course, necessary to immediately establish a system that makes it possible to operate rationally in this area. Therefore, I propose that, today, we do not confirm the decision that the Committee has proposed not to make as a Parliament in this plenary part of the position that the law is not suitable for further consideration, but that the procedure is being followed up, as the Rules of Procedure provide that the articles are being supplemented and that, until we have a new law on the organisation and financing of education and education in this country, this solution, which would reduce the complications of current funding, where we have half the ridiculous situations where there are schools themselves - I am more or less confident, also in contravention of the law - many people who are far above the standards for example cleaning, accounting and so on. The solution that is now in life, at work, is an illegal solution and is the result of a new regime. In particular, I would like to point out that this proposed amendment to the law is being adopted because I fear that the debate on the issues which are now available to discuss the law on organisation and financing will have to be very long. In my opinion, this is a very poor solution, we are re-establishing the school centres in which we will unite schools, whether they will be educationally autonomous or large centres. They say goodbye where possible in Europe. We have more, especially in the high school area, already today too many centres, it does things for the uncontrollable, for the opaque and certainly not for the rational. In short, if the debate is serious, there will be a long debate on the changes to the ZOFI, and by then it would be wise to have a law that would allow those who would choose to work together voluntarily in this area, and the law should say that this should no longer stand, it should be less, it should only be the sense of this kind of association. When I talk about this, I am not talking about whether a private initiative should not be possible - yes, this should also be regulated by the ZOFI and, for starters, it should allow for fundamental rationality in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u138	Thank you, too. Member Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Pssalan Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u139	Once again, welcome; also young audiences on the platform. In Novi Slovenije, we have carefully examined the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. The amendment concerning the possibility of setting up a public institution to carry out an accompanying educational institution activity does not seem to us to be the best possible. We are aware that the overhead costs of kindergartens and schools are high and need to be rationalised. In New Slovenia we strive for a family-friendly environment, such as this, which includes both affordable and quality child care. We advocate such a sharing of the costs of organised child protection, which will allow the inclusion of as many children as possible, while the family budgets will not be overburdened. In this context, we support the pooling of schools and kindergartens to achieve cost rationalisation. Thus, joint work organisations could carry out joint tasks with appropriate organisation and thereby create savings in accounting, cadre-related matters, food organisation, cleaning of premises, maintenance and so on. In the establishment of new institutions in Nova Slovenije we see too many opportunities to grow additional support services, new jobs, whose final effect will be just opposite to the purpose of setting up. The New Slovenia Group considers that the proposed solution is inadequate and therefore the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u140	Thank you, too. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u141	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, young observers and those who are watching us at this time, a nice greeting. As the National Assembly’s home committee has concluded, the Slovenian People’s Party’s Group also considers that the law is not suitable for further consideration and will not support it, although it is trying to resolve the problem that will need to be addressed or addressed as soon as possible. In our view, the proposed legal solution is a legally controversial one, whereby, exclusively for the purpose of carrying out a fully marketed activity, public institutions that would also enter the market and thus compete after activities of the same economic operators which must be marketed. Moreover, it is legally disputed that public institutions operating and established for the purpose of marketing, i.e. income or profit, would be financed from the State budget. It also seems pointless to us to set up completely new institutions and thus new functions or services that would once again encourage business in the field of education or education and education. This needs to be addressed more systematically, taking into account, of course, that we have both private and public institutions in education and education. In addition to educational and educational activities, educational institutions carry out similar activities on their own, such as accounting, legal and cadre activities, food organisation and maintenance and cleaning of premises where they carry out their activities. An educational institution may conclude contracts with a provider of similar services. However, it is impossible to overlook the fact that such contracts are usually concluded under market conditions. The government strategy adopted in 2005 provides, for example, for the creation of common accounting services for the public sector. We agree that the creation of organisational units that would carry out monitoring activities for public institutions would, in particular, reduce the fixed material costs that each educational institution has, as well as the institution itself and individually. This would relieve both public institutions and local communities, which, if not annually, coordinate the financing of public institutions. In addition, we believe that the educational system should be uniformly regulated for the whole country in accordance with the principle of equal opportunities or conditions for all the inhabitants of our country. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that if we choose to finance from the budget, then such institutions should not be set up to generate income or profits. We propose that the competent ministry should propose an appropriate solution as soon as possible, so that, as I have already said in the introduction, we will not support the proposed law, which is in the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u142	Thank you very much. My colleague Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representative of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues, visitors, viewers! It is true that the basic law was passed in 1996. And interestingly enough, the government finds that just the last findings of the government are that there are not enough children in kindergarten. On the other hand, we find that this one and the previous government have done nothing to make the child more in kindergarten. Of course, if we look at the objectives of the applicants, they are well-intentioned in this context that the financing of public institutions in these accompanying activities needs to be regulated and transferred to the state budget. But where is the guarantee that the price of kindergarten will go down? Nowhere. There's no guarantee. And the government is responding, of course, that there is a new proposal for a law that will solve this in its entirety. And in my view, it would be right to define a new government proposal on how to lower the price that burdens the user, that is, the family. And this is the largest cost that is, the cost of work expressed in the price of kindergarten, and immediately for it are the costs of investment and current maintenance. Until we do this in full, we will not even reduce the cost of payment. And I think it's right to do it, and not to say it nice and talk -- almost everyone talked about what they would do, what they wouldn't do. Simply, why did you allow, all of you who had the opportunity to rule and to rule in this independent Slovenia, that kindergarten is the only concern of the municipality? While the government can provide care for the hospital when it can have school facilities, you have left kindergartens to the congregations. And today we have the highest price of 135 thousand, of course users in small municipalities, where the refund is not possible, and we have the lowest price there is about 75 000. Now imagine a family with a guaranteed personal income to pay for it! Of course, there are old moms here who solve the problem. And this government with some analysis that God knows how much, today he finds out and sells it to us by means of public information. I think it's the second wrong that I do to my parents, even the one that allows for a big lumbarity. Some avoid actual payment by simply living in separate family communities, but not separated, and therefore, in fact, have a single mother status. And it's the country's fault that she didn't take care of her family, and then again, she's sure that the baby's basically too small. So I would ask that we put an end to this nonsense and that we resolve in the law proper charging and fair for all and that we prevent those rich people who mock our legal regulations, who are very bad and who are exploiting this matter - in Sezhana we have a case where an extremely rich man essentially requires a reduction or a congregation pays him [[Too bad there's no mayor here.]] It's a These are also examples in other congregations. There are mayors among us, and let them know if that's not true. Nothing can happen, and no one can prove that they are actually acting unlawfully. Therefore, in our parliamentary group, we will not object to this proposal, because it has touched on a problem, just so that the amendment of the law is quickly written, I think it is obviously just a handful of populism, because we are not doing anything about it. And I personally don't care where we find our salary for the director of the public service and whether we're going to pool public service services, i.e. accounting services, kitchens, and I don't know what one public institution is going to be that we're going to set up again. This is not a problem that will solve this kind of problem. I want to know how the state will relieve the family and allow everyone, including the poorest, to put children in kindergarten. But we must do this in a way that is transparent, good, and only a new law can do so. I expect him because here in the opinion of the Government I have written down, or the government always says that he knows this issue well and that he intends to solve it in the future in full with the new law that he will put into the admission procedure in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u144	Thank you. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be given by Mrs Majda Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Allow me to refer, when presenting the Group's position, to the position just expressed or to the question of how the country will relieve the family. And I would like to continue that this proposal to amend the law is an attempt to relieve the state of education organisation first so that the family will be burdened as well. This is how I understood, so we understood the importance of this proposal, which speaks of possibilities for rationalisation, better organisation of education or kindergartens and how to organise accompanying activities in the field of education. It means everything from accounting, nutrition, cleaning and so on into organised public services. We believe that this is an experiment that is worth considering, which means and leads to rationalisation. I do not believe that in a second attempt this proposal will come with any significantly better solutions. We are promised that the law should change further in this area, but as I am aware, the Minister of Education generally agrees with these solutions. And if he agrees in principle, then here we are in prestige, saying whether what someone else is proposing in principle and we support others, of course, whether to support or not, we are on the same issue. And above, if you ask young people whether rationalisations and better organisations also agree in school or not, you would say yes. Let me finish our presentation of the Group of Members, of course, we will support the continuation of the life of this proposal with some letter that we have received on this occasion, and may I quote it. The gentleman who wrote to us says: "I think the changes are well prepared so that the novels with a little good will of the existing authorities could be accepted. Unfortunately, as so far as the proposal has been made by the opposition, there is no argument whatsoever to hold on." We will try to continue the debate on this subject, the solutions are well-designed and it is most unwise to reject them because they are not 'your' but 'our'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u146	Thank you. Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u147	Dear Mr. Vice President! Dear Members and Members! The problems of financing and rational spending of budgetary resources in public institutions are quite common in us and we doubt that the problems that have arisen will only be solved by seeking some of the partial, non-systemic and temporary solutions proposed in the proposed amendment to the law. It is clear that there have been difficulties in financing the operation of institutions established in certain municipalities to carry out support activities to educational institutions without adequate legal bases, as there are no systemic solutions in the law in force for their establishment and operation and not for the direct acquisition of funds from the budget. In our Group of Members, we question the fairness of the establishment of new legal entities and the transparency of the operation of these entities, because the proposal creates opportunities for inadequate and ineffective operation with its provisions. First of all, such a possibility constitutes a legal dispute over the establishment of such institutions from the point of view of competition. The proposed solution for these institutions, in addition to providing support activities under non-market conditions for educational institutions, to offer their services freely outside the market, would mean creating unfair competition for other economic operators with identical or similar activities, which operate only on a market-based basis. As a result, there could also be a problem of ensuring the appropriate quality of support activities for the educational institution. Furthermore, the cost-effectiveness of the establishment of new institutions, including in terms of additional funding to be provided for the entire infrastructure of the newly established institutions and for the employment of new directors and, last but not least, the second staff, is questionable. In our view, it is also questionable whether the provisions on the establishment of these institutions are optional, since we are convinced that the issue of rationalisation in terms of costs is not resolved if there is a possibility of free choice for individual educational institutions to decide jointly to set up a public institution for support activities. This is how it is likely that some schools and kindergartens will decide to do so, while other schools that would not be involved in such a joint project will continue to provide these activities independently through their own staff and infrastructure. Given that, according to government or ministry assurances, there are already extensive and comprehensive changes in the organisation and financing of education and education, Members of our Group feel it would be pointless to adopt partial and temporary solutions that will probably no longer be up to date this year. Members of our parliamentary group will support the decision on the inadequacy of the bill for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u148	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, within a half-hour period, i.e. at 16.10. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue, as I said, at 4:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u149	Dear Members, please calm down! We continue the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting apparatus. We're moving to broken 2nd item of the agenda. In conjunction with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the vote on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register will take place on Friday 30 March 2007 in the framework of the votes. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the vote on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Bond Code will take place on Friday 30 March 2007 in the framework of the votes. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Constitutional Court. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Constitutional Court, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 5. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and that the law will therefore be allocated to the mother's working body for a second reading. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 10. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 43. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. As no amendment has been adopted to the bill, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will vote on the draft law on Friday 30 March 2007 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education is not suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 20. [[The vote was 42.]] [[against 20.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also hereby adjourn the 26th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
