ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Ljubo Germič, Matjaž Han, Jožef Horvat, Matej Lahovnik, Marko Pavliha, Milan Petek, Franz Pukšič, Josef Školč and Mitja Slavinec. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on European Works, Summary Procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs Marjeta Cotman, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the proposal for a new Law on European Councils of Workers, which transposes the Directive into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, which extends the so-called Directive on European Councils of Workers to Bulgaria and Romania and has been adopted in a series of adaptations when Bulgaria and Romania joins. The Directive amends only one provision of the basic Directive, because of its increased membership in the European Union, and provides for a different maximum number of members of the special negotiating body. This body is set up to negotiate with the main management on the establishment of a European Council of Workers or to regulate the procedure for informing and consulting workers in larger companies or associated companies operating in at least two Member States. The amendments limit the number of members of the special negotiating body from the previous 17 to as many as the number of Member States. This is due both to Bulgaria and Romania's last accession to the European Union and to previous approaches, in which Slovenia has also joined the European Union. In addition, the proposal for a law further outlines the provisions of the basic directive by extending the law to three Member States of the European Economic Area, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, and takes into account the provisions of the Offences Act, which provides for a fine within a much higher scope than the currently established fine in the current European Council Workers Act 2002. However, when determining the fine, we have taken into account related laws, which are also adopted under Directives relating to the fields of information and consultation at European Union level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. I ask President Stanislav Brenčič to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I welcome you very much, Madam Minister, with a co-worker and all of you, colleagues and fellow Members! Well, our committee, this is the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, discussed the bill at its 30th regular meeting on 10.10.2007. Representatives of the proposer with the State Secretary, Mr Mark Strovs, and Mrs Andrejo Kurent, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, participated in the work of the Committee. The members and members of the Committee received a proposal for a law and an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service as material for the Committee's meeting. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and submitted comments to Articles 1 and 35. No amendments were tabled in the draft law, nor did the Committee design and adopt its amendments, although the issue of the need for amendments was raised in the short debate, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. However, the Government's representative explained that they did not think that amendments were necessary. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft law at the meeting of the parent working body, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on European Councils of Workers should be considered and adopted in the proposed text, as published in the Rapporteur 69/2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Janez Petty Officer on behalf of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u6	Good day to all of us in the Hall of the National Assembly. Participation of workers in management has been regulated by law in Slovenia for 14 years and participation in European Councils of Workers since 2003, i.e. from the time Slovenia aligned its legislation with the European Union prior to its entry into the European Union. The aim of the amendments to the law is in particular to transpose the requirements of the Directives establishing the European Works Council and to regulate the procedure for informing and consulting workers in companies or groups of undertakings at Community level, in particular those relating to the inclusion of new members, as highlighted in the presentation of the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The law establishes a uniform standard for this cooperation of workers at entrepreneurship level in companies operating in at least two Member States of the European Union. In doing so, it should be pointed out that a special negotiating body is negotiating with the company’s main management on an agreement on information and consultation with workers. It shall be established at the written request of the workers or their representatives addressed to the main management or at the initiative of the main management. The Council of Workers or the Council of Workers is a key instrument for coordination between work and capital at entrepreneurship level. Unfortunately, we have been visited many times by trade unions and the authentic interests of employees, which has left much room for the holy workers. The key place of trade unions is the entrepreneurship level, in particular negotiations on all issues of workers within the framework of collective agreements. In Slovenia, therefore, we should place more emphasis on the bipartite dialogue, which brings about the coordination of employers and workers at a wider level, while at the entrepreneurial level strengthening the role of the workers' councils, this is a European society whose work is regulated by this law. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposed amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u8	Thank you very much. I have no intention of talking about the basic law. This time, however, the amendment of the Law on European Councils of Workers is practically a technical harmonisation of the basic law on the amended directive, which has also emerged from its amendment on the basis of the Bulgarian and Romanian approach. In fact, this novel is a consistent transposition of the directive into our law, and practically this novelty is also subject to the provisions of the Offences Act, and also in this sense it brings certain alignments with the new law on offences. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the NSN Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Good morning, everyone! As far as the law itself, which we consider today to be point 1, we will not oppose it in the Slovenian National Party. The basic law has, however, started to apply from the date of the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union. It was adopted in the process of taking over the acquis of the European Union with the aim of transferring the requirements of the Directive establishing the European Workers' Councils. To put it simply, it is a matter of uniting or uniting within the European Union, in particular with regard to information and consultation of workers in companies or groups of undertakings at Community level. Following the latest enlargement of the European Union, the Council of the European Union has also adopted a so-called harmonisation directive extending space to Romania and Bogoria and amending the conditions. In fact, it is a matter of amending one article. This sets out the number of members of the special negotiating body established to negotiate with the main management on the establishment of the European Council of Workers or the regulation of the procedure for informing and consulting workers. These changes limit the number of members of the special negotiating body to as many members as the number of Member States. Among the reasons, the Government, as a proponent, cited compliance with the European Union's legal order and the law on offences, concerning the range of fines, which, according to the news, will be much higher than a certain fine in the applicable law on European Councils of Workers. The fact is that the Republic of Slovenia received an official reminder from the European Commission already in April this year, because it has made changes and implemented them in a timely manner, although our country should do so by the date of accession of Romania and Bulgaria, that is until 1.1.2007. Well, the Government is saying that this is unreasonable, as the directive is not to be officially published until 20 December 2006, so the government is pleading for too little time. I am surprised that the Government failed to do so, not only until 1.1.2007, but in fact today, when I adopt this legislation, a year after the current date. Last but not least, there are minimal changes, the four articles are actually technical in nature: the first mentions the directive, the second refers to the amendment that I mentioned earlier, it refers to the composition of the negotiating body, the third article touches the fine, and the fourth article specifies only the date of entry into force of this law. However, in dealing with the marriage on the work of the mother, a little bit, I'm going to say, "strange" work of the government. The Legislative and Legal Service drew attention to the vague dictatorship of Article 1, by which our country simply extends the European Union's premises to the European Economic Area community, or the equation, which is better said in the same way. For both communities the same reduction applies, says the Member States of the European Union, despite the fact that the European Economic Area also covers those countries which are not members of the European Union. At the same time, the Legislative and Legal Service also pointed out the potential need for the Swiss Confederation to be mentioned, which is, last but not least, the subject of the amendment of the Law on the procedure for the recognition of qualifications to nationals of the Member States of the European Union for the conduct of regulated professions or regulated professional activities in the Republic of Slovenia, adopted by the National Assembly at a previous meeting. Well, as has already been said, some substantive replies from the government representative on the Committee have not been received; the law has been adopted in an unaltered form, despite the questions that remain, can also be a dilemma. As has already been said, we will not oppose the law in the Slovenian National Party, not least it is very clear rules of the game within the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Members of Parliament and Members of the Government! We will support the bill in the DeSUS Group because, with regard to the substantive amendment of the law in view of the transposition of the directive, we have no doubts that the main reason for amending and supplementing the law on the enlargement of the European Union and adapting the legal order to the actual state of membership is. The basic law has regulated the system of the rights of workers to information and consultation in large companies and related companies operating in the European Union area in at least two Member States, thus applicable to any European company or associated company which is established in the territory of our country, including all branches and companies established in other Member States of the European Union. The European Council of Workers is the body of representation of all workers employed in multinationals within the European Union and the body of participation of workers within such a society. It consists of representatives of workers from all Member States to which the company extends. The main management is responsible for informing and consulting the European Council of Workers. In accordance with the basic Directive, the European Works Councils Act provides that a specific negotiating body has at least 3 members and a maximum of 17 members. However, in view of the accession of the last two new members and also in relation to previous approaches, including Slovenia, the latter has adapted the number of members of the negotiating body to a new situation. Thus, the Directive amends the maximum number of members from 17 to as many as the number of Member States. This is followed by a proposal for a new basic law. Again, as in many similar cases, in our Group, we ask ourselves about the manner or timeliness in which our acquis is aligned with European law. This time, as regards the last Directive, the applicant refers to its unreasonable request that Member States adopt appropriate amendments to their legislation by the time of entry into force of Romania and Bulgaria at the latest, which took place on 1 January 2007, and the Directive was published on 20 December 2006. Therefore, it is intended to be an unreasonable short period of time, but as we can see from the comparative review of arrangements in other Member States, some countries have already introduced provisions into their laws, which have already adopted the basic directive, so that the maximum number of members of the negotiating body is linked to the number of Member States. Slovenia has also received an official reminder from the European Commission for failing to comply with the requirements of the Directive on 23 April 2007. Even if we accept the fact that, as the proposalr points out, the time frame for bringing the law into line with the directive was really short and we do not see an excuse for such a small and difficult amendment of the law - it is only a matter of aligning with the amendment of one Article of the basic directive - it could not be done in a short time. At the time of the adoption of the basic law, all Member States of the European Economic Area were exempt from the law, even though the basic directive already included that country. Thus, in this case, as in many others, there is also inconsistencies in the treatment and implementation of the European acquis into national law. Despite the above indications regarding an inappropriate approach to the implementation of the common European legal order, we will, as has already been said, support the law, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Homan on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Minister with a team, fellow Member and Members, and all the others accompanying this meeting are very welcome! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on European Councils of Workers, a reduced procedure. At the end of last year, the Council of the European Union adopted a Council Directive of 20 November 2006 amending the Directive establishing the European Council of Workers or establishing a procedure for informing and consulting workers in companies or related companies in the Community with a view to the entry into the European Union of Bulgaria and Romania. This Directive actually amends the Article of the basic Directive, which provides for the number of members of the special negotiating body established to negotiate with the main management on the establishment of the European Council of Workers and the establishment of a procedure for informing and consulting workers. This Directive has limited the maximum number of members of the special negotiating body to 17 members, which has also taken up our law and the latest amendments limit the number of members of the special negotiating body to as many members as the number of Member States of the European Union. This is due both to Bulgaria and Romania's last accession to the European Union and to previous transitions, in which Slovenia has joined the European Union. The directive, which binds the entry into force of the Treaty of Accession of Bulgaria and Romania, makes it somewhat unreasonable to require Member States to adopt the relevant legislation necessary to comply with this Directive by the date of accession of Bulgaria and Romania at the latest. The Directive was published on 20 December 2006, and Bulgaria and Romania became members of the Union as from 1 January. That said, it's only been practically 10 days to do it. The Republic of Slovenia has also received an official reminder from the European Commission, because we have not done so yet, on 23 April 2007, but let me say that we are not the only ones who have not yet done so. Some countries have accepted this faster, some later, and today it is up to us to do the same. I believe that we will adopt this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and the European Councils Act must also be brought into line with the Offences Act, which sets out instead of a fine and increases drastic penalties. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, as I have already said, we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Expenditure on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with co-worker, honourable Members and Members. The consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on European Councils of Workers, following a reduced procedure, could easily slip away, as the amendment only brings corrections to the four articles, if not to mention a few things. In 2002, the Law on European Councils of Workers did not foresee the situation that has taken place with the enlargement of the European Union and therefore an increase in the number of workers in the world is essential. But what we have to say in this context in the Group of Social Democrats is, in fact, relevant to Article 3 which introduces a new amount of fines for offences, where there is also a reference between the objectives of the law to the law on the participation of workers in the management of a European shareholder society. Here I should mention that this law has also been passed with a great deal of delay, just as we have received a reminder from the EU due to the delay in the amendment of the law under consideration. But it points to something else: the appearance of one marriage and the other are dealt with in small things, which are essential if we take matters in the context of the accuracy and use of language. As the applicant did not take into account the observation in the law on the participation of workers in the management of the European company that the short term should be taken into account, taking into account the short term derived from the Slovenian nameing, so the applicant also listened to the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service in this law and insisted on his initial drafting of the articles. What we would also like to stress is that, even in the case of the law on the participation of workers in the management of the European Shareholder Society, we have endeavoured to achieve the right representation of workers in management, and that in the law we have adopted at that time, we have also sought to achieve some improvements in the law through amendments. I mention this because the increase in the fine is directly linked to what a share company has to pay if it does not notify the workers' council in time. In the European Union, therefore, taking account of the voice of workers either in the Council of Workers represented or through the Union Representation is a valuable fact for which it would be good to take it into account in us and not to see the remains of something we wish to forget as soon as possible. Participation of workers in management is an important achievement that should not be given up and smart owners are aware of it. However, how companies and our companies decide to take account of the voice of employees, but I would like to point out another issue which cannot be of central importance in this consideration. We will not oppose the amendment of the law in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support it even more, because it eventually removes a delay, and thus we are entering into an update of the European acquis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER REFERENCE OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE WORK SIZE LAW, IN THE context of the regular procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs Marjeta Cotman, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u18	Say good-bye again! Thank you, Mr. President, for the floor. Dear Members and Members! When preparing the draft amendments to the Labour Relations Act, the government had two objectives ahead of it. With the changes, we want to increase the flexibility of employment and thus enable Slovenian companies to become more competitive and, on the other hand, we wanted to preserve the acquired rights and social security of employees. In Slovenia, we are proud to be a social state, and we wanted to maintain this quality even when this law has changed. Given the current nature of this law, we have been under the watchful eye of the professional and interested public all the time. We firmly believe that the proposed changes will allow for the creation of conditions that will truly lead to greater employment. However, we do not just want to make progress in terms of reducing the statistics on unemployment, more than we want to create conditions for quality jobs, to facilitate the coordination of work and family life, to make it easier to move from one job to another, and to create a number of other grounds that enhance the quality of the working relationship. The development of social dialogue is another quality that we can praise and therefore the involvement of all social partners in the design of the environment in which they work and live is essential. Let me stress that the proposed amendments to the Labour Relations Act have been welcomed by both employers' representatives and workers' representatives. Throughout the process of making changes, the solutions ahead of you today were also the result of their proposals. In preparing the changes, we have also closely monitored developments in the European space. Europe also recognises the need for a new step in developing labour law. It is aware that more flexible forms of employment must be found and made possible, on the one hand, reflecting the actual situation and on the other hand responding to the challenges of competition from other parts of the world. Slovenia is with the proposed changes among the leaders in this process. The changes we are proposing are many, and I should like to stress only the most important. With the changes, we guarantee greater internal mobility. This means that the employer and the worker will be able to conclude a contract of employment, which will not only set up one job in which the worker can work, but more. This solution is one of those which will, as a result, also reduce the costs of the employer due to the reduced possibility of dismissal of workers in the event of surpluses found. The same effect will be achieved through changes that allow for more time-consuming employment. This is also related to changes in the definition of leading workers and project work. One of the important changes that makes it possible to protect employees more concerns the prohibition of any discrimination and psychological violence in the workplace. Slovenia is characterised by a small share of part-time employment. This also means less opportunities to harmonise work and family life. However, the main reason for this is that employers are not disproportionately expensive in terms of employment and are not interested in it. The changes that introduce the principle of proportionality give us the opportunity to develop this form of employment more. There are also a number of innovations in the area of termination of the employment contract. These changes are mainly the result of warnings from the judiciary, which point to the need for more detailed provisions on termination procedures. These changes will, in particular, constitute greater legal certainty. With the proposed shortening of notices, we will allow employers to reduce labour costs, to protect the workers most affected by this change, we will propose supplements in the field of legislation governing the rights of the unemployed. We have also listened to employers' demands to reduce the cost of forgiveness in cases of business difficulties. The amendments allow employers to provide employees with other appropriate employment in order to avoid the payment of the pension. However, a worker who thus receives another job is provided with adequate social security. Important changes are also proposed in the field of working time and annual leave. On the one hand, we propose to reduce the obligation of overtime, but on the other hand, we offer the possibility of longer overtime if there is an interest in the worker. The unclear provisions on the use of annual leave in case of a change of employer during the year are complemented by the principle of proportionality, which will allow for the use of leave in the employer to the extent that the worker is actually employed. Finally, let me mention another important news. We propose the abolition of the workbook as a mandatory document of workers. In practice, the working book has been a long-standing document of the employee from which the current legal status of the worker is to be demonstrated. In fact, this workbook is often used as one of the proofs of the worker's working, insurance and retirement age. The change will take effect as early as 2009, when access to the necessary data will also be made available electronically. Dear Members and Members, I am convinced that the proposed amendments to the Labour Relations Act are an excellent basis for the further development of a more flexible working environment in Slovenia. With these and accompanying measures, which reduce the risk of unemployment and poverty and promote individual employability and active participation in the market, we establish a modern and European-based system of safe flexibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I also ask Mr Stanislav Brenčič, Chairman of the Home Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well, the national assembly committee for work, family, social affairs and disabled persons considered the bill at its 30th regular meeting on 10th this month. Representatives of the proposed State Secretary from the Ministry of Labour, Mr Mark Štrovs, Mrs Andreja Kurent, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, representatives of interested trade unions, representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Association of Employers of Slovenia and representatives of the Association of Unemployed and Socially Hazardous. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and sold comments to Article 14. These comments were taken into account in some way also in the group of amendments proposed by the four coalition groups. The amendments were tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the Group of Non-Aligned Members, four coalition groups, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, and a member of mag. Janez Petty Officer. In the context of the discussion on individual articles, the members of the Committee, with the active participation of the invited members, paid the highest attention to Articles 4, 8 and 32 and to the amendments tabled thereto and other articles of the bill were discussed. In the debate on Article 4 of the amendment tabled, the amendments considered that it would indicate a provision on workplace torture to be more detailed as it might be too abstractly recorded. The proposal was also opposed by the Government, which considered the general definition to be better, since taxi numbering can cause more problems, while at the same time we can eliminate some other forms of suffering. Article 17, which regulates the amendment of the employment contract, was quite extensively discussed. Most discussers felt that the provision should be amended, but agreed that partial regulation in one article could lead to more problems while at the same time breaking the concept of the law. It was pointed out that, in practice, the abuse of employment contracts with the offer of a new contract often occurred, and therefore the protection of workers who are the weaker party to the procedure should be introduced. Discussions on the provisions of Articles 19 to 26 governing fixed-term employment contracts have highlighted the issue of fixed-term employment and the abuse of this institution in practice. It was pointed out that the Institute for a fixed-term contract was not as problematic as the problematic provision in the law, which allowed it to be misused too often. Infrequent, however, is the attitude of employers towards workers who have changed, but unfortunately for the worse. The majority of the debaters' opinion was that this institution would need to be upgraded in the future, which could be a further step towards negotiations between the social partners. At this point, however, the current solutions that are the product of long-term coordination between them must be respected. In view of the reasons given by the applicant, Article 32 follows the requirements for clearer and more effective solutions in relation to the termination of the employment contract, as, inter alia, a clearer regime on the implementation and effect of the previous notice is proposed prior to the waiver for a false reason. However, some discussers believe that the provisions relating to termination and termination of employment are still complex and rather unthinkable, as well as this. A short discussion was also held with provisions governing overtime and Sunday work. An amendment was proposed, whereby his proposer wished to introduce a Sunday provision as a work day off. In his opinion, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This would reduce the existing ambiguities as to which day work is free. [[...]] The Committee adopted amendments to the four coalition groups, did not adopt amendments to the Liberal Democracy Chamber of Parliament, to the Group of Non-Aligned Members of Parliament, to the Ambassador of Barbara Žgajner Tavš and to Ambassador Janez Drobnič. He accepted his amendment to Article 6. Everything that's been adopted, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] is entered in [[...]] [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The bill before you. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Once again, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, on behalf of the SLS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u22	Thank you again for your words, Mr Vice President. In the context of the Government's economic and social reform, which, at least in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, must be carried out in accordance with the Lisbon Strategy's starting points or pursue its objectives, it is certainly necessary to step into the labour market through deliberate measures and, in the dialogue with the economic and social partners, to provide the greatest possible opportunity for the stable employment of the population and, in particular, the employment of those groups that are more difficult to employ. In this context, in the Group of Members, we believe that it is imperative to establish or improve an environment in which individuals will find a suitable job more easily and more quickly, and on the other hand that companies will be more responsive to the acute globalisation effects that are increasingly present in us on the basis of the flexibility of the labour market. However, it is essential and necessary to ensure that sufficient liability is made available through the legal provisions to those who are increasingly and more dynamic processes within the economic and economic reality increasingly place them in the role of weak partners and are increasingly unattainable for them to work in a secure and stable manner. In addition, due to the lack of moral standards and standards for the type of employers in their relationships, both in the workplace and in the wider relations between them, it becomes severely disrupted for some employment due to a number of discriminatory and similar practices in the workplace, which have a stressful and negative impact on the worker's health and well-being. In this context, changes and additions to a key legal act in this area are necessary, if not absolutely necessary, in order to follow the process of so-called safe flexibility in the labour market, which is increasingly being shaped in the countries of the European Union as a fair and responsive approach to Europe's greater competitiveness for the rest of the world. For the Slovenian People's Party Group, it is important that the objectives of safe flexibility in the labour market are achieved through changes in the labour law through as genuine dialogue within the economic and social partnership as possible. However, the main solutions provided by this time's proposal for a new law include incentives to increase employment for an indefinite period, measures to increase labour market mobility, new forms of employment, greater flexibility in determining working time, more adequate protection for workers in the event of cancellation of the employment contract, through, of course, a series of simultaneous measures and motivations offered by active employment policy programmes. With amendments, the draft law follows the guidelines based on the European Social Charter and, last but not least, the new Article 6a introduces in the Labour Relations Act additional elements to prevent any discrimination in the workplace, including, of course, the prevention of psychological violence. All the changes and solutions brought by the law are the result of a long-term agreement between economic and social partners and, as such, are coordinated between them. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a law because it believes that the solutions achieved are good or compatible with the options given at this time, but still allow for the necessary social justice and sustainability in the context of the ever-increasing volatility that is present in the labour market today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u24	Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary, nice greeting! What needs to be said in the amendment to the Labour Relations Act is the fact that an agreement has been reached with the social partners, so in fact, we did not want conceptually to interfere with it in a way that this agreement would be conceived or violated. In this respect, we will also vote in favour of the law. However, it is right that I say here what we have tried to complement during the treatment on the parent’s working body, even though we have failed. We wanted to complement the article that is very loosely defined for our concept, an article that speaks of a mobile phone. Let me say that we welcome the introduction of mobile phones, or the definition of what harassment is in the workplace, into the law; therefore, we welcome the introduction of the prohibition of sexual and other harassment and suffering in the workplace as defined in Article 4. However, since the law provides a very general definition of what suffering is, which could result in the practice of too broad or possibly too narrow interpretation, we wanted to define what suffering is. Therefore, we proposed a supplement explaining that mobbing or suffering is a repeated attack on an individual or an individual. It is essential that there are repeated attacks, taking into account typical acts that cause mobbinga or suffering. We have defined them in more detail, unsuccessfully, as I said, but perhaps someday in the future successful. We've defined these actions in more detail and listed them, so we've defined them as repeating, multi-monthly, multi-monthly, half-yearly, usually theoretically. That is, screaming, criticising, pressures, criticising private life, verbal threats, phone pressures, moving to less appropriate workplaces, making fun of flaws, assigning inappropriate jobs, misassessment of work efforts, performing tasks that reduce confidence, assigning tasks that are below the qualifications level, spreading unpleasant rumors and so on. We summarized the definition by Swedish researcher of German origin Heinz Leyman, who defined in his definitions the 45 different acts of mental violence, and perhaps we would not be talking about it now. Let me stress, however, that some countries, such as Italy, certain regions, have a special law on mobile phones and we have even studied this somewhere. In fact, we have also failed in the enforcement of bulling or terrorism, victimisation, torture and bullying that can take place in the Slovenian Army. We wanted to make this provision because we did not encounter obedience in the service law in the Slovenian Army, but we know that there are great inadequacies and injustices that often occur in the military because of precisely this hierarchical relationship of superiors to subordinates. Let us recall in the case of never, in fact, the definitively solved case of harassment of employees in the Slovenian Army and the mystery that arises if the law is not clear enough. At the same time, I should like to say that according to the statistics we have just received these days, which speak and highlight the facts about women and men in Slovenia, there are still many inconsistencies and problems faced by women employed in Slovenia, especially those who decide for a shorter period and these are becoming more and more. Let me draw attention to the fact that women in Slovenia, the Labour Relations Act, cannot handle this, and the future will have to be at different levels, because if I finish, let me say that Slovenian women still have, so to speak, we are on the tail of those women in Europe who are spending the least time on ourselves. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And we're still working doubles, both at work and at home. We can also allocate at least free time due to the pressures we face both at work and at work. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u26	The Labour Relations Act has been in coordination for more than two years. The fact is that it is one of the most important documents, the so-called Labour Constitution, so it is not surprising that the law itself has been drawn up for so long. And if, during the period of Minister Drobnič, he was, in fact, totally unacceptable, both for one side and the other, Minister Cotmanova sent a harmonised version to the National Assembly. In doing so, I would like to point out that the harmonised content does not necessarily mean that the law is perfectly good. Comments remain and, as has been seen from the discussion on the home labour body, it is actually a bad compromise. Despite the warnings of employers who wanted to integrate in a very hard way a more flexible worker, which I would like to say, according to my assessment, especially at the expense of the workers, the real workers, agree on and actually confirm the content of the novel in May this year. The views of the negotiators have been consolidated with respect to the notice period, the maximum notice period is 120 days. In the case of overtime, employers will have to obtain the employer's consent for more than 170 hours, and the compromise of the partners is that the old employer is not obliged to pay the worker's pension if the new employer in the contract of employment ensures that he will also take account of the working hours of the first employer at the minimum notice of cancellation and dismissal. In June this year, Mr Štros mixed the state secretary of state at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs with the announcement of the law on pensions and invalidity insurance, which, among other things, introduced bonuses and minorities, shortened his working time. The marriage was, thank God I'll tell you, later frozen or withdrawn. The President of the Confederation of New Unions of Slovenia stated that the law on labour relations, except for the definition of overtime for workers, does not bring any improvement. Their situation will only deteriorate and will therefore not sign an agreement on amendments to the Labour Relations Act. In the Union of Free Trade Unions, they are satisfied with the compromise because they have managed to preserve quite a few rights, which they have initially shown that they will not be included in the new law. Among other things, a break for lunch that this government wanted to essentially end. The Slovenian Chamber of Commerce is not satisfied with the negotiations, but they say that the maximum is achieved, as was possible in the given situation. The Labour Relations Act clearly represents a step forward in the field of basic labour law, but the fact remains that, despite the harmonisation of the law, there is a growing dissatisfaction over it, as was evident from the report presented by Mr Brenčič, President of the National Assembly. In fact, not a single amendment of opposition parties was adopted on the Committee, although we have tabled several amendments only in the Slovenian National Party, which have touched on the amendments to the employment contract, in order to introduce into the law protection guards, who are the weaker party in the process, because in practice, the abuse of the Institute of the termination of the employment contract by offering a new one. I must say that from this point of view I am also surprised by the duplicity of the Government, which, in the case of this law, refers to consistency to this extent, that the Secretary of State, Mr Stroves, who has also advocated the law on the labour force, has virtually refused to accept any supplement if you could compromise as a house of cards. In any other law, where consensus is also reached, the Government itself will change the content, thus obviously undermining the compromise reached. I would also like to convey a clear message from this city to the Minister, if he wishes to maintain a small amount of credibility, so that it would be wise for him to personally participate in the creation of important legislation in the National Assembly in the future. As the Secretary of State has already adopted autonomy of decision-making within the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, he takes the autonomy of decision-making even between [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] or Members. [[...]] Arrogant, unprofessional, unprepared for dialogue, unfortunately this is a picture that we have been Members of over the past few months in the National Assembly in the absence of competent ministers for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u28	Thanks again for saying that. The amendments to the Labour Relations Act are one of the main points of the government reform package, but with a rather excessive reference to and compliance with the so-called soft law, i.e. the recommendations of the Green and White Papers, which have no legal value and are not binding and some analytical frameworks are rejected even by the European Parliament itself. The reforms of the small working constitution are designed to contribute to the greater flexibility of the Slovenian labour market. However, in terms of flexibility, it has fallen apart because it did not know what the criteria and framework of the informal work should be and how to adjust flexibility, so that it is also safe, what are the practices and experiences in other countries and what is the actual situation with us. The fact is that employers want to serve the flexibility of work only within their own interests in the light of the needs of a highly oriented market economy, but informal work does not mean only easier forgiveness and employment, but it must first and foremost be understood as a relationship that differs from a typical form of work for an indefinite period of time at full time and in the premises of employers, and realize that this different relationship means for the worker, in terms of his social security, the possibility of progress, additional education, coordination with his family life, but among all possibilities for flexibility of work is the most commonly used option of a fixed-term employment contract. We have such contracts concluded in most of the new jobs. Some in the European Union have already come to the conclusion that over-employment for a certain period of time has a direct impact on the reduction of competitiveness and the ability of the economy, because the uncertainty of employees has a negative impact on their performance and, finally, because of the lack of employment, they do not meet even the minimum financial conditions to regulate housing conditions and create a family. As one possible form for greater flexibility of work, employment with shorter working hours is also related to us mainly to the reasons arising from the rules on pension, disability and health insurance and the rules on parental protection. In addition to this form of work that has not yet taken place with us in comparison with Europe, there is a similar situation with regard to work at home or distance. Furthermore, the flexibility of work is also shown in when and how much workers are available for work. The fact is that Slovenians are at the very top of the average working time, and we are also at the top of the European average after functional flexibility. Flexibility is also reflected in the choice of working time, and only a minority of employees have this choice in us. It should also be added that we Slovenians are very flexible about the place of work, since many workers travel to work in a different place or congregation or even the region. Members of the DeSUS estimate that the amendment is acceptable to both sides of the working relationship, so we intend to support it. For both the worker and the employer, it is also a welcome solution to the new fact that the employer or the institution will find a suitable employment at the time of the cancellation period, while transferring the right to retirement, taking into account the previous duration of the employment relationship to the new employer. We also welcome easier forgiveness in cases of unjustified absence from work, since this protects conscientious and responsible workers. We also believe that, in terms of coordination of professional and family obligations, it has provided for the use of annual leave for workers who are parents of the school child. With regard to the proposed regulation of overtime, we believe that, given the fact that many workers are already doing overtime work, which many times does not comply with the conditions laid down in the current law, the issue of the supervision of employers is raised when they convince workers and also convince them to agree to work overtime for over 170 hours. In our parliamentary group, we will support the amendment of the Labour Relations Act, given that it has been coordinated between the social partners and ultimately brings bearable compromise solutions and does not constitute a significant deterioration of the labour market situation. However, in the face of future reforms, we will insist on ensuring such working conditions, which will contribute simultaneously to enhancing the employability and safety of employees and to the competitiveness of the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Possonec has the floor, on behalf of the national communities. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to the Minister with a co-worker and all the colleagues and colleagues present! The objective of labour law reform, which will lead to sustained growth with many and possible jobs, is linked to a more flexible labour market. In doing so, it is necessary to ensure that people find work easier and faster and that businesses make decisions on new employment and forgiveness easier. At the same time, adequate social security must be ensured for those who would lose their jobs in a more dynamic environment. It is also necessary to protect workers and help them to respond to faster changes in the content of their work, thus providing them with safe employment. In the European Union, the concept of safe labour law reform is increasingly being implemented [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] providing all market participants with relevant policies with relative social security and social integration of work. [[...]] This requires changes in labour law and other relevant legislation. The new law also provides solutions that, together with the remaining measures, would effectively contribute to greater mobility in the labour market. Promoting employment for an indefinite period, which at the same time allows for all possible flexible forms of employment. Regulation and motivation of employment, which brings social security to workers in relation to the use of other civil bases for the performance of work and activities. Flexible allocation and establishment of working time, adequate protection against cancellation, inspection and enforcement of judicial protection in this area, and integration of additional clearer harmonisations permitted or directed by European law. I'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Jeraj has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everyone. The new law brings a lot of changes, as social partners, the Government, employers and trade unionists prepared and coordinated the novel with the desire for greater flexibility and mobility in the labour market and at the same time with the desire to ensure adequate social security. I myself have missed the support of the media, which have had an ideal opportunity to play their part with other actors and to present the main changes to the law to the public. Let me say that in the SDS Group we will support the amendment of the law, as it includes quite a number of coalition contracts, and that the amendment reflects a successful agreement between the social partners, my list is also: employment is encouraged for an indefinite period of time and at the same time allows all other possible flexible forms of employment, creates flexibility in the allocation and setting of working hours, provides adequate protection against cancellation, reduces the statutory time limit in which a worker has to apply for the publication of a free job, and the employer has to inform temporary workers of the spare parts or the publication of spare parts for an indefinite period of time or full-time work. Cases of suspension of employment contracts may also be determined by collective agreement or contract of employment, re-involved by distance work, more clearly ensured by the principle of proportionality of the rights of employees with shorter working hours according to the length of working time, clearer are the obligations of the worker and the employer when the contract of employment is cancelled with the simultaneous offer of other appropriate employment. The issue of implementation and the impact of an emergency cancellation in the event of an unjustified absence of a worker from work is resolved, there is a uniformisation of noticeable notices in the event of cancellation for business reasons, the reasons for failure to do so. The time limits in force for failures are now respected. More effectively, the issue of providing special protection against the resignation of older workers, disabled persons and workers who are absent from work for health reasons during and after the retirement period, the question of eligibility for retirement when the right to a part-time pension is exercised, additional mechanisms are put in place to facilitate family and professional coordination, the annual number of overtimes to be carried out by the worker on the basis of the employer’s mandate and the regulation of the possibility of longer working overtime. The annual time limit for overtime is reduced from 180 hours to 170 hours, but with the worker’s consent it may take longer, but not more than 230 hours per year. There are broader and clearer options for acting inspectors for work, leaving the working library as a mandatory employee document, and replacing it with a card that would allow access to original data in public databases from 1.1.2009. The transfer of the company or the business itself does not constitute a basis for forgiveness; the protection of parents who benefit from parental leave in the form of full absence from work is extended another month after returning to work. An older worker who is reinstated after retirement does not have the right to reinstatement upon termination of the employment contract. The obligation to inform workers of the annual leave is included in the law. Parents are entitled to spend at least a week of annual leave during school holidays if they have school-bound children. The possibility of continuing the work of an older worker who is partially retired, not only in his workplace, but also in another appropriate job, is being expanded. This, in addition to other minor changes, is the reason why we will support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group in the hope that workers will, above all, be able to find the right way between flexibility and social security, of course, in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Purity on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Once again a nice greeting to the Minister and her co-workers, honourable Members and Members! They say politics is a possibility of art. And if we were to judge that after two years of negotiations, Minister Marita Cotman was able to reach a compromise between the social partners, then she is an artist. But this does not want to reduce the achievement that we will support in the Group of Social Democrats. We appreciate that this is a proposal for a law that is coordinated between the social partners. As with any compromise, it can also be heard from this law that employers expected more, in particular small employers, to expect that some of their needs in the field of employment under increasingly difficult economic conditions in view of the increasingly severe competition to be settled slightly differently, just as it can be expected that some of their rights and duties will be better defined in the draft law, but that they will have to wait for what the amended provisions will also bring through the application of legislation. The agreement between the social partners was possible because the Minister had exempted all the points that were most difficult to overcome from the agreement. This is in particular a question of pay and a question of working time. Social Democrats are aware that it is important if the concept of a contractual relationship in employment is maintained. We also understand the efforts to promote employment for an indefinite period of time. This is due in particular to the fact that the European experience of coordination between security and flexibility is also increasingly focused on the practice of achieving flexibility and less security. However, if we want to be social and social justice, a society that is oriented towards development, we should be particularly concerned that something like this does not happen to us. It has seemed that we are more inclined only to those words that trigger or promote flexibility. As we say, we welcome instructions that are aware of the dangers that increased flexibility can pose and the loss of employees' rights. In particular, we note in particular the conclusion of employment contracts, project work, trial work, work for a limited period of time, which is also shown by experience as a great trap, which is then reflected in the heavy workload in the short term. In short, there's a lot of questions that open up here. We believe that it is very good for the original Article 6 of the so-called anti-discrimination article to spread things in the same direction that prohibits not only discrimination but also retaliation. And it is even more valuable to us that the issue of suffering is more precisely addressed. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the problems that arise in the regular payment and the corresponding payment for work. However, we see a particular problem in the growing frequency of employment violations through private labour brokers, where workers and workers are often exposed to very dramatic conditions of employment. The problem of employment of foreign workers from less developed EU countries has been particularly recent and we encourage the Government to ratify the 181 International Labour Organisation Convention as soon as possible on these private employment agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr Aleš Gulič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u36	Dear President! Dear Madam Secretary! Dear fellows and fellows! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act, not with great victory and joy, but nevertheless. The law, as it has now come through the mills of negotiation, is yet a good enough basis for further work, and of course also for monitoring what is actually going to happen with market reform in Slovenia. The reform of the market in terms of big bangs was initially accompanied mainly by a lack of respect for the social partners in essential laws. Remember two years ago, in 2005, when this started to be discussed, it was possible at first to listen little to what the social partners wanted and then less and less. Even then, the minister of that time said that he would represent the workers himself. Maybe considering how hard he can set things up, it wouldn't be bad. I'm sure it wouldn't be good if you did both. In the end, the amendments to the law were supported by representative unions and, of course, also by employers' representatives, so that at least seemingly this could be okay. However, it seems to me that the Minister has succeeded in a number of things, especially because she has withdrawn those main things. Later, when we tried to improve some things on the committee, of course, there was no more hearing, and the State Secretary's excuse was, if everything was determined, complete with what the Government and the social partners said with dialogue. This is certainly not good for Parliament - it is essentially taking this right to improve a matter, to see something else. I am sure that the consequences of this, as far as we are concerned, will be taken away from us some possibility that this will be known very, very soon. Whether it is the part that speaks of safe employment or the part where workers’ rights may actually be compromised. Now I'm also thinking about mobile and building. Both of them did not show up yesterday, it has been a long time between people, enough for some individuals to suffer for this very, very much. Now that these skills have been transferred from other countries to our places, that's all. At the same time, control of this is worse than it was. Even for a bulling, which some associate only with the military, we can say that it also moves into other working environments, especially in those working environments where the hierarchy is arranged similarly by the military; we know, railways, then ships and so on, it is said where some things are set up more hierarchically than ever. Let me also say that in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we agree that reforms in the labour market are necessary. At the same time, it is also noted that they have always been poorly thought out, first of all without finding a broad consensus of professional and lay public, and later by consensus mainly lay public and the professional public was somehow left behind. If we want to maintain a high level of economic growth, favourable trends in the unemployment rate in general terms in Slovenia, a new approach to reforms is certainly needed, even more so. [[...]] [[End warning sign]] and open-minded legislation and, above all, understanding of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Drago Koren has the floor, on behalf of the NSI Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u38	Have a good day, everyone in this room. Negotiations on working relationships are an acid apple, in which it is always difficult to bite. The new period of labour law, which followed a radically amended labour law in 2003, had in fact the same objective as the amendments to the law that we are considering today. This is an increase in the flexibility of work, while ensuring an appropriate level of social security. The negotiations with the social partners by skilful driving between Scylla and the Caribbean, if I may put it this way, were brought by current Minister Marjeta Cotman. In the end, completely conflicting initial interests have balanced and we have received the compromise proposal that we are adopting today. The unions were able to maintain the right to reimbursement of labour costs and allowances for past work and paid leave. However, employers were able to ensure a slightly greater internal flexibility for employees with the possibility of a wider definition of work to be carried out by the worker under the employment contract. The Slovenian labour market is characterised by high rigidity and a very high level of safety of workers, which is not bad, but it can lead to some problems, so it is necessary to ease this rigidity and create an environment where people will find work faster and easier and businesses will make employment decisions easier. At the same time, an appropriate level of social security must be found in such a dynamic process and different groups of workers must be protected. The changes are quite extensive and therefore we would like to focus in the New Slovenia Group on only a few solutions that are particularly important from our point of view. The proposed amendments to the law provide additional mechanisms to facilitate the coordination of work and family life resulting from reform guidelines. Additional legal bases are laid down to adapt working time to the needs of workers, parental obligations, of course, if the work process permits this. Employees with school-bound children will be able to take at least one week of annual leave during school holidays. There is also a clearer definition of special protection against dismissal for workers with parental obligations. In the New Slovenia Group, we would also like to stress the greater protection of workers from discrimination and all kinds of violence and the protection of older workers from dismissal. It still seems important to us to apply the proportionality of short-term employment rights. Regression rights will, as a rule, be granted in proportion to the length of working time, except in certain exceptions. In addition to the regression, the category of proportionality includes retirement. This measure will probably allow more employers to choose to work for shorter working hours, a suitable instrument for young parents who wish to remain active and in contact with the labour market in addition to caring for their children. And for older workers who have difficulty doing the eight-year-old. The labour market and the rapidly acceptable economic situation pose new challenges in the field of labour law. There are always new forms of employment in the Member States of the European Union that are far from the classic concept of high-level social security and former stability. That is why we are so much more pleased in the Group of Members that in Slovenia we are able to maintain a balance of security flexibility, because we do not want to change the Constitution, which stipulates that Slovenia is also a social state in addition to the rule of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will vote on the draft law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - On the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Political Parties, summary procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Mag. Zinraj Bell, Secretary of State. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u40	Hello! Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The adoption of the proposed amendments and the completion of the Political Parties Act are mainly dictated by the need to harmonise the general conditions for financing the parties under the conditions decided by the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act to finance the electoral campaign. This provision in Article 14 provides that electoral campaigns shall not be allowed to be financed by means of companies in which public capital of more than 25% is invested and by companies in their majority ownership. Under this provision, all election campaign organisers are subject to stricter funding conditions than the political party law provides for financing by the parties. The proposal for a law amending Article 25 of this stricter prohibition also extends it to all companies in which those companies have a majority share and extend it to all legal entities of public law. This stricter ban will thus apply to other cases of client financing, not only for the financing of the electoral campaign. The draft law lays down the responsibility of a political party for an offence if it gains funds or other property benefits from the entities referred to in Article 25. The bill also introduces the possibility for the founders to confirm their signature on the founding declaration not only in the notary but also in the administrative unit. The proposal further lays down the basis for the collection and processing of certain personal data on the representative of the party necessary to establish their identity. In accordance with the rules on the protection of personal data, the proposal also defines the purpose of keeping the register of political parties. With the amendment of Article 25 of the Political Parties Act, restrictions on the financing of electoral and referendum campaigns by companies in full and for all electoral campaign organisers will be regulated by the Political Parties Act. I ask the National Assembly to support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the Vice-President, Mr Srečko Hvauc, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! At its 37th meeting, on 3.10.2007, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on political parties submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following a reduced procedure. At the meeting, the representative of the proposer presented the main changes relating mainly to the financing of electoral campaigns. There are other amendments to the bill. However, it is common for all of us not to interfere with the ongoing presidential elections due to the validity of the bill. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service gave an opinion and said that all comments were duly taken into account by the amendments tabled. The representative of the State Council and the President of the Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for the political system supported the bill. Members and members of the committee did not discuss the draft law. Amendments to Articles 4, 10 and 11 of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS were tabled. The Committee also adopted all the articles of the bill below. An integral part of this report is a complementary draft law prepared by the Committee by including all the amendments adopted in the draft law for the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u44	Your Honors are here! According to our assessment, the proposaler's intention is not what he wants to show and what he has shown in the context of the explanation, as provided by the Secretary of State. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were really trying to finance political parties transparently, then it would regulate matter in another law, namely the amendment of the law on the financing of the campaign for elections and referendum. According to our assessment, this is a roof law that speaks of the content in question. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to amend the Political Parties Act, then it would be appropriate for the National Assembly to meet more substantively complete requests for change at this time. In the National Party, of course, we estimate that it is right to allow for a limit that will prevent illegal financing. But on the other hand, if we look at who was involved in this funding in the past, let it be at the local elections, the national elections, we see that, of course, the largest government party of the SDS has taken the lead here. And that we have a pretty wide list of companies that are more than 25% owned by the country, or, rather, residents and residents within our country. That's why it's the first time we've been surprised by two of us from this place. For the first time, that the largest ruling party, which was already in 2004, has received this funding, which is now said to be unfair and not transparent, has not returned this money. And if we know, as we say, that it was precisely the party of Mr Janez Janša, today the most powerful party, is receiving funding from this side, then it is not clear to us from this place why the matter is not dealt with by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the roof law which I told you a little earlier. But of course it is a matter of duality or even a multiple face of the largest political organization in our country. If you are proud of this type of work, then regret, pity for the Slovenian National Party. I believe, however, that when the issue of non-transparent financing of your political organisation is even more exposed, and even more so is the disclosure of the non-refundability of the funds that they have received illegally, I hope that there will also be a moment called sobriety within the framework of Slovenian society. I would like to point out what we see in the National Party as a deficit in the content of this Act on political parties. The fact is, within our country, we have both parliamentary political parties and non-parliamentary political parties, and not least, groups of people who join different societies, movements and so on, actively engaging in the electoral fight. Of course, competition is healthy, but healthy if it is performed in the same, same criteria and not on the criterion of omission above transparency. From this place I can safely say on behalf of the Slovenian National Party that there is no equality. To create, either by order of political parties or by order of business individuals in a local environment, groups of people who take part in elections should be in the sense of capture or achieving financial effects. Unfortunately, this not only takes place during pre-election campaigns, but also during the financing period during the year. Last but not least, the anti-corruption commission has identified one of such corrupt financing of the list, and I do not know exactly what it is called, I know that it is run by Mr Stojan Auer in Maribor. But from this title, the Commission has found its own, and the executive branch has not made its own. Even more. When it comes with a legal change, such corruption does not prevent by law. And this is the shame that we assess in the National Party to monitor this legal matter. For the sake of clarity, however, for the first time, as we say, we agree or assess that the matter should be settled in a substantively protective law. Secondly, we estimate that equality before voters at the moment of political marketing should be both on the content side and on the financial side. Thirdly, it is the task of the legislator to prevent any corruption by also writings that are sought for various bodies within local communities. Fourthly, it would no longer come to that which is that you, gentlemen and ladies of the SDS Group, have just become rich on that account. And what was your answer? Your answer was, "These companies are not directly state owned." That's what they wrote in the SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u46	Mr President, thank you very much for inviting me to the floor. Let me briefly present our position, the position of the DeSUS Group in relation to this law. Let us say that it is an introduction to regulate political action and also to finance this activity, but only in one part, one important part of the political activity of this law, which speaks of political parties, goes away, and this is the part that has been gaining more and more attention among the population in Slovenia in recent years or in recent years. In spite of this, we will support in the DeSUS Group the important part of the political activity that is taking place from independent parties, just as we supported the Electoral Campaign Act, which is related to this law in those regulations that we are talking about today. The essence of the law is, we judge, an attempt to prevent double public funding from political parties. Firstly, this funding from public funds flows about legislation, as envisaged, directly from the budgets, when, in view of the electoral results, customers are financed, which are not received and are therefore discriminated against for the first time. Secondly, it is the financing of political parties through companies which may also be in a significant share of state-owned property, i.e. also related to public finances. This restriction, which is foreseen here, is acceptable to us. We note, however, that the government's ambition is to actually reduce the country's share in the individual ownership structure of various companies, and that the state will be below 25% in the medium or long term, so it will be possible to finance these political parties wherever possible, because this threshold will not be 25% more achieved in different companies. The question whether this is done on purpose, or whether it is merely a lack of transparency or consistency, is a fact. However, it probably also means limiting every time the current authorities have to do with the ambitions of creating expenditure in individual companies. This may also mean less pressure on managers, but I doubt that the management teams and each time the government would not be resourceful enough to find another way to finance political parties like the one that is now limiting. Therefore, while we support limiting this public funding to political parties, it is in our eyes that what is not written in the law is the constant departure to the margins of non-party newspapers, non-party mayors. There are no real non-participating Members and Members in the National Assembly. It is also almost impossible for us to establish ourselves here because there is no need for what is absolutely necessary: appropriate organisations and adequate financial assistance. In the introduction, the applicant mentions that this law allows for the formation and realization of political will for all. But as we can see, one less, the other less. So this introduction is only partially written down. It is also only partially written that it is about promoting and enabling an unhindered political association, for again it is only those who are party lovers. And another is such a questionable claim in the introduction. Rather, the one who says that there are no financial implications for public funds, because if there were no public funds, the law itself would be meaningless, which is exactly the area he wants to settle. In the parliamentary group, we will support this law or amendments to this law, the concerns we have had under similar legislation, and we keep this law, and we hope that the time will come when the independent can also act in this Parliament. We see that none of the key candidates for the president of the country want to be identified as a party candidate anymore, and thus, at this level, non-participation or less dependence on the parties becomes effective.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitrij Kovacic has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Initially, I would like to reject the slanders that the representative of the Slovenian National Party has directed at the Slovenian Democratic Party and has thus put himself in the role of a judge as if he were representing a court when he accused another party, which is in fact incomprehensible and has exceeded the function that he has when representing the position of the party or the parliamentary group. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposed amendment of the law. The new law on political parties represents minor changes or compliance with applicable legislation. In view of the already adopted electoral and referendum campaign law, it is right to legislate in the law on political parties in the same way, but we also support the proposed additional restriction extending the ban on financing by companies with at least a quarter of the public share and also by all their subsidiaries, whether directly or indirectly owned by them. In addition, such a financing ban is extended to all legal persons under public law. The novelty is also coordinated with the General Administrative Procedure Act on the Certification of Fundamental Declarations and, as regards the processing of personal data, the definition of the purpose of keeping the register, protecting legal traffic and the application of the principle of confidence in registration data is equivalent to other public documents. We also agree, of course, that the law lays down the responsibility of a political party for violations of their financing, because it is only in this way that the legal provisions on prohibitions in the event of their non-compliance can be actually enforced. Here I would also like to say that no legislation in itself can prevent irregularities, cannot prevent possible corruption, but such anomalies can prevent the efficient work of law enforcement and judicial authorities. The legislation imposes orders and prohibitions and, if there is a breach of these laws, the law enforcement authorities, the prosecution and the judiciary shall act in the final phase. I also reject those things that have been said in the position of the representative of the Slovenian National Party. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will therefore vote in favour of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u50	Dear Presidents, esteemed guests, colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will not oppose the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on political parties. In fact, it has been a time for some things to be arranged for them to be made more transparent and clear. It is also clear to us, of course, that legislation cannot prevent corruption, that it cannot prevent the abuse of the law, but it can, of course, make it difficult for the scoundrels to do so. And I think that such a law, which, after that, also allows the sanctioning of undesirable and criminal phenomena, must exist. But there's another thing that, of course, doesn't exactly come into my head. At the full table, talking about not fasting is, of course, a little perverse. But when we eat and drink everything, we will also consider ourselves not to eat and drink anymore. Thus, this story was about to end with the adoption of this law and the waiting for a time when, say, there would be no such elections, such events that could hinder it. It is right that this law has not been adopted, so that it has an impact on the election for the President, but the question is what is the point of dealing with such a problem in such a partial manner. I, too, am more inclined to see matters settled in roof laws, in laws that regulate all possible situations, not just some. But of course, the devil is still a fly, so we will not oppose this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on political parties. But it is true that this is not just a matter of marriage, it is also a matter of some moral attitude of individual parties and their highest representatives, and I think it is also up to them, how much law they use and how much abuse they abuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u52	Mr President, the government's representatives are a good day, colleagues and colleagues! The amendments and additions to the Political Parties Act are aligned with the provisions of the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act, which was adopted by the National Assembly this year and commits the organizers of election and referendum campaigns not to be financed by funds from companies in which public capital is more than 25% and their subsidiaries. This percentage is linked to the privatisation model of the Government, after which the country is expected to maintain a certain impact in the long term in individual companies. This would prevent companies directly linked to the country and thus the party policy from dedicating funds to political parties who are in power for a certain period of time. Only the amendment of this law will this also prohibit the financing of political parties. So far, political parties have been able to finance companies where less than 50% of public capital has been invested. In this regard, I would point out, on behalf of our Group of Members, that we agree with such an approach, because it increases transparency and reduces the direct link between state capital, if I say so, with leading political parties or with those that have the greatest influence. On the other hand, it should be stressed that this can be done in principle in the fact that only political parties that have joined Parliament are financed by public funds from the budget, which ensures a minimum existence and ensures minimum conditions for the functioning of party democracy at the state level. In doing so, we are asked how to regulate the financing of political parties at the local level in the long term, where the situation is not one where, in view of the procedures so far and in view of the trends, something else could start, namely, the beginning of the end of political parties in elected local self-government bodies. The funding of political parties at the local level is systematically suspended in some municipalities, so they are dependent on other sources, and this can lead to a situation that has already been described by one of the interlocutors today that they will become only advocates of certain lobbies, while party democracy will begin to die at the local level. Of course, this law does not deal directly with this, it prevents what I said earlier, which we agree with, but I am pointing to this fact. This trend continues, and I think that for the healthy development of party democracy is not the best, especially at the local level. With the introduction of landscapes, if this project sees the light of the world, the question is whether this trend will not continue at this level. And it is important to pay attention to who will actually lead the policy so that we will not systematically allow it to be just capital. The draft law also complements the way in which the founding statements of the founders of a political party are validated, lays down the basis for the collection and processing of personal data by the representatives of the party in the manner already laid down in other laws governing public records, and defines the purpose of the register of political parties in accordance with the rules on the protection of personal data. The law also extends the set of personal data on the representative of the party. The missing information on the parties' representatives must be transmitted to the registration authority within 6 months of the entry into force of the law. In accordance with the principle of the public functioning of political parties, the proposal also provides that the data entered in the register of political parties, public, personal data on the founders and other personal data stored in the register of documents will be available in the future only in accordance with the rules on the protection of personal data. As I have already said, the Members of New Slovenia will support the proposed amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Drofenik has the floor, on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Political Parties Act concerns less difficult amendments and additions, which constitute or require coordination with the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act. The Law on Election and Referendum Campaign provides that, irrespective of the law governing political parties, electoral campaigns shall not be allowed to be financed by means of companies with public capital of more than 25% and by companies owned by them and the extension of this prohibition to all their subsidiaries as well as to all legal persons of public law. This will prevent companies directly linked to the country and thus to the party policy from dedicating themselves to political parties who are in power for a certain period of time. The bill also extends the possibility of certifying the founding declarations of the founders of a political party which can now be certified in the administrative unit under the General Administrative Procedure Act. The law also lays down the legal basis for the collection and processing of personal data by party representatives in the manner already laid down in other public books aimed at ensuring the safety of legal traffic and expressly defines the purpose of keeping the register of political parties, which is also in accordance with the rules on the protection of personal data. As more or less to harmonise the Law on Political Parties with other regulations, we will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Political Parties in the SLS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the protection of cultural heritage within the framework of a regular procedure: The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this bill, the Group of 11 Members and Members of the First-signed Majdo Shirca requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs. Jelka Pirkovich, Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. On behalf of the proposer, this is the Government, I will briefly present to you the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. This is a legal text which has been in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia programme since 2002. This information can already tell you that it is a relatively complex area. We have done a lot of coordination, including in this composition of the Government since 2005 many analyses, international comparisons, in particular taking into account the standards of protection as laid down by the international conventions of which the Republic of Slovenia is a signatory or a member. So I can say that this is a modern law that takes into account all the positive knowledge of the profession and is based on the principles that I will briefly summarize. The core of the law is, so at least we see the proponents in identifying what is in the public interest of protection. This is said, in each particular case, it is necessary to determine what needs to be protected, what is the public benefit. We have also come from an extended understanding of the concept of inheritance. From the present understanding, when we are talking mainly about a movable and immovable heritage, with a word of material heritage, we propose that the term extend to a intangible heritage, which is called a living heritage in the law, and thus underline its presence and sensitivity, which must be protected for future generations. Finally, the new rights and obligations of everyone in relation to inheritance must, of course, be determined and, in this context, the relationship between property rights, as a constitutional right, and the right to inheritance, which we believe is part of the right to culture and education and thus part of fundamental human rights, should be defined in particular. I have already said that the core of the law is designed as we propose to determine the public benefit of protection. This is expressed in the following way, through the professional identification of an inheritance - this process ends with the registration of an inheritance in a register. Unlike the current regime, the entry of an inheritance into the register for the owner has no legal consequences, but it means only a professional record that allows the interpretation of the inheritance, enables the public to access information relating to the inheritance and provides a basis for the inclusion of inheritance and its protection in the educational processes. There is also a new definition of national wealth, which is that important part of the movable heritage which already requires certain conduct under the law itself, in particular in relation to exports and amounts, imports, etc. And the same goes for the archaeological rest. Slovenia, as a signatory to the European Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage, is committed to protecting this heritage, even if it is not entered in the register, since it is clear from the nature of this heritage that it cannot be in principle so. However, the system of advertising, as before, can be declared a monument of national or local importance by the State or local community. We also maintain the possibility that the status of the monuments in the museum will be established by entering the museum's inventory. The main purpose of the bill is to deal with inheritance, that is to say different circumstances when owners and other users of inheritance come into contact with it and it is important here how we treat it. I think we will talk a lot about different situations in the debate. Let me just write them down for a second. These are actions in heritage and monuments, the treatment of inheritance, use, trade, amount, export, as I have already mentioned, the preservation of national wealth, the pre-emptive right and decommissioning. The inclusion of heritage in development plans and plans in the area of space regulation is also an important focus. Here we have coordinated an important novelty, this is the so-called conservation plan for reconstruction, which takes place not only in the proposal for a law on the protection of cultural heritage, but also in article 56 of the Spatial Planning Act adopted by the National Assembly this year. In the field of protection, this is kind of the last third of the law, which deals with the powers of the State and the local community in public service regulation, the highest emphasis is placed on the public service, as it has so far been at the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage and at State museums, and we are proposing to re-establish the status of mandated museums. These are the museums whose founder is not a state, but they do keep important collections or carry out important activities and can be granted the status of an authorised museum, which is also part of the public service. The news is also enabling, supporting the integration of voluntary work into the public service. If adopted, the law will, of course, provide an important incentive for the development of the competence of protection by title, completion programmes, with a list of qualified operators, with contracts with large heritage owners and, in particular, by stressing the role of NGOs in the protection of cultural heritage. There is also a great deal of news in the area of protection funding. I think there's something else we'll talk about. Let me briefly mention that there is great news in suggesting that prior research into the archaeological remnants found at the time of the interventions and for which, of course, the investor was unable to know in advance, this archaeological research is financed by the state budget. The same is true when building on external archaeological sites, but it is for private investors who solve their housing problem or for housing construction in the area of solidarity. A system of compensation for the reduced economic exploitation of monuments shall be introduced where the regime prescribes restrictions that cannot be replaced otherwise, as well as joint programmes for the restoration of monuments declared by local communities and co-financed by programmes for the restoration of such monuments. Finally, it is also important that we have tried to introduce more possibilities for inspection action in the area of inspection measures. For example, if the owner or other operator neglects his duties in the protection of the monuments, it is possible to substitute the action of the State or the local community. And if the cause of this damage does not replace it, it does not offset the costs of these acts, it is also possible for the State or the local community to enter the land book, which will then lead to the provision of public funds. Transitional decisions are also very important because, according to our judgment, they will allow for a smooth and smooth transition from the current state of protection to a new regime. Finally, let me briefly outline what are the key novelties of the law, the extension of the concept of inheritance, the declaration under an agreement where the State and the municipalities can agree on joint insurance, the uniform protection of monuments and nature protection, the management of monuments based on management plans and the presentation of the evaluation of heritage in the space and the uniform presentation of digital material on heritage on the world web. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Cultural heritage is a proof of the human history and culture of individual nationality, so its preservation is both a sovereign right and an obligation of a nation or an ethical group to ensure its existence with the aim of maintaining cultural identity and strengthening national identity and thus contributing to the diversity of the world's cultural image. Whatever the general debate and further consideration of this law will take place, it is essential to maintain the fundamental objective of protecting cultural heritage, which is to sustain it and place it in modern life. In order to achieve this objective, it is therefore necessary to upgrade and update the existing system of protection of cultural heritage in order to address the shortcomings of the current law, which have so far hampered the quality, consistency and effectiveness of its elements in terms of its involvement in today's and future cultural consciousness and the image of Slovenia. Today, heritage is understood more broadly than just its traditional concept in terms of the cultural carrier of ethnic, historical, aesthetic values, as it also addresses the economic, spatial and social category of its importance. It is therefore necessary to adopt in the protection area the concept of the entire preservation of cultural heritage, which, in addition to the larger protection tasks, includes the prudent use of heritage units and heritage as a whole and its planned integration into sustainable and coherent social development with measures that will promote the possibility of preserving our heritage in today's way of life. The protection guidelines provided for by the law are designed, according to our assessment, to create the conditions that will allow adjustments required by the integration of heritage into modern life, so as not to prevent the development potential of heritage and to preserve its primacy at the same time. In any event, it is necessary to allow more active integration of cultural heritage into the developmental economic and spatial programmes, for which it is essential to relax this and excessive administrative rules and procedures. In addition, the protection regime, which is designed as a system of restrictions and prohibitions that does not allow developmental challenges to be revived and given impetus to enriching Slovenian space in terms of intertwining heritage values with the development needs of today's society, is an essential limiting factor in preserving heritage development. Cultural heritage is an important public good and one of the factors of development and protection and preservation must, in specific cases, be based both on national and local competent institutions and in the interests of users themselves in a broader sense. In this context, it is essential to encourage and include in the active role of cultural heritage conservationists also local and regional space, as heritage is still underutilised as a local and regional development opportunity. We agree that the owner of individual units of inheritance should not only be limited by protective measures, but it is necessary to include in the law financial incentives that, according to our assessment, will make a significant contribution to the preservation of a variety of endangered movable property, property and intangible heritage. Given that the current law was relatively unfriendly to the owners of the sites and even placed them in an unequal position with other owners, the new law provides for certain support for their renovation by improving access to financial instruments, which constitute at least partial compensation for the obligation to maintain and maintain them under a still established but more appropriate protection regime, in our opinion. The current right to compensation is also maintained in the event that the safeguard regime makes the conditions for the economic exploitation of the monument worse, with even more precise conditions and criteria for the award of compensation laid down in the proposal for the new law. The bill also eliminates the current dilemmas and problems related to archaeological sites and its cultural and historical value will henceforth have greater security ensured, as it removes the current regime whereby investors must fully cover the costs of archaeological research on the land on which they are building and puts them in an unequal position with those investors who are building in an area where there are no historical remains. In view of the current regulation, questions are also rightly raised as to how many builders have actually stopped building at the time of finding the remains and informing the competent authorities of the find and how much historical wealth has been lost and at the same time devalued. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the new law means a more appropriate approach to the protection and preservation of our rich heritage and therefore we support it. However, we believe that there is still a need for additional complementarities to some of the underdesigned solutions, so we remain open to proposals for improvements and texts of this law in the future stages of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Ms Maria Possonec has the floor on behalf of the National Communities. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings from the secretary of state with a coworker and everyone present in the hall! The new law on the protection of cultural heritage primarily constitutes the upgrading and training of the existing system of protection of heritage by addressing the shortcomings of the current law. It will set up an effective system of heritage protection that will enable the entire preservation of heritage. The continuation of the heritage, its enrichment, maintenance, renewal, renewal, use and recovery will be ensured. Heritage must be preserved for future generations, taking into account its values, with protective guidelines allowing for the changes required by the integration of heritage into modern life and not preventing the application of the development potential of heritage. Heritage must be actively involved in development in all areas and the law must enable its use, maintenance and modernisation while ensuring its protection. Now let me tell you what the cultural heritage of nationality means. These are the roots that revive us and our history, so cultural heritage is also of particular importance to nationalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič, please, on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! There may be quite a time when many experts in this area wanted an update, and the proposal for a law on the protection of cultural heritage is before us, the first being considered. This is a new proposal for a system-wide law on the protection of cultural heritage, which does not affect the legal and institutional system of protection of cultural heritage, which is established under the current law on the protection of cultural heritage. In particular, the draft law builds on and updates the existing system of protection of heritage by addressing the shortcomings of the current law on the protection of cultural heritage. The aim of the law is to establish an effective system of heritage protection that will enable the entire preservation of heritage, which means ensuring the continued existence of heritage, its enrichment, maintenance, renewal, renewal, use and recovery. Heritage must be preserved for future generations, taking into account its values, with protective guidance enabling the changes required by the integration of heritage into modern life and not preventing the application of the development potential of heritage. The aim of the law is to address the key problems that the current law on the protection of cultural heritage has failed to resolve: to improve existing protection measures and introduce new measures that the law does not contain, in particular with regard to respect for the existing professional experience and equivalent roles of different professions by strengthening new areas - heritage management, participation in development projects, maintenance of intangible heritage, preventive archaeology - rationalisation of the organisation of public service and other protection entities; systematisation of functional protection areas, from quality care and setting standards to the management of conservation and conservation projects; and the establishment of a public protection service at the level of the State and local communities, which is also necessary in order to establish the envisaged regionalisation of Slovenia. Funding protection - the fundamental rule is that the monument must be protected and preserved by its owner at its own expense in proportion to its capabilities and that the costs of heritage protection are borne by those it has caused. The law lays down, more precisely than the applicable law, who bears the costs of protection in different situations of inheritance protection. The State and the local community must also contribute to the preservation of the heritage. The law extends the obligation to finance the protection of heritage - with owners, countries and local communities - also to other entities that harm or do not use it properly or even destroy it. Obligation to pay for previous archaeological research. The law abolishes the current regime when investors have to fully cover the costs of archaeological research on land where they build. The law shall ensure that, in the event that the need for archaeological research appears during the procedure, the investors are subject to the burden of the State budget, in the case of construction or other land intervention that is not registered as an archaeological site, and that a preliminary survey of the area of the spatial act has been carried out prior to that. The State also covers the costs of archaeological research in registered archaeological sites, if these are building sites within settlements and are individual housing for the own needs of the investor or for the construction of social housing. Investors who deliberately build on well-known archaeological sites will continue to be excluded from the payment of costs for archaeological research. Investors shall also cover the costs of preliminary studies in heritage and monuments, where interventions are being prepared which constitute a change in the purpose of such a facility or interfere with its structural elements. However, when it comes to the normal renewal of the monument and research is needed to establish a safeguard regime, its costs are borne by the state budget. As has already been said today, it is an important novelty of the law, which specifically defines "living heritage". The law as a novelty also defines the so-called "living heritage" of immaterial, intangible heritage. In doing so, it is not limited to that part of the intangible heritage that is more directly linked to the material heritage. This is the knowledge, traditional crafts and skills needed to maintain and restore material heritage, including tools and other products, human creativity and its tangible expressions, such as musical instruments, social practices and their materialised terms and related objects and spaces. As it is said, it is a number of news and, given that today the law in the National Assembly is in the so-called first reading, we are confident in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we will come up with some proposals through the debate that can be of assistance to the proposer and for all other political parties, in order to obtain a modern and quality law that, indeed, as we say, would guarantee the greatest value and wealth of every nation, because, as we often like to say: for those who do not want to take into account the past, it is also questionable to keep it. As it is said, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are open to any additions that would give the law a further so-called added value, and there will certainly be a lot of speech and opportunity to supplement the proposed law in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. The bill deals with all types of cultural heritage, materially or materially and insubstantially, this is what is called a "living heritage" and a movable and immovable heritage. Due to cultural, scientific and general human values, the protection and preservation of cultural heritage are in the national interest. Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia explicitly requires the State to take care of the preservation of natural wealth and cultural heritage and to create opportunities for consistent civil and cultural development of Slovenia. Therefore, caring for cultural heritage is a very important constitutional category, as enshrined in the general provisions of our Constitution. In the section, museum and conservatory, the bill came up with a different response. The original position of Slovenian Museums and the Community of Museums of Slovenia is to need a special, independent museum law, such as library and archival law. Some other European countries have similar solutions. The specificities of this area of cultural heritage are highlighted in the Community of Museums of Slovenia. Museums are specific institutions because they have a double role to play - the storage, research and documentation of materials on the one hand and the interpretation of these in different forms, among which the museum exhibition is most typical. Without exhibitions there is no museum and without its important educational role neither. The contact with the environment and visitors he addresses is the foundation of the museum, that is, communication, which makes the museum not an archive, nor is the institution for the protection of heritage. This is why museums and museums as institutions should be regulated in accordance with this role. This is the case in the bill for national museums, but for others it does not. The bill is the most radically affected and changes the evasive system for financing museums whose founders are municipalities. On the one hand, we have 10 national museums set up by the State, and on the other we have 32 provincial, medo-Chinese and municipal museums. So far, their basic public activity has been fully financed by the state budget. In the past, this has already been tried to change in a very unhappy way. For the first time in 1999, by law on the financing of municipalities and for the second time in 2000, by law on the implementation of the budget. Both solutions were annulled by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia because it considered it necessary to settle the matter properly, within the framework of the Department of Culture, with the consent of the municipalities. It was the congregations that reached both annulments at the Constitutional Court. There can be a re-constitutional review of the new regime if there is no agreement between the State and the municipalities on this issue. The profession points out that, while the law recognises the specificities of the movable cultural heritage, some provisions still impose too much on the example of immovable heritage. The law brings about the reorganisation of a network of institutions that preserve and maintain the largest part of the heritage. The profession is of the view that all heritage in museums is equally important because it is territorially bound. In the proposal for a law, the importance of inheritance stems from the status of the institution and not from the importance of inheritance. The transfer of ownership and financing rights to the local community may result in a fall in the standards of the museum network or service. All too much will be the fate of the movable heritage, which, by definition of national importance, depends on the listening of mayors and municipal councils. In the area of the protection of immovable cultural heritage, there is an extremely large number of facilities that need to be protected and preserved. In the register of immovable cultural heritage, according to the 2000 data, 21,436 units of heritage have been registered, of which 7,672 have been declared a cultural monument. This is where the bill-maker sees the greatest gap between the needs of owners and users of cultural monuments and available budgetary financial resources. In 1998, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia unanimously adopted a law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia on culture due to the difficult financial situation in the area of immovable cultural heritage. Unfortunately, however, the cultural tolar law, as it is popularly called, has been very poorly implemented in all these years, as its implementation is somewhere between 32% and 34%. How great are the needs of cultural monuments owners, as well as the table in the explanation of the law, which shows an extremely large gap between the projects reported on the tenders and the funds approved. According to the requested appropriations, the appropriations granted shall be reduced by as much as four times. The owners are not particularly stimulated by expensive interventions to rebuild cultural monuments. As a proposal for both laws on cultural tolar, I have already proposed to the Ministry of Culture to extend its validity and to try to fully implement the programme in the coming years. The law preserves the Public Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage with seven regional units, but at the conservatory-restaurant centre it also introduces a centre for preventive archaeology. Even so, the law very precisely defines the area of archaeological heritage and points to a privileged or monopolistic position of that service. I think that these solutions should be reconsidered. The separation of the public service task of the public service and the field work should be considered. One field conservatory centre, which could also be called the Conservatory, Restoration and Archaeology Centre, would be quite sufficient. One of the analyses also provided that both centres could be privatised to an economic service owned by a market country and that they performed particularly important works for the country in relation to state-owned monuments or monuments. In this regard, I am interested in a more precise explanation of how the proposaler imagines this. We will not oppose the law in the Group of Social Democrats, but we will probably table some amendments in the second reading. We should consider organising a public presentation of opinions to confront the opinions of the professions and finally adopt a well-prepared law that will benefit the cultural heritage that we will preserve for future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Sajovic, on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u66	Good-bye to all of you! Mr President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings for ladies secretary of state and co-workers! We have an important and extremely wide and extensive law ahead of us. The Act on the Protection of Cultural Heritage is intended to further improve the protection of heritage and the rights and duties of owners and to set out the protection tasks of both the State, the municipalities and public service providers and other institutional guardians of heritage. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia such a law and these solutions in the majority part of this story and good purpose are undoubtedly welcomed. However, we are aware that in everyday life this law must be some real compromise between the desires that are always great and the real possibilities. I would add to this that in the past we need to see just enough so that when we go into the future, we do not stumble too much because of the past. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we hope that this will improve the protection of heritage and that the real situation will no longer be as plausible as the image of our cultural heritage in certain cases as it is now. When we read the law, we would like to find answers to how the proposed relationship between the state and so-called mandated museums at the provincial or municipal level and how the criteria for new status were to be obtained. We are also interested in whether future museums at local level will be deprived, questions are raised about future services for movable heritage and museums, on co-financing programmes and projects in the field of cultural heritage, on the autonomy of public service in the composition of the worlds and so on. However, this is an extremely important financial aspect. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we estimate that there is no real assessment of the financial consequences of the adopted law for municipalities, we lack relief in the field of investment in culture, we ask what will be the precise distinctions between the powers and obligations of municipalities and landscapes towards cultural heritage. We believe that the provisions of the bill on co-financing or public investment by the State budget are overly lax, and again, on behalf of the Group of Members as mayor, I point out what has been wrong so far, and I also borrow the text set out in the introduction to this Act, that "the most unsustainable consequence of protection as prescribed by the law on protection of cultural heritage so far is that protection has evolved primarily into a system of restrictions and prohibitions. The protection regime has been set up as a system of prohibitions, but there are no mechanisms of incentives and guidance for change." In short, the protection of heritage has become primarily a limiting factor in development, rather than guiding and encouraging development, of course, taking into account the development challenges that the retained heritage offers. I think that this is an important paragraph, and I hope that, in view of the readings that await us, there is some real compromise here, and that if the wishes and needs of this country are such, the country will make a substantial amount of resources to this effect, so that the greatest part of this story will not end up on municipal budgets, which, of course, cannot do so and then there are problems. In the Liberal Democracy, however, we would like to use today's debate to discuss the return of certain specific art in Slovenia, the 48th article of the bill speaks of the return of illegally removed heritage, the 10th article on national wealth, where art works - for example, such as that of Krapač's image from the Church of Sveta Ana in Koper, about which Slovenia began to negotiate in 1993 - no doubt they also judge. In this case, it is those paintings that were not taken illegally but by legal means, by law adopted in Italy in 1939, which meant and allowed only the withdrawal of works of art from war. And these works, which have their own ID cards, reverends, documents and all the legal notations that they are from Slovenia, cannot and still do not come to Slovenia. The pictures were to be taken only temporarily at that time. And there's something else you'd like to remember. Our Minister, Dr. Simoniti, was the one who wrote an introduction to the book in Italy of retained art from Kopra, Izola and Piran, on the basis of which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also issued a list of alienated paintings, stating the following quote: "The cultural heritage bears universal values that are not subject to the passing of time, his language is the most understandable in the place where it was originally placed." We would like today's debate to show some other outstanding issues that could be better and better addressed by law, and we want some key questions to be answered, which can lead us to further steps in deciding on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Ms Marjetka Uhan has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament, welcome, as well as those who accompany us! The new law on the protection of cultural heritage brings some positive improvements compared to the law in force. In New Slovenia we are aware that the law is complex, bringing together very different forms of cultural heritage [[Archaeology, museums, monuments, living heritage]] and that each segment might require its own law. However, as it is said, all of this is united in this proposed law. I have a feeling that archaeology is already well taken care of and that improvements are being made here, especially for owners or private investors, when it comes to assisting the state in solving procedures and financing the costs of discovery. However, we wonder if it is appropriate and will also be taken care of further for all archaeological findings, because already museums, depots are weakening under these discoveries. As we say, we welcome those changes that go in the direction of relief for the property of cultural heritage to at least partially relieve them, which means that more heritage can also be preserved. On the other hand, our cultural monuments, building heritage, most of all castles, churches, city centres, village cores - all that shaped Slovenian culture, identity. Nothing helps if a monument, a local community, or a state registers, declares a monument, and then does nothing to restore it, inhales a new function. There is a lack of funding for the reconstruction of this area, and there is a lack of planned work in this area. It is even worse because this is often left to local communities, the current four-year policy that decides whether or not it is a monument. We have congregations that are exemplary, and there are others who have no obedience to cultural heritage. The country should have an interest in this and be defined as an inheritance, for heritage is part of the culture of the nation, its identity. The owners are also not stimulated in the preservation of the heritage, being more damaged because the performance of the works is usually more expensive. While this law improves the situation towards the owner, particularly financially, we are not sure that sufficient funding will be provided in the budgets of the State, the municipalities. We support the idea of dispossessing the owner if he does not properly care about the cultural monument and leave it to decay, destruction. But once again, we're asking where these funds are going to be provided. Since there are many things related to financial resources, in Novi Slovenija we supported ideas about tourist fees in tourist centers, city cores paid by tourism consumers. The so-called cultural rent, which has been successfully implemented in the neighbouring country of Croatia, makes sense to us. We must be aware that there is no tourism without cultural heritage. Tourists are consumers of heritage, buildings, landscapes, museums, galleries, churches, castles, "living heritage" and so on. The country must start deliberately with the restoration of cultural monuments relevant to the country and provide adequate financial resources to that end. We must be aware that Slovenia is a relatively young country, but it has a very rich cultural history, and it is the task of the government to preserve and mediate this heritage to other generations. It's the only way to preserve our identity as a nation. And if we are aware of our roots, we can also be proud of our rich cultural history. The fact is that cultural heritage as part of national history is important for us who live here and also for those who come to Slovenia either as tourists, business partners or others. It is important that we know the cultural wealth which Slovenia has very much to preserve, which is, of course, linked to financial resources. The fact that the law is very complex also speaks of the fact that, at the time of coordination, adoption in the Government, the bill has been complemented and amended several times. All entities covered by the protection of cultural heritage, such as archaeology, museums, monuments, "living heritage", are so different that it is difficult to put them on the same denominator or to write them all into one marriage. Each thing, whether it is archaeological finds, museums, monuments or other heritage, is essentially so specific that each such entity needs its own law, but as once again, they are united in this extensive law. However, in our view, the role and task of the State is to determine which heritage is of national importance, to protect it more and to give it more care. Even though the current Government of Culture is spending more money, it is always too little money for everyone. That is why it would be good to think about the additional financial resources that tourism consumers would receive. In New Slovenia, we will support the bill and we will cooperate in its improvement in order to give the monuments special security and provide additional resources so that they will not continue to fall in front of us. Cultural heritage must be a national interest and we can no longer say that there is nothing we can do about certain things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Cultural heritage is part of our identity and therefore its protection should be well arranged and, above all, valued. The heritage reflects our past, the life of our ancestors, and it is our duty to protect it to the best of our ability. Let me point out immediately at the outset that the members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the Cultural Heritage Protection Act, but we hope that we will be able to make some changes in further procedures. We believe that this bill is far from complete and, despite the assurances that there has been extensive inter-sectoral coordination, we are not entirely convinced that all the solutions are just happy. On behalf of our party, I will try to make some of those disturbing points that actually bother us that we cannot give unanimity support to the proposal. In our opinion, the law places too much emphasis on archaeology and also modern art, partly due to the present intensive construction of motorways and with all the possibilities offered in this field in the field of archaeology. We believe that you are at least the same if not the stronger weight of cultural heritage. This is particularly invisible and, in fact, from day to day, from year to year visible, before our eyes collapses, especially when we look down on our hills, castles, city cores, village centers. Of course, we would not mention the sacramental heritage, which we may somehow be able to do as much as we can with our collective powers. This problem may not be so much a matter of unwillingness, especially a lack of resources. We would urgently need a complete list of monuments, which is not in our possession, we do not have a good review and therefore the situation in this area is as it is. So it would be urgent to make a list, for example, after the threat. We have monuments of national importance, monuments of local importance, which is not systematically well arranged. We believe that the cultural heritage belongs to all of us, and in fact, now is the question whether it is appropriate to decide, if left to the congregations alone, whether it is appropriate. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party also believe that we need a special law on museums and galleries and a special law on monumental protection for reasons of scope and speciality. We are also of the opinion that the law deals extremely much with the organisation of the establishment of structures in this segment, but not so much with the content itself, which we think is essential. The rights and duties of the owners of the monuments should also be better regulated and the treatment of the State should be regulated. Let us mention another segment, namely the problem of restoration licenses. In fact, the law abolished the licence in the final text, so it can physically affect the inheritance of anyone who opens the restorative company. Although we have inspection services in this area, we are afraid that this measure could reduce the quality of the reconstruction works themselves. Of course, we also agree that it is possible to introduce some competition in this area, but we believe that, in a certain sense, it should be more closely monitored who is the one who can deal with the restaurant. To conclude, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe that we need this law, that the law is, in fact, a good basis for further discussion and that in the debate itself or in the process of discussion or adoption, we will also try to implement those proposals that we have mentioned here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u72	Good-bye! We have indeed proposed the first hearing in the Group of Members in order to draw attention to those elements of this law, which we doubt and which present us with quite a problem. Of course, we now hope that these elements will be heard, after all, I hear that other parliamentary groups have highlighted them, and in this case, if there is a hearing, the law would be easier to support. I will only draw attention to solutions that are not appropriate to us, and it would be much easier to discuss this if we also faced a public presentation of opinions. In short, in my warning, you understand that what the law brings, I welcome and stress what the law does not bring to the extent that it would be good to, or, as we believe, it would be reasonable to regulate this issue. First, let me say that somehow we all expected that the law would bring so-called fees, you know, at the time he was preparing, the ministry suggested that we introduce a tax that would somehow help us survive cultural heritage. [[..]] The law, however, disappeared during the preparation of the bill, which, as some kind of parading, would consolidate the preservation and restoration of cultural heritage. I must point out that this is already the third resistance of the Ministry of Finance to the search for dedicated resources for certain problematic and non-sufficient solutions within cultural areas. Special duties were dropped from the film law, from the public book agency, in some way we tried to say hello to the literature and publishing industry in the previous week, and now they are also expelled from the cultural heritage. However, if the Ministry of Finance advocates an integrated budget and it prefers budget financing, which, of course, can also be justified, by the way, then it is not clear why to defend tax reliefs, especially those which you all made a lot of promises before the elections and before you came to power. Again, Slovenia this year opposed the proposals made by some members of the European Union to introduce lower tax rates for the renewal of cultural monuments. She obediently spit in her own bowl so that she could nod the big ones. We know that we have problems with funding for cultural heritage, but we know that certain chapters in the field of European level can also be opened. Otherwise, this law does not open the door to the possibility of fresh capital inflows in investment in cultural heritage, various regulations and restrictions still significantly hamper the flexibility of the use of inheritance - I say, on high rents, on long periods of rental and so on - which is why there is little interest in them. This is said to be the case if I move from finance to another area; the proposaler believes that future owners of cultural heritage will have better access to financial resources because, due to the protection regime, they have more costs for the restoration and maintenance of cultural monuments - which is true. But better access means only what is already valid to a certain extent. In fact, either within the framework of the so-called Cultural Tolar, which, by the way, will expire in 2008, or in the context of regular invitations to tender. The difference is that the public service will cover the preliminary research professions mentioned today; that is to say, those preliminary studies that the owners have now taken care of when it comes to cultural heritage, especially archaeology that has not been foreseen. Of course, it is a question of whether Dars, perhaps we will hear the answer today, whether Dars will continue to cover the costs of archaeological excavations in the future, where archaeology was not envisaged. If the state comes with research compensation, as the law says, then it is strange that, in the 2009 draft budget, when the law enters into force, we have not seen increased budgetary resources for this purpose. Indeed, it is even worse that the 2009 draft budget in the field of culture is declining when we look at it in the light of GDP; it is declining to the level of 2006 or even in 2000, which is of course a very big problem. Third time. Under this law, the Minister will be strengthened, his decision-making power will be strengthened - for example, in deleting monuments. As the deletion from the register of monuments is insufficiently clear, as defined, this could result in the Ministry or the Minister himself deleting the monuments, by non-professional means, that I may not say even ideological-political will. I think that Article 31 legalises the possibility that the state removes the monument if it is permanent, damaged and so on. It's some fantastic opportunity to remove, say, in a case like Rog, Colosseum, or even to expand, like, Lipica. When capital pressure is great and heritage defenders are powerless or too weak, many things can happen, including when the status of the monument ceases. Due to a lack of clarity in the law, a space for capital, political and other manipulations is opened up for cleaning and lustration. We should clearly write when the monument is deleted or should write more clearly when the monument is deleted, for example if it no longer exists or if there are seven copies of one graphic written and so on - to give one example. In short, the Minister shall decide on the issue of the existence or non-existence of cultural monuments. He's here without a lot of respect for his professional services. There is also a system of compensatory measures and payment to permit the destruction of cultural monuments. And this compensatory measure, as the law brings, can be an excellent "bypass" for all who have enough money or political influence to bypass the professional public service through the minister. Fourth time. The 106th Article of the Law is also worth attention, which states that those who own a large number of monuments, such as the Church, the explicit law in the article writes "The Church" or another religious community, can organise the activities of feeding, representing and so on cultural heritage. In this case, the Government shall conclude a contract with it to finance wages, powers and the like. This Article brings the financing of the RCF. The church is indeed the owner of a large number of cultural monuments, and it is already well supported by the country, we do not deny it. But with such a purely written solution as it is in Article 106 of the Law, and it is interesting that it has entered, as I see, into one of the last variants of the bill, now the door will open even more wide, not just the door, but also the state scrotum. Fifth. The law deepens the definition of cultural heritage in relation to the solutions contained in that law, which was written or adopted in 1999. In my opinion, I would also like to hear this, literally European refugees, to extend the concept of archaeology to postwar killings, because the law states that "archaeological remains are also war-related and killings that have been underground for at least 50 years". We know that the law defines archaeology as one that, I think, is 100 years old, if I'm not mistaken, some minimum length of time. And here they come as archaeology, and they get status as well as postwar remains of the beatings. If we view postwar killings as cultural heritage and if we know that the country will cover the costs of research into cultural settlements, as this law entails, then this should also be known in the budget, if we are talking only about one effect of this article, not to mention others, for this is the least that can be seen in this solution. It's a very important area if I'm going to point six, the area of museums. State museums will be privileged, so I'm afraid, but I'll hear if there's any other way of thinking. Therefore, the congregation is very dissatisfied with this bill. The museums, whose founder is not a State, must only obtain the authority to perform the public service. The power of attorney is vested in them by the government. Everything could still be okay here. But the current municipal and other museums, not only municipal museums, need to gain the status of an authorized museum, but I find it unacceptable that standards, criteria for obtaining the status of museums, will be established only after the adoption of the law. The standards will be prepared by a service that will operate in one of the national museums. This means something such as setting the criteria for obtaining citizenship by the Minister himself without being mentioned in the law. That seems unacceptable to us. This also means that some will simply fall out of the game. And intellectual work outside Ljubljana and the larger cities will thus be impoverished if those who now operate are thrown out of the game. They already have a worse starting point, and there is a risk that they will be in even worse shape, because the proposed state will only finance mandated museums in part, i.e. 80%, without infrastructure, investments etc., which will be the task of local founders. However, the state will not finance teaching activities, exhibitions, research, etc. Money will be given to the congregation directly, not to the museum, but to the present - day calculation. But since the law is written in the option of the future establishment of the provinces, there is no distinction between the powers and obligations of the congregations and the provinces, which is also a major flaw. The law on museums also introduces greater power of the ministry if I go forward, so some experts think, I have consulted with many that the ministry can determine, for example, which exhibitions are being prepared, which pictures are being bought, etc., that its power will be increased or its power increased. And I know that Minister Simoniti is already doing this when he decides which teams are being removed from the exhibitions, if I mention only the last case. It is a decree, not a decision of the professional bodies of the institution. Otherwise, the founder also has the majority. Eight. We have already heard today that the Community of Museums of Slovenia believes that museums need a separate museum law to regulate the tasks and status of museums, because the area of operation of museums is too wide because they document, investigate, exhibit, interpret, educate, etc. But since the museums are placed in a single law, which very generalises the museum's work, but mainly deals with national museums, and leaves the rest to a sub-law, which is unacceptable, the confusion will be great. Museums are therefore afraid of the future. The bureaucraticization of the system, which is very present in the law, will not trigger a new launch of the museum. Nine. The Museum Society considers that the transfer of the institution's rights and ownership of the museum to the local community can mean a fall in the standards achieved. Municipal museums that now perform public service are concerned about their fate, as it is not clear whether local communities will be interested in them. It's about authorized museums, which, as I said before, will only be granted status. It is also important for authorised museums to have the right to perform the public service for a certain period of time - this is a complete breakdown. Sustainable work is thus transformed into a project task, which means that the personnel will be available for, say, 5 years, for a certain period of time, and whether there is a risk that a particular continuity will be interrupted. The results of the public service can also be passed on to others, including territorial ones. So from one place to another. If I make it as simple as it was in the time of imperialism when the British took art from Egypt to London, you'd say the locals couldn't keep it. Eleventh time. It is also bad that the department of heritage and museums will operate at one of the state museums. This is a very important part of the law, which is strongly opposed to it. Instead of setting up an agency, for example, an independent agency to take over the tasks of a cultural heritage institution, the museum service, which is not a small task and is also the consultative body of the minister, leaves to one, perhaps, specific national museum. But watch out! The tasks of this service are not irrelevant. This service will be easy: from an inquisition to an analytical office, and above all, it will advise the minister. She's completely misplaced. She doesn't know who's controlling her or who she's responsible for. It falls under the state museum or advises the minister. Who, for example, will the minister turn to when he needs counsel? At work or at the director of this museum? Is this museum privileged over other museums? In short, the solution is not a good one, and we suggest that we may introduce an independent agency here that can manage administrative tasks for a movable and immovable heritage. In this way, he will carry out administrative tasks in the institution for the protection of cultural heritage, he will choke on it, and the institution is in the composition of the Ministry and in some ways politically dependent, while also monitoring and managing. If I'm nearing the 12th point and the end. For example, illogicality and inanimateness seem to us that the museum management body must agree with the inclusion of material in the inventory book, but it is not clear what happens if this does not happen, it is said that this does not happen. Such a solution introduces one great deal of mistrust into the work of curators who are no longer so independent. From the Bled Congregations, we were warned that the part involved in co-financing programs was very loosely written. And it's true. We, too, fear that it is not at all clear in which cases and in what way the state will help to preserve cultural heritage. If I mention another 135, if I'm not mistaken about when an archeological discovery is to be reported. The person who keeps it must report it within one year after the law has been enforced. The Secretary of State said that in the presentation. In the case of a collection of State importance, it is proposed to place it in a museum collection and the owner will be reimbursed for the expenses he had when he kept it, for example, a recognised cultural heritage. But it's essentially a solution to how forgiveness may be granted to those who don't say, to thieves who have acquired their inheritance in an illegal way. The state will pay them to own something that wasn't theirs. Some interesting form of amnesty, which is supposed to be in the public interest, will certainly benefit those who have acquired cultural heritage in an illegal way or otherwise. I have mentioned some perhaps more looser thesis that really worries us, which would make us reject the law, but perhaps if there is good will, if there is even a public debate, to make changes, in the amendments. That would be possible if it was good enough. In this sense, it may be appropriate to push the law forward, but on condition that it is added, regardless of the fact that the coordination was something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Member Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u74	Thank you very much and very much for saying hello to everyone. In the Slovenian side, we consider that the law is not suitable for further consideration, as it is rather imprecise. It should remove whole chapters that are already regulated by other laws. Something in the existing law is better than in the new proposal, so the law is definitely too long. Nor is it fully in line with the global standards of international conventions and provisions on the protection of cultural heritage. It is also unclear why or how this law was made. On the basis of a comparison of which laws, whose countries, we know for sure, are two of the best laws on the protection of cultural heritage Spanish and Norwegian law. The Norwegian law has only 16 pages, while ours is very wide, unreal and largely written for bureaucrats and private capital. Once again, I say that the law is a proposal and that it does not treat cultural heritage as a whole, but rather rather merely archaeology. Research is already mentioned only in archaeology, as if no research is carried out in other areas of cultural heritage. I think that's very bad and very wrong. Moreover, I wonder whether the law is in line with the building law. I think there's a lot of wide differences here, too. If we go to substantive comments, we have quite a few. Article 3(1) asks what and why it is possible that only military material is highlighted in the law and why industrial archaeology, which is already established by international conventions, is not taken into account. It seems that we have not yet taken this or that those who have written the law have not read the international documents. If we move on, you can't look at all the points because there's too many. If we take paragraph 26, which speaks of finding the archaeological remnant, we have in paragraph three: "an authorised person must, within the time limit referred to in the preceding paragraph, investigate whether it is an inheritance". What does it mean to explore? The expert finds that it is a national heritage or does not determine it or finds it is not a national heritage. I don't know what I'm supposed to do in this area. In Article 34, which speaks of the financing of previous research, paragraph two, second indent, "transitional research of the monument..." and so on. But the monument is not always a monument because it can only be an inheritance. The monument is specific, the heritage is wider. In the third paragraph, which describes where the costs of prior archaeological research are covered. Again, we have only here and only talks about archaeology. Research is also used in other heritage, in heritage, where we have certain leafy material, archives and so on. It's also an inheritance, and it's being explored, but here at the Ministry, it seems, they don't know that. Also in the third paragraph, in the second indent, when we are talking about the release of building land. This is a highly questionable formulation that can be used in one way or perhaps intended to release an archaeological area of unsupervised construction when someone comes with sufficient capital and will be able to achieve it in accordance with the second indent of Article 34(3). Article 35, paragraph 1, states that the Ministry may allocate additional funds to the province or to the municipality. Why is there not a precise proportion of the State in this provision? Is this about politicization in the co-financing of research or in the regulation of cultural heritage? We could have written that the Ministry in 50% is going to the province that share. Similarly, in the second paragraph, it all binds together to the preceding paragraph and is, in fact, unnecessary if we already have a point in the first paragraph. In paragraph 4, funding shall be limited in the preparation of the programme for a period of up to four years. How can this duration be limited and the relationship between renewal and time precisely determined? This can be determined for smaller monuments, for smaller operations. The problem is also what to do when the congregation has a monument but does not want it to be restored. There are no sanctions, and the monument can collapse peacefully. Here I think that this is also bound to the first paragraph of Article 38, which says, 'the owner must protect the monument in proportion to his abilities'. That is to say, if the congregation does not have the ability to protect the monument, this monument can collapse peacefully, collapse and - then what? In fact, what does the owner's ability mean - whether it is to impose costs on a natural person or owner who may not be able to do so if we exclude the municipality, but at the same time that law does not offer him any tax or other relief. In this regard, it is also very pointless that in Slovenia we have funding for donations only for 0.3% of the profits of legal persons. Where they really intend to protect national heritage, national cultural heritage, this percentage is significantly higher. And it's not only 0.3% tax relief, it's a lot more. If we look at the fact that 0.5% of profits can be made for the Roman Catholic Church, we find it very careless not to give anything more for the Slovenian cultural heritage, which is also in other areas, not only in the church area. If we move on to paragraph 39. Here, the protection regime limits the scope. We think that this scale should be much more real and much more lifelike. We expect that this ministry will handle matters differently, in particular in a way that will make life a matter, that something can be arranged, that something can be fixed, but not that, as in some articles so far, it will be possible to restore some monuments on the political line, but that some monuments will not be renewed. Unfortunately, this marriage proposal allows and allows for this kind of thinking. If we take paragraph 53, which speaks of feeding archaeological findings. Again, it's about re-exposing archaeology. What about the other findings? It's not just archaeological finds that mean cultural heritage, it's also a cultural heritage. And how is it possible that someone must have proof of origin, when this was not necessary to date, except in a reference in a Fascist Italian law? How are we gonna handle this? The Ministry has not thought about this and I think it is bad and it is necessary to do so. We also do not have the opportunity under this law, despite the international signed documents, to require not only those of the Italians who are still in Italy, but also something else. If we take paragraph 55, first of all paragraph 4 and paragraph 5, we have only a speech on archaeology again. Actually, I don't know how that's possible. In addition, it is necessary to tell what the compensation is and what it has compensated for. The provision is completely unclear. What does that mean? This means that all of this will be left to the consideration of the Minister or a certain official, who will make compensation in certain segments, to determine the amount of this compensation or compensation. In some other cases, he won't allow anything. In addition, it is necessary to consider whether this may not already be regulated by property law and property relations. It also states here that an authorised person may walk peacefully in accordance with such a dictatorship, even if there are no findings on this property. The article's not clear at all. It is a question of whether it is merely archaeological remains or whether it is entirely cultural heritage, although the title of the article speaks only of heritage. Article 64, where we are talking about the provision of resources for the implementation of specific protection measures, makes it unclear the role of the programmes prepared by the relevant institutions, because a larger number of previous surveys cannot be planned. The means of covering the costs listed in the preceding Articles cannot be sufficient. And it's impossible to figure out what will be dug up in a particular site if I limit myself to archaeology alone. Let's move on to the general chapters. In the section on public service, we feel that the whole chapter is unnecessary, as the content is defined by the existing legislation, which the proposal wants to destroy. In addition to existing services, the law introduces new services that are even more burdensome to the budget and are written only on the hands of certain individuals who are close to the types of ruling coalition. Such attempts have already been made in the previous reference, when some ladies and gentlemen have tried to frame their employees and servants who have been faithful to them in certain positions, as we know from the case of various inspectors who have acted in strange ways and in strange ways, let us also say that they have taken them back at certain exhibitions or auctions. Despite the fact that this is inconsistent with the whole type of legislation of the Republic of Slovenia. When we talk about chapter 10, the implementation of protection activities based on titles and contracts and the exercise of specialised protection activities, this is already regulated in other laws. Why should all of this be repeated? When we talk about NGOs in the field of protection, we believe in the Slovenian National Party that this is the Roman Catholic Church. With this chapter, the country emerges from its cultural heritage, squandering it, which means that the heritage does not in itself beautify itself, but it is devalued. This is a strange way of thinking taken in certain Western patterns, but unfortunately they can boast of a substantial wider range of cultural heritage than of Slovenia, where we should look after every part of our cultural heritage. When we talk about oversight in chapter 12, there is a lot to be arranged here too. In the supervision of the so-called judicial experts, whom we know to be the rest of the previous regime, are people whose expertise is low and questionable because they have come to these positions only on a political basis. The most important issue was not professionalism, but political appropriateness. Despite the fact that it has been more than a decade since our independence, nothing has settled in this area, so we have such forensic experts who are doing enormous damage to Slovenian cultural heritage. When we talk about criminal provisions in Chapter 13, we can say that these provisions are permissible only by repressive punishment, otherwise they are totally unrealistic. All that is said is about monuments and archaeology, and the heritage is once again abandoned or deep in the background. But once again, the heritage is much wider. There is also interestingness in the transitional provisions. In certain segments, these are questionable. For example, Article 142, which provides for the relocation of inspectors from the Environment Inspectorate and the Space to the Cultural and Media Inspectorate. Yeah, well, these things aren't covered, because they're not all the same! Then why don't we take veterinary inspectors and move them to an area that deals with cultural heritage?Oh, my God! I don't know. It's weird. There's a lot of other things that don't make sense, and it makes sense that things are, say, hand in hand in inventory books, when you think we're in the computer age. This is also the rest of the former Minister who did not understand computers and, in my opinion, it was also deliberately intended for something to be included in the book, because the description, if we take just a coin, can be identical, we have two identical coins, Roman for example, but given the preservation of the price difference in these coins is also thousands of times or tens of thousands of times. A worn coin, for example, costs 30 euros, while it costs 30,000 euros in first-quality coin. They haven't taken it yet, apparently, at the Ministry. Otherwise, as long as they have different "parents" and similar at the Ministry, we can fear for both Slovenian cultural heritage and for having a good marriage. The withdrawal of cultural heritage from private collections may also be questionable, for certain people are buying cultural heritage around the world and then there would be withdrawal for the benefit of the state. It is not long before Slovenian cultural national goods were offered at the auction in Austria. And when the press asked the Ministry if they were going to file a criminal complaint for this, they said what you did, go to the police and do something. The inspectors who were supposed to do this acted inappropriately. And one wonders whether they even care about protecting Slovenian cultural heritage. And until we get in the way of such inadequate people, which are still huge in the ministry, we do not need such a law until then. Above all, once again, we will not support the law. There is a need for strong ventilation, corrections, improvements and I expect the Ministry to do so. If the law goes into further consideration after all, you can expect a whole series of amendments from our side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. The first one has the word of his fellow Member, Willy Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u76	Thank you very much. It went really fast, I see. By the way, let me mention, as has already been said, we will support the law. Personally, I also think that it is prepared well enough, comprehensively enough, systematically even according to some teaching principles, that it is also understandable for non-professionals to be able to support it. However, since this is a first reading, I would also suggest a few things myself in mind, which may be added to the Committee’s meeting later on. The first thing that falls into my eyes is that the law actually says that it is only about complementing and upgrading, which would be difficult to agree if, of course, it is seriously meant to change the concept of, say, conservative work into development, that it is not only about prevention, obstruction and preservation, but also about exploiting it as a development potential. If so, then it must be ensured that those who may cause damage by their actions also hope to have appropriate compensatory measures available. But when we look on page 19 at what compensatory measures are, it says that these are activities, interventions, and practices that replace and smooth the loss or damage to an inheritance. Maybe I didn't read the law carefully enough, but I missed something, but I can't find the tax return later on on what they levelled. And if it's so fluxible, so tenaciously written, then it may happen that there will be a lot of different interpretations, interpretations, even misunderstandings, and even worse. The second question that I am interested in is the problem of financing these research or preparing for research that is left behind, although, as far as funding is concerned, even a number of incentive measures are concerned, we remain on the ground that some on the market are so discriminated against, that we can talk about distortions of competition, because those who have land, even if a spatial implementing act has already found that there is a place of residence registered there, are, of course, handicapped and not likely of their own volition. Therefore, I think that we should enter more decisively here with compensations, namely financial ones, those who have adopted spatial acts because of the public interest, in the spatial act, public interest should always be ensured, and certain public funds should also be available here. In this regard, it is also mentioned on which land and under what conditions, under which construction is not to be financed. It is mainly about individual construction and construction, as it says, of social housing. And I would like to point out that, in fact, this is now a little bit of archaism, we no longer have social construction, I don't think that there is any more legislation to talk about, and that this probably needs to be rectified by a term that speaks of non-profit construction. I would like to say that the time is running out, that a number of comments should also be expected in the area of compensation, the original duties of the congregations and the powers that can be determined by the congregations by their own decisions, but this, we see, will be necessary to discuss on the committee over time.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Martin Mikolić.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I also believe that this area needs to be regulated by a suitable law if I am to ask myself first what was so regulated in the existing legislation that there is little or no regulation in this area. However, what has been so regulated by existing legislation that certain measures, specific tasks or legal provisions have also been carried out both at national and local level. Certainly this is important matter both at the state and local levels. I would say this myself, that the proposed law proposed by the Government can somehow be said to be a good proposal, at least I think, only in a few years, or we can say that it is good if the financial means for the implementation of this law are provided. Given that I at least partially know this material, much of what is also written, how it should be done, the content itself, certainly conditional on financial means, either at the state or at the local level. I believe that this proposal is somehow a good point for a second reading. However, I have some concerns about some of the articles that are really not clearly defined and I would like to point out this, say Article 13, which speaks of the book in the land book or the so-called seals - so we kind of call it - as regards the designation of the protection area or the so-called archaeological area. I don't know why the book would be marked only by so-called archaeology or this area, whereas the so-called building heritage is not foreseen. I think that if we want an area from this point of view, even clearly from the ownership point of view, because we are talking about owners here, this property will be marked in the land book or in this document, then we need to consider what areas we have dealt with: or just one or all of the areas to which cultural heritage relates. Now I have in mind the declared cultural monuments, not just one monument, but the entire area that has been declared a cultural monument. Article 35, which speaks of co-financing of future provinces or municipalities in so-called projects to restore monuments or cultural monuments. I think this article is beautifully written, but here I really miss certain criteria. I somehow always am and will also in the future defend the position that those financial resources that share individual ministries must somehow be distributed on the basis of a public tender. And well, here we are talking about next year, two about the cultural tolar, or we are talking about the financial resources that the Ministry distributes on the basis of a call to local communities or to future provinces. But from what I understand, these are financial assets that are supposed to be shared over here. And if they're going to share over this, then I don't know if it's enough or if it's enough that the community, which is positive, will decide, this year we're going to do a project to rebuild the cultural monument, prepare all the necessary material and "please" under the terms of the Ministry of Culture for Co-financing. Perhaps this is not so easy and it will probably not be possible for the Minister to decide in the final stage - this municipality will receive a co-financed financial share, and the other will not. Therefore, I believe that this Article 35 should certainly be supplemented. But when we talk about local communities or spatial plans, what the new Spatial Planning Act, which we have adopted in the National Assembly, will certainly need to be further specified from this point of view with regard to co-financing of the so-called professional bases. If you're talking about so-called conservatory programmes or plans, at least that's how I understand now the mandatory part of the municipality's spatial plan, that means that it's going to require funding for this part. Otherwise, it is somehow indicated that it should be the State or the Ministry of Culture. I am not quite sure whether this will be possible in practice, or whether this means that there is a sufficiently skilled staff at individual exposures of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, so that they can carry out these tasks in a qualitative manner. I know that the problem is cadre, which means 210 municipalities in Slovenia, which should actually adapt spatial acts according to new legislation, that this part will also have to be prepared in 210 municipalities. But the worst part would be that this part is carried out by an institution that does not actually know the subject. And it would not have happened that such institutions would have made money at the expense of the municipal budget or statutory obligations, but that the material would have been poorly prepared in the final stage. But I am aware that this is an important segment in the future. However, I must tell you that in practice I do not think best of all if the local community goes to certain local plans or implementing acts, this means that in any case where this is a matter of residence, as you have written, or for unwalled building areas which are intended for construction, it will be necessary to do so, because this will also be one of the conditions that this act will also be adopted by the Ministry of Culture or that consent will also be given by the Ministry of Culture. I also do not know if everything is clearly defined as regards the terms and conditions. You know, if it's written in the law that where there's no building permit, you don't need consent or for those parts -- now I'm talking about building heritage -- or those objects that are declared in some area for a cultural monument. It is difficult to define that you do not need cultural protection conditions for any intervention at this facility, especially consent. Here we are primarily talking about replacing roof coverings, replacing building furniture, restoring facades and so on. And I think that we have made the most mistakes here in the past, most of all because we did not do what we should, given what the existing law already does and that they are, otherwise we must be aware that the owners of these buildings are natural persons, that they did not then do so, despite the fact that you had to demand first the conditions of renewal and later the consent of the Institute of Monument Protection. If we make this even simpler, then I fear that certain areas from this point of view will be degraded or that these cultural monuments will experience not the reconstruction we want, but a completely different one. It also seems good to me that, you know, at the final stage, everything depends on the level of funding allocated to this area, that somehow the local level is too high to put on a different level or that the whole law is not sufficiently covered by weight. I think that many cultural monuments or those areas that have been declared a cultural monument, such as cod kernels, can experience renewal or preserve the status of cultural heritage if the local community is actively involved in this, mainly in terms of financial integration or financial assistance. In the final stage, if the local community has declared a specific area as a so-called cultural monument, then it is also right to play a co-financing role in certain operations. You, like the state, on the one hand, can't just regulate certain matters when there are consequences, which means that a certain measure will have to be implemented, but then they should be distanced. We, as one of the Slovenian municipalities, have in the budget certain financial resources for the renovation of these facilities. It is said where natural persons are owners, to co-finance in the renovation of, say, roof coverings or facades, etc. This is not funded from the state level. I remember that 10, 15 years ago he was a protection agency, then I think he was still a natural and cultural heritage, a certain investment, or a certain intervention where the owners of the natural person were co-financed. Certainly interesting is this so - called tax, which has been said several times today. I can't define myself on this. We know, however, that we have in the Slovenian space a so-called tourist tax, which is carried out or collected in this form by local communities. This is exactly where the funds are set out. At least she's supposed to be. But who does that come from? This is collected from those who benefit, I would say, this infrastructure or they are burdening this infrastructure. That's why it's a tourist tax. If another tax was introduced here specifically for certain cultural monuments, then this is the only justification in those places or in those areas where we actually have visitors who are also interested in this cultural heritage. But then we can't talk about what went up a lot of dust, I think six months ago, when the parish, now that we're at the churches, we started charging some kind of entrance fee six months ago. And you know what the hall was like about it. But that means that if someone charges the ticket to offer the visitor what he expects and that it has been carried out there, now I will say in the slogan, "load", and in the final stage, if it is only visual, you have to get some money for it, so that you can also then either put in the local budget or put certain financial resources into the state budget. Otherwise, we can't talk about a cab. But I can see it's not even covered in marriage, which I don't think is wrong. This may be one topic for the second time or when this law will once again experience new changes. However, I might point out that there is still a lack of defined, I would say, inspection services or sanctions if certain actions, if I may say so now, do not work according to the rules or conditions of the profession. I don't think this part is either, I'm not going to say that it's not yet clearly defined, but I guess there's something else to write down. In the final stage, to conclude, I too believe that it is right that this area is more clearly defined by legislation. This law, or this content, goes in this direction, much has not been sufficiently clearly defined in relation to the existing law, much has not been defined, which I believe is the law that saves. In any case, it will be necessary to include, until the second reading, those comments which were in place, which were good, also somehow directed by the debaters, so that we could then say that we have adopted a law suitable for today.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u79	Thank you very much. To your word, Member Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, dear colleagues, everyone else is present! In the debate on this law, I might limit myself to some practical issues that have arisen and are likely to continue to emerge in practice in the future, which concern the relationship between the protection aspects and the development aspects in this area of cultural heritage. It is certainly up to the correct amendment of this relationship whether this heritage will be properly exploited, renovated, maintained, preserved or not. If we look at the current situation and look back a little bit in the past, we can see that we have had a range of very different cases with relatively restrictive policies in this area. Despite the fact that the institutions, which have been very restrictive about this, have interpreted the rules and guidelines in force, we have witnessed to many people. In the future, I think it is right that this relationship, as this law will define, also applies in practice, because it is probably in everyone's interest to restore the heritage that needs to be restored, which has reached its time limit somewhere, I am talking mainly about building heritage, in an appropriate way to renovate and enable its proper exploitation for those who are supposed to have something of it. Here I am thinking mainly of these, I will say, rather strict approaches that were not needed in the past. For example, it is still happening today in many cases that it is a building heritage, a house that is protected by some relatively sweet regime, when it is simply not possible to get guidelines for the building to be demolished and that it is rebuilt on the basis of guidelines that are such as this facility is supposed to look like. I don't think it's necessary, it's bad, it's bad for everyone. Then what's going on? Then this investor gets an expert opinion, which, of course, pays properly, and this expert finds that in terms of security, the facility is so unstable that it needs to be broken. That's bullshit, by the way. It's a waste of time, energy, throwing money through a window where it's not necessary. But the truth is that in the last period, at least in the area from which I come, the policy of this service, which is responsible for this part of the protection of an inheritance, is different. And that also because of this different policy, many things happen in nature. A number of objects that could not be renovated, restored, well-valued, have been reinvented in recent times because of this different policy, I will say, restored, dedicated to what they were meant to be, and thus allowed their proper exploitation - or in such a way that people got their apartments in them, or in such a way that visitors could, without fear of being hit on their heads, look at them. The technology of construction materials is moving forward and it is quite clear that in this period in which we are now living, we will no longer be building from stone than 200 years ago. And that's normal logic. As is perfectly normal, we probably don't heat the objects in the same way that they were heated 200 years ago, but otherwise. However, this is not an obstacle to disregarding the proper guidelines and the appropriate conservation guidelines and not ultimately gaining the image she once had and deserves to have it in the future. The second part, where I see progress in this law, is this part that relates to archeological excavations. Several times in the past, an investor of a housing facility encountered certain things that needed to be valorized, dug up, protected. What happened? There has been an interruption of works, a decision, I don't know, a concrete case to put 50 million former tolars at the expense of some institution that will do so. And this is where the story usually stopped because the financial structure couldn't handle it. That was bad for everyone. It was bad for that environment, for the investor, even for the country, if you want. And I think that this experiment that we're witnessing here in the law, that part of the costs are passed on to public funds, is appropriate and the only possible. Because I think that it is things that are in the national interest, where it is necessary to assess whether they are so important that they need to be valorised, preserved or not and, accordingly, acted in the future. It is impossible to turn these things into those who have just had this accident or happiness, if you want to, however we take it to bump into these things. The area, which has so far been somehow regulated, partly or in several segments, is the area of the museum service, and I think that this proposal, which we have in law, is a good one, these four categories of museums, I think are an appropriate form of implementation of this activity, and I also think that it will be possible to valorise all that this service has so far. I therefore consider that the law is a major step forward in view of the current situation, that it is of course important, not only the law, but also some direction that should ensure the proper implementation of these legal provisions, which is already a type of ministry policy or policy in this area in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I call to the word of Ambassador Michael Prevac. [[He's not here.]] Member Slavko Gaber has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, all present! The Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage is extremely important and challenging and extremely important for the image of Slovenia in the future, because we can be proud and happy to have an enormous amount of cultural heritage, and we must certainly take care of it properly. It is true that what has been said today has been repeatedly that we do not maintain all aspects of cultural heritage in an appropriate way, do not renew or worry about its existence. The village’s city’s cores and castles are particularly affected. And yet, the destruction of castles began to a large extent during World War II, many were burned, many of them because of the occupations, and many without necessity, more for ideological reasons. Of course, some castles have suffered a sad fate even after the war, or the existing cultural heritage has been plundered many times since the war, and this is the part I want to focus on in this debate. The fact is that we have also tried to solve some of the issues in this area by means of a so-called cultural tolar. This report also states that it is poorly realized that the realization of this is bad and that this is also one of the reasons why some monuments and cultural heritage do not revitalize and preserve. Perhaps this was when the law was proposed and confirmed, a more political tactic, because one of the reasons that leads me to this is that today, for example, it is not in the Chamber of the former Minister of Culture, Mr Školč, our colleague, and that this is part of the bad conscience that this has not been realized. However, I am glad that in recent years, after this data, a percentage of the realisation of this cultural tolar has been growing slightly, and I hope that it will be useful. When I mentioned castles that were looted after the war, this matter touched the chapter of the basic instruments of protection. Here inside, there is also Article 48 in the law, which has already been mentioned today - the return of an unlawfully removed heritage. And when I look at this article, which is the return of the illegally removed heritage, and the subsequent articles, in fact, refer only to the return of this heritage when it comes to returning from abroad or from Slovenia to another country of the European Union or to another country of the European Union. And in the end, it says that some of these matters are still being resolved by a special law. Of course, this is important, because we know the case of the sacral images from our Primorska, which - I hope to get them back from Italy as soon as possible and that efforts are under way. And secondly, what in this law and, and I don't know if there is any way to warn in this law, are those who were impaled inside. Two such examples from my congregation are pictures from the castle in Slovenska Bistrica and pictures and all the rest of the furniture from the Baroque castle of Statenberg, which was excavated in the 1970s. What is unheard of and unacceptable - it was no longer the product of revolutionary violence after the first years of the castle in Slovenska Bistrica. That's where it went mostly to private collections. There are rumors among the people in which the houses of prominent officials of the previous regime still hang these paintings and the wealth of this furniture. And as a Bistrician, I must say that these paintings from the castle must come back to the castle, regardless of its ownership of the future. As it is important for the country that cultural heritage, art is a noble nation and that the reputation is enhanced, it is also important that what has been brought back from some environment. It is unheard of that those who are now reading to us do not know what is possible, but at the same time they are the permanent owners of the collections that they have taken illegally. And I don't know, it should probably also be defined with some article that the state must carry out all the procedures, that the consequences of such vandalism in the past, in the previous regime, or "ever", "anyhow" are also neutralised and that these things are arranged that those important monuments, building heritage, not to represent something outward, but that this heritage, which was present and the "wholeness" of this monument, will also be present for future generations, in that natural environment where it exists. I hope that, at second reading, something can be done in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u83	Thank you very much. However, Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u84	Mr. President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on the protection of cultural heritage is very extensive, I think too extensive or too long written to be more accurate. Indeed, in this proposal, of course, it is trying in some way to correct some of the errors that have been revealed during the time of the current law, and in particular to try to adapt to the current state of protection of cultural heritage, new knowledge and we consider all of this to be good. The other thing is that this law, however, represents some sort of time bomb with all the obligations imposed on the State and the budget, in this relationship, who is responsible for and who will pay for what. It is clear here that it is logical, then, that very much of the text is devoted to archaeological finds and archaeological heritage, because, of course, costs are very high. The other thing that he is trying to regulate in some way, however, I doubt that it will be possible to regulate, at least with such a text as it is now before us - depending on what the amendments will bring - is mainly that the current law or that the existing laws have somehow blocked the use of objects; now I am talking more than the building heritage. In fact, the law was, of course, prevented from interfering with many of these facilities and, as a result, could not be adapted to any modern - day needs. For example, if someone wanted to use the old facility or re-establish it as a catering facility, if it had previously been a guest facility, he had great problems because modern legislation talking about guest services was such that they did not transfer it, and so on. I must, of course, take a look at the previous debate on how someone is not here because they have a bad conscience. I think that our current colleague and former Minister Školč need not have a bad conscience. So many objects, as many cultural heritage as was protected, preserved, so many churches as were repaired during his ministry, are not not before, not later than today, not that we are completely in the clear. But what was vandalized in the '70s, and not only in the '80s and '90s, it is also necessary to write on the skin of our generations, which we had a word at the time. At least for the nineties, we can say that. They'll know what was going on with the Senowing castle. But most of the destruction was actually related to the fact that these objects were given in destinations for which they were not suitable. I hope that this proposal for a law on the protection of cultural heritage will be further wasted, added to what is necessary, but above all this financial optimism will be put on some scale, otherwise this will be a major problem for all budgets to come forward. If we look at this law now, the consequences of this law are not embedded in the 2008 budget or 2009 budget, which we will now adopt briefly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u85	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite the Ambassador of Magi. Boruta Saivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Once again, a good-bye to everyone. I think that today we have started this debate about Slovenia's extremely important law. Above all, we are focusing on solutions and professions, not on politics, and I must say that the views of the parliamentary groups, at least in the main of these matters, are very coherent. Everyone would like to preserve as much cultural heritage as possible, keep it for the craftsmen, but I am sure that we have spent too little money for this and we are also spending too little on it in the future. I have listened with interest and full support to the debate of my fellow Member, Mr Cernač, and I fully agree with it: one is, of course, to protect cultural and natural heritage at the principal level and, on the other hand, to face these many problems in everyday life. I must say that there are several mayors in the National Assembly - the reality on the ground is very different. Simply, if we do not have the means in the municipalities to repair roads, plumbing, schools and kindergartens, then simply do not count on us to spend much more money on this cultural heritage than we now have. I must say that there is also a constant conflict of interest, on the one hand conservation and on the other hand development. From the municipality where I come from, we have a large complex of former cotton cellars and wetlands in the city core itself. There were once over 2,000 employees, today no one deals with textiles in that place, of course conservators, and cultural people want the entire complex, which they have protected as a whole, to continue to develop with this purpose. In practice, this is simply not going to work. It is still in the interest of us in the congregation to preserve what was built 100 years ago and has some cultural, historical tradition, but those halls that were built in real socialist times, after 1945 until 1970, and they have nothing to look for there, and these matters simply need to be torn down and added new content. If 2,000 people could not survive with textiles, then you do not expect to receive at least 10 people from a museum or from some such content today. In the municipality, investors who are willing to invest in this complex are advertised monthly, ready to invest, and once we tell them what cultural and security conditions are, the labs throw us back and say, "The mayor, when you save this monumental protection, then we can talk again." Such complexes abroad preserve so - our complex is, say, protection - why? Because it has several thousand famous pillars, a few chimneys, famous facades and a few hundred roofs. And I tell you, in a foreign country, we would do this by keeping ten of the most famous roofs with a new content, out of a thousand interesting iron pillars, enough to keep them a hundred, because they're all the same. If you want the help of the congregation, we will cooperate as much as we can to make sure that it remains the way it is, but if we protect it as we have done so, then these roofs and these pillars will fall to the ground in 15 years under the weight of heaven, snow, and more than that, and in 15 years, we will have nothing to show anyone. Also from the museum, I must say I have a great deal of understanding and great obedience for these matters, because this matter is close to me, I appreciate it and respect it, the needs of the museums that apply for State calls are great, with the municipalities we follow them, but these museums do not generally "come through". What helps me to protect the museum if the offer for a roof in a market museum that keeps beautiful collections has been rejected three times, four times at national level? And if we can't maintain a simple thing like a roof that is the foundation of every house - then what are we going to do with the collections? These are the problems we face in practice and nature. Or an example, in the Market we found an investor who is dealing with an old city inn. Of course, there is no room for living in that inn without warm water and without modern heating, even in those moldy, dreary rooms without ventilation. And all of this cultural heritage will live on if someone comes to see it if we can market this view, and we need accompanying facilities that are suitable in 2007, not in 1907, and these are the years in which most of the facilities were built in the Market. As a congregation, we have devoted quite a bit of money to restoring the sacramental and cultural heritage. We're aware that there's still a significant understatement. Many individuals are willing to rebuild the roofs, facades, gardens, courtyards, but there is a need to find co-funders and the law that will ensure this co-financing will be the best and most effective law. In addition, things need to be looked at from case to case. I must say that we have a great deal of obedience among these cultural workers, but when we talk to them about the table, how to solve the problem, they present us with the law, they say, "Listen, respectable Mr. Mayor or Member, the law currently in force is that." The main message ahead must be that the past and the future give their hand in such a way that they see survival, including those in the future. The basic message must be that we simply need to devote more money to these things in addition to more understanding and understanding. So far, so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u87	Thank you very much. To my word, Ambassador Jeraj. Here you go. You're giving up. Thank you. Member Marjetka Uhan has the floor. She's not here. Only Bevk has the word. He's not here. And Member Branko Marinic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Respected and respected! In an interesting debate, there were many things that would be considered to be really trying to find another solution. But let me try to somehow shape my impression through this debate. You know, it is true that in some given situation the situation may not be the best, but it is not as bad as some of you have expressed it. Since I come from the oldest Slovenian meat, from Ptuj, I have experienced many things with citizens and citizens who deal with this cultural heritage there. Not only the city of Ptuj, but also the surrounding area is extremely rich as regards cultural heritage, as we could say for all of Slovenia. However, there are certain specificities that would be taken into account at this time of globalisation. At least some of the debaters - I don't think that's the best, but maybe right - are aiming at a country that is the one that is most responsible for the loss of cultural heritage, not to be maintained, but less at putting it in market economic terms. Because I believe that many people know or know how they have done this in other European countries. The proposal provided us with some information from other EU members, but I would point out something here that would be good to take into account in the Republic of Slovenia. When it comes to cultural heritage, conservation and provision of funding resources, it is also necessary to take into account the market or economic aspect. In my firm belief, everyone who is rich, a city, a place, a landscape, a village that is rich in this cultural heritage - it seems a great foolishness to interfere with this city's core or the edge of the city's core, to enable wholesalers to come with their commercial facilities - to this account and cultural monuments fall for this price. A concrete example - I said that I came from the oldest city - happened in Ptuj when the cultural monument fell because the trader could come with his trade to this area. Is it not better in such Slovenian cities where we have such a rich cultural heritage to direct economic and market aspects to the marketing of these cultural monuments? That those who engage in tourism design and market tourism as such invest in the preservation of these objects or other cultural goods in terms of cultural heritage. In the proposal for a law on the protection of cultural heritage, the proposer also thought in this direction, and this seems important to me. Many of you even touched this debate when you discovered that on many banks, hills, there were castles that were falling in a clarinet. Look! Why should the owner, the state or the congregation, the local community, or perhaps later the province not have this cultural monument or the castle, if you want to sell, sell and thus prevent such a cultural monument from falling? There are quite a few of them, and many point their finger at the land that owns this castle, and they have done nothing about it, and the congregation has no money. It is therefore right that we now turn things around from this economic point of view, a market perspective: such an object is sold out - with the Government's decision as stated by the proposer - and under certain conditions, in a transparent way that there would not be any rediscovering, that someone would sell something on their own, but that it should be public, that it should be transparent. People who would like to buy back the perishable cultural monuments, which are now declared a cultural monument at the state level and owned by the State, would like to make sure that they do not find what would happen in it that the profession would decide. Sadly, though, in the past many castles have fallen because of the inexpertial management of such and other repairs of the castle if we have not already settled a family under the lovely sky. In short, my thinking is going in this direction, but in providing funding for the future, we need to think more about how these facilities need to be handled economically, market-driven, because this requires the globalisation of the 21st century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u89	Thank you very much. And to your word, I invite the motioner, the representative of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Look, I'm going to try first to sum up some of the main points that came to me in this interesting debate in the National Assembly, which I thank you all for, and then, let me, I'll go out and answer some specific questions or initiatives that I've been able to write down. Indeed, the aim of the proposer was in particular to prepare such legal material that would enable the resolution of those problems in the implementation of the current law on the protection of cultural heritage - as we know, this law was adopted in the 1999 National Assembly, so to speak, is relatively new. For my understanding, the most questionable thing that is now being done on the basis of this law is that it is not actually the building blocks of protection. It may happen that an inheritance, which is only registered in the register of cultural heritage, then requires a stricter regime from the owner than for a neighbouring property which is declared a cultural monument, while certain interventions are allowed in it, while in this same inheritance entered in the register there are excessive demands and this throws a poor light both at the waist and prevents the implementation of protection because the owners obviously also know that there are problems here and then in different ways avoid their obligations. The current law focuses primarily on the protection of individual objects or real estates, which is the so-called point protection. I think it is also extremely difficult to achieve a consistent security policy in implementation, so I think that we can achieve this by linking such point phenomena in some general cases to protected areas and then by integrating these areas into spatial acts, much better results can be achieved in the long run. A major problem has also arisen with the separation of the protection of natural and cultural heritage. Now we have double systems, two types of regimes can be applied in the same area, fellow natureists and conservators are actually writing from table to table, although sometimes they are still sitting at the same writing table. Of course, the current law also does not allow the protection of 'living heritage', but above all, as you have already seen, problems arise mainly in financing protection, financing research. In our view, all types of heritage research, whether archaeologically or otherwise, are part of the public protection service. And only in the event that such research deliberately interferes with the material state of the inheritance must such research, of course, burden the investor. Otherwise, we would have achieved that, in fact, the investor could impose a new and new research on the public service, which, of course, would also be reckless. It is also correct to conclude that inheritance is, or, rather, to say, the values of inheritance are public goods. Heritage as a material phenomenon is, of course, the property of someone and here, as I have already pointed out in the first place, must be weighed between the rights of owners and benefit public protection. This, of course, has not always been the case with us. Protection was as strong as other activities under the influence of leading ideology, and here in the 1950s there were such problems, delays, damage to the heritage that it now takes a lot of effort and also public resources to at least some of these matters to be rectified. In short, anywhere in the world, I do not think there is a country that can only provide from state resources all the financial obligations arising from protection. There is a need for everyone to cooperate, it is necessary to ensure the proper attitude of owners towards, of course, providing opportunities and facilitating their work and encouraging them and that everyone has the right or opportunity to obtain public funds. We will actually achieve this only by understanding protection as a development category, which has been highlighted several times today. It is true that Slovenia's integration into the European Union requires such a change of attitude from us, as it is possible to use structural resources for heritage protection projects that are development-oriented. Such thinking will also have to be included in all other protection activities. But it is true that all the heritage, as I said in the first place, cannot be protected equally. It's not all the same. We cannot say that whatever is found in Slovenian territory, appears as an inheritance, must be 100 percent as protected. This also applies to the heritage that is in museums. We know that at a certain time something like this has also come up, which is not the most important thing, which is the damage to the means of protection. Deposits of museums and archaeological deposits are full, and some steps need to be taken here to regulate the situation. That's why I think it's right that we're not just trying to get the current security department back on track. This is not where we argue that we are trying to make major changes in this area. It is true, however, that there are still 35 museums funded from the state budget, the founders of which are municipalities. Here we can say that the remainder of the previous system of self-government is still in place. You know, these are problems that have been falling apart since 1989 that haven't been settled for the time being. And our firm goal is to finally arrange for the founders to take on certain obligations, which will ultimately benefit only inheritance. It is now happening that the state budget must cover the salaries of all employees. We know that this is an extension of the situation, some museums have relatively good staff, and some have very important collections and special tasks, for example, I am talking about an Idrija museum that cares for more dispersed units, and only four employed conservators have to do their work. This is an extension of a situation that is not good, and I think that we need to take into account here, above all, what is public interest, how to ensure greater professionalism and improvement of working conditions, but not that we are going to maintain what has somehow hit us. We also know that there are a number of municipal museums that were established later in the 1990s and do not come into state funding because this is where the network of museums cemented the situation since the late 1980s. As regards the needs for a special museum law, the position of the proposer is as follows. Indeed, it might also be possible to talk about some countries having this so arranged. However, the protection and preservation of the heritage, whether it is in a museum or in any other form, must be placed at the same starting point of the situation and also the presentation of the heritage of the public in the form of exhibitions or other means of presentation and popularisation is necessary here, because without this the general public will not know the importance of the heritage and without it the protection is disabled in the long run. With regard to the new tasks in the field of preventive archaeology, which the applicant considers appropriate to arrange at the Centre for Preventive Archaeology as part of the public institution for the protection of cultural heritage, it was rightly established that this is an implementation part of these tasks, which is already being carried out to the extent appropriate within the framework of a private initiative. I think that such a path as the proponents have taken is right, because if we did not reach this separation between the provision of public service in particular and then the implementation work at the Centre for Preventive Archaeology, we could be in situations where funding is not allowed. I think that also by amending the financial framework for the implementation of archaeological surveys and research, it will be possible to introduce a greater order here and to prevent some of the problems that have emerged in this exercise today in the functioning of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage. With regard to the relationship between state museums and mandated museums, the proposal already sets out the requirements of what is, in fact, the possibility for the museum to be given public authority. Thus, it is not held that this is left to the minister or even to the museums or museums. The service has only the role of consulting or giving an opinion to the Minister and the Government in the proceedings, but this is not a decisive role. I think it is important that we also get a body in the museum area that will play this stimulating or connecting role. This issue is also considered by fellow museummen to be extremely poorly regulated, for the time being. So far, this is somehow being replaced by informal forms of integration in the form of a society or a community of museums. I think that these matters need to be regulated so that the tasks and purpose of such integration are better determined that we have placed the service in one of the national museums, but the only reason is that the applicant does not want to set up new public institutions in this area or public agencies, as proposed, is because we believe that with almost 600 employees in museum institutions it is possible to obtain people who will be able to carry out these joint integration tasks. As regards the issue of objects of cultural heritage outside museums and the control of these. Here, of course, we followed the provisions of the Constitutional Court, which ordered the applicant to regulate that article of the current law governing the management of mandatory data on sales by traders. Thus, both museums and merchants will now be obliged to verify its origin when purchasing or selling items. It is said that the verification of origin does not apply only to archaeological objects but to any object. In this way, the applicant also considers that there will be a slightly more order in this area. About the licenses. In fact, in the previous versions of the draft law, which was under interdepartmental treatment, we have provided for licences for the execution of specific works in the field of protection of heritage. In this consideration, the view was expressed that administrative obstacles should be put in place needlessly. We have therefore decided to introduce a softer method in the form of a list of qualified operators led by the Ministry instead of this heavy system of licences, of course, thereby obtaining some credibility. Because if an association or performers were to do so themselves, it could be more based on our judgment of an advertisement than on the actual verification of whether a particular contractor has the appropriate references or not. So far, references have been taken into account in public procurement. The contracting authority, in this case a State or a local community, had to verify the appropriateness of those operators who had responded to these invitations whenever it was a matter of ordering the renovation projects. Of course, this will continue. However, in order to ensure that, even in those cases where public funds are not involved in the renovation projects, the provisions governing the terms and conditions and the consent to the interventions have also included this possibility that those who give these terms and conditions and consents also require qualified operators to participate in the proceedings, which somehow replaces the licensing system. As far as taxis are concerned, I think this debate is irrelevant because the bill before you does not contain this mechanism. It is true, however, that the applicant in the 2008 and 2009 budgets has provided a million euros on the specific heading of the Implementation of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, which means that funds will be raised here to carry out preliminary research, as we have said before, as well as for other new protection financing tasks to be determined under the adopted law. Nor is it true that Slovenia opposed the introduction or extension of specific reduced value added tax rates. It was a tax on the renovation of apartments when it came to dwellings in their own directing. Here Slovenia has joined those countries that have supported this possibility, and Slovenia has also extended the validity of this instrument in the area of construction. With regard to the financing of archaeological preliminary research by the state budget, this means that Dars will continue to finance that part of the commitments that he has undertaken so far. If you carefully read that article of the law, there we are talking about the state budget, not the task arising from public service tasks. Delete from the register, it's not true that there's some kind of danger of being erased from the register. I've already said in the introduction that the register will no longer have the weight it has now. In order to prevent, in fact, the possibility that investors with funds would somehow purchase this by substituting a monument, we have introduced a special measure, namely that it is possible to allow exceptionally also the removal of the monument, but provided that the owner has previously offered it for sale at a price that takes into account its situation. That is to say, if someone refers to the fact that the state of the monument is bad and therefore needs to be demolished and made such an appreciation, then this valuation is also the basis - it is said that they cannot get a demolition permit before they prove that the monument was put on sale and that no one wanted to buy it for that price. I think that this is a suitable mechanism, given what can now happen, we know that in certain cases there is a reduction in the size of the monuments when the investor, the congregation and the memorial service agree on such cases, and so far no one has the opportunity to have any effect on the fact that such cases do not continue to take place. With regard to archaeology and the borders of the 1950s, here we have followed the UNESCO Convention on Underwater Heritage, which states that, exceptionally, it is possible to take into account as an archaeological heritage what is under 100 years of age in the case of remnants of vessels, aircraft and other matters related to armed conflicts. Here we have only expanded this provision that all kinds of remnants, which I think is also right, because if we had taken 100 years from when an object came under the surface of the earth, then, of course, all the legacy of World War I on the Soviet front would have fallen out and in fact all the interventions that we know are extremely damaging to this kind of heritage that this heritage is unsupervisedly collected and carried to neighbouring countries. Now, of course, there is no way we can act on this, but if we introduce this provision, it will be possible to act. As far as winning is concerned - now I'm jumping because I'm going in the order of your intervention. Authorized museums will have to regulate their mandate within one year or at the current museums, the founder of which are municipalities. However, the transitional provisions clearly state that the current museums included in the network have the advantage of obtaining this mandate. These museums will also not have to be registered in developed museums, but the Ministry will do so directly. This is said not to be an easy path to authorization. About the archaeological records. This is a transitional provision. This is a particular type of arrangement, in fact it is a major problem of illicit collection of archaeological objects. We know that all archaeological objects have been directly owned by the state all the time, but in the past it has happened, even by eye contact or even by both, that important and well-known people have also acquired these collections. In this way, as has been done in some other European countries, we have offered an opportunity for these people to report such archaeological findings within one year of the entry into force of this law and thus indirectly submit them to the public museums to which they belong. At the same time, I think that we are allowing this to finally be settled in some soft way, because it is in the interest of the public collections of museums to settle these matters backwards. Why would there be a proposal for four years to co-finance recovery programmes between the state budget and the municipalities? I think it is essential that we now find that these programmes are only annual and we know that it is actually very difficult to carry out certain actions in one year, especially since the procurement process is very difficult and because there are many difficulties in ensuring co-financing. I think there has also been a lack of understanding of what compensation under Article 50 means and compensation under Article 41 of the law. According to Article 41, the compensation caused by the perpetrator of the unauthorised intervention intentionally on the monument and charged with a fine of some kind cannot be called a fine because it would be a different offence, but in fact the damage done by the investor on purpose on the monument must be taken into account here. However, in Article 50, it is a provision relating to the return of illegally exported or transferred cultural property, and this compensation is intended only to a voluntary owner, that is to say, to someone who has bought, in good faith, an object for which it was subsequently proven to have been unlawfully removed from or brought out of the country. In any event, the State shall then have the possibility in the proceedings before the court to recover such compensation to a voluntary owner from the fact that this act of illicit export or amount has caused it. As far as chapter 10 is concerned, the honourable Member would ask which other laws regulate these matters. In fact, the law proposed by the Government to deal with the National Assembly will now replace the law in force. So it's not about changes and additions, but it's about a new regulation of the whole area. Nor does it argue that criminal provisions are limited only to monuments and archaeological remains. This also takes into account national wealth as that important part of the movable heritage. It is true, however, that criminal provisions do not apply only to registered inheritance, since we have initially said that entry into the register of owners and operators has no direct legal consequences, which means that this cannot be mentioned in criminal provisions either. About the transfer of inspectors. We know that one of the problems with the current law is that, in fact, an inspection in the field of inheritance protection leaves no possibility of action, but when it detects certain irregularities, it must inform the inspector of the area or of the construction that has the potential to act. As the new law will, of course, transfer these powers to an inspectorate within the Ministry of Culture, it is also logical that a certain release of personnel resulting from such arrangements at the Space Inspectorate will be arranged by transferring a smaller number of inspectors to the area of protection of the inheritance. And, of course, this is about those who have already dealt with such a problem and, of course, their expertise is not questionable. The question of the direct link between the inventory book and the registry. This was also one of the problems of the current regime when, in fact, the inventory went a completely different way than entering the register. Now, in Article 67, this is different. The second paragraph directly refers to the fact that registration in the register is also the basis for the inventory or documentation of an inheritance. Such inconsistencies as are written for example - non-profit construction, social construction - of course, we will be happy to take into account, if this happens, the possibility of amendments. This also applies to all other comments which - I think - are very justified and, of course, the proposaler will be pleased to examine them further. With regard to the question of whether a public invitation to tender is required to co-finance programmes for the restoration of cultural monuments at the level of the municipalities. Here, of course, we have also coordinated with the Government Service for Local Self-Government. This Article is in line with Article 26 of the Law on the financing of municipalities, which does not mention that co-financing must be made on the basis of calls for proposals. But of course, if the opinion is different, it will be possible to arrange it differently. About the enrollment in the land book. Of course, here the applicant’s position is that, when it comes to large areas of cultural monuments, the inclusion of each plot in the land book would actually be excessive. First of all, from the point of view of the administration, which is necessary. Above all, from the point of view of the owners of these parcels, because they would actually burden all parcels, including those within the area. Maybe even those who are actually not subject to any regime. Therefore, we have written down that the act on the resolution of such an area must clearly state which buildings or parts of that area are specifically subject to a specific regime. And then they get into the land book. So we actually tried to make the matter as operational as possible here. We also agree that the current system supports replacement construction. This is called the destruction of certain objects of heritage or even monuments and instead the construction of new ones, which is unsustainable. I think that if there is such a need, that there is no other way of regulating them, and that this is not a matter of speculation, which I have mentioned before, it is also right to allow such a matter to be actually removed. We have to be alive. Not that the ministry of protection, as well as the congregations, as investors, are looking for other ways that are more or less inappropriate. Maybe for the end of a few words about going back. The return of cultural objects is governed by a special law which Slovenia had to adopt in order to transpose the Council and the EU Parliament Directive on this issue into its legal order. Both the Directive and all other legal standards have been in force since they were adopted. Unfortunately, the logic of the rule of law here is such that neither the law nor any convention can apply back. This is also a key problem in returning items from a neighbouring country. We know that now, within UNESCO, we have been negotiating at national level for about a year and a half to ensure certain rules for the return of cultural heritage items between the first world and the second world. World War II, when we know that no international convention has yet regulated this area. There is also Italy between those countries as well as Slovenia, which supports such a way of negotiating. Let us hope that, of course, when these rules of negotiation are adopted between countries, there will also be more opportunities for agreement between countries on the final return of items after so many decades from the neighbouring country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u91	Thank you very much. So, for the 24th item of the agenda, which means the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, we had three hours and 55 minutes at our disposal. In view of the fact that we have time left to discuss, I ask, do present Members and representatives of the Government still want a general debate? Yeah. Then I'm opening the procedure. Please report all those you wish to discuss. No one has expressed their desire to discuss it. In view of the fact that only Ambassador Maja Shirtz has expressed her verbal wish, I will not open the circle, but I will just give my word to Mrs Shirci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u92	Thank you. I think the words have been quite enough, and I think that this time has also been very meaningful and cleverly spent because we have all been given more questions than we have had before. Personally, though, by the way, there was an explanation by the government. I did not get all the answers, especially why you introduced an explicit statement into the law that the church can conclude a special contract with the country and all those who are the great owners of certain cultural monuments with the country. Also, the explanation, the Secretary of State, that the bones of postwar beatings have become cultural heritage, does not stand up to your explanation that because of Unesc's recommendations on underwater remains or something like that, I understood you. In short, there are many questions left. I think it would make sense to draw up a public presentation of opinions also in the light of your willingness to include some of the statements that have been sent today from the Member States in the second reading of the existing law. The law solves the vast, very wide area of museums, heritage, archaeology, recording, exhibiting, while at the same time a very, very sensitive area of separation of the implementation of provincial legislation, which is not resolved here at all, is very important in the light of 2009. Today neither is the Minister with us, who should not know, you did not excuse him, we do not know why he is not present, which would be wise to give him answers to our challenges as well. That's why I'm the one who benefited from this discussion. But I will certainly join the signatories to prepare or propose a public debate on the opinions of these laws. Also because many experts in this field are not yet satisfied with this material. And if we already get a new law, or very quickly after 1999, it is right to satisfy the widest possible number of users and users, as well as those who will be employed in museum or cultural-security work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I also conclude the debate with this. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today within the framework of the voting point. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to 22. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE - TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTAL LEGISLATION LAW. The hearing shall take place on short notice. I would like to inform you, however, that we are looking forward to 1.05 discussions on this point. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Member of Parliament, Mr Prani Podrč. With regard to this bill, the Committee on the Environment and Space proposed to the National Assembly that it be decided that the draft law was not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the floor to the Committee's proposal to present to us or to complete a reasoned proposal for a decision. Mrs. Rudolf Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! At its 20th regular session, the Committee on the Environment and Space discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Housing Law, which was sent to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Merrani Runc, proposing that it be dealt with in a reduced procedure where less difficult amendments to the law should be made. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided to consider the proposed law following a reduced procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space at the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also took part in the meeting. The Committee has also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. The amendment was tabled by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. In the introduction to and explanation for the law, the proposer's representative stressed that, by amending and supplementing the housing law, he wished to ensure the purchase of an apartment under the conditions laid down in the Housing Act for tenants of denationalised apartments, including all holders of temporary rights to use housing if they had lived in such an apartment in 1991 and carried out housework. Where the activities of the janitor have been cancelled before the entry into force of the 1991 Housing Act or if they have retired before the entry into force of this Act and have retired or ceased to do housework without their guilt after the entry into force of the Housing Law. The proposal to amend the law is based on the fact that the right of former tenants to the temporary use of the apartment was based on a materially identical or at least very similar basis compared to housing law, as is also evident from the study of the legal and actual situation of the tenants prior to the adoption of the 1991 Housing Act prepared by the Real Estate Law Institute. Following the examination of that proposal, the Legal Service made comments on Articles 1 and 2 of the Act in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposed law amending and supplementing the housing law. In residential housing, housing rights were not acquired, but only a temporary right of use of the apartment for the duration of the work of the house. So it was originally for office apartments in residential housing. The government considers that the equation of household, in fact office accommodations for dwellings on which housing rights have been acquired in the past is not a systemic basis. The draft law was also addressed by the Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and was not supported. The debate expressed the view that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. In particular, because of the proposed solution to the housing for which a temporary right of use has been granted for the period of time in which the owners carried out housework and in this case some types of work flats are equivalent to those for which housing rights have been granted. On the basis of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the discussion at the meeting in accordance with Rule of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee decided to propose to the National Assembly that the draft law amending and supplementing the Housing Law should not be followed up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u95	Thank you very much. However, I give the text to the representative of the proposed law to Mr Potrč, for an introductory presentation of the position on the bill and on the position of the home labour body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Members and Members of Parliament are of the opinion that the 1991 Housing Act also in 2003 ignored the proper regulation of the situation of housewives and similar workers in housing. Therefore, on the proposal of the initiative committee of housewives and the delay in the Government's introduction of the law, which it has long promised, we have proposed appropriate solutions ourselves. We believe that the legislator has so far not deepened sufficiently in the fact that in the previous social economic system, prior to 90, the situation of housewives was closer to housing holders in social housing than to tenants in service apartments. The previous arrangement provided them with the same rights as housing rights holders with only one difference that the apartment had to be emptied if they had stopped doing housework voluntarily of their own choosing. This also persists in the discussions on our proposal for a law in the government and in the workplace, and it is silent or uncritically repeated. The bill therefore provides first for whom the proposed rights should go. These are the holders of housing rights or the rights of temporary use of housing in a household which, from the date of the entry into force of the housing law, have stayed in that apartment and carried out household or similar works. Furthermore, housing rights holders who have ceased to do housework before the entry into force of the housing law, but not by their own fault, but because of the decision of the landlords or owners. Further, housing rights holders who retired before or after 1991. It's after the adoption of the housing law. And they were not given a suitable apartment. Secondly, our proposal for a law provides for the rights to be acquired by these holders of housing rights or rights of use. These are: if the landowners demanded that the flat be emptied, which they have the right to, the Republic of Slovenia would be obliged to provide and the burden of free housing, comparable to that in which they lived. If the floor owners had decided to sell, they would have a preliminary right and the right to certain cash aid in accordance with Article 173 of the Housing Act. If the holders of the right of use had decided that they wished to obtain a second suitable apartment themselves, they would have the same rights as the tenants in denationalised apartments. However, if they could not or would not obtain another apartment, they would be provided with a non-profit rent. We argue that the solutions proposed do not interfere with ownership of existing housing, which some would like to report to us. As the law has defined property rights, so the owners remain and do not lose any rights acquired so far, nor until the lease is cancelled, nor until the sale. Another time. When we create rights, we form them within the framework of the system. So we're not inventing a new one, we're predicting the ones now enjoyed by tenants in denationalized apartments. We believe that it is right and right to guarantee these rights because it is necessary not to formally assess the situation of the former socio-economic system. And here is the basic error of the Government and also the decision-making in the parent's working body, which is only by title, but not from the actual position of the decision on the basis of the bill. And finally. On the basis of data from the Ministry of Environment and Space, some 250 potential beneficiaries might benefit from these rights. We'd be a few years apart. Therefore, there is no danger that the state budget or other funds will be affected. For this reason, we expect you to support the law and vote against the decision of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The Government also fully applied to the discussion or introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent labour body and the proposal for a law. I ask the Government's representatives for their opening remarks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! The Government expresses its opinion on the proposal of a group of Members with the first signed Mirano Ptrče, which drafted a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Housing Act, which relates only to the circle of so-called residential dwellings. It is suggested that this goes also to previous holders of the right of temporary use in residential dwellings who, on the date of the entry into force of the 1991 Housing Act, stayed in these apartments and performed a function related to the building or their function, ceased to perform before the entry into force of the 1991 Housing Act for reasons other than those created by them and were not granted a second suitable residence, and the rights to the so-called alternative privatisation under Article 173 of the Housing Act. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes this proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Housing Law by means of a reduced procedure. In addition to exceptional cases, housing rights were not obtained at the home apartment. Therefore, there is no systemic basis and conditions for alternative privatisation as regulated by Article 173 of the Housing Law. The condition for the privatisation of previous social dwellings was indeed housing rights. However, the right to, I emphasise, temporary use was conferred on residential dwellings for the duration of the work of the house, since it was originally for work housing. According to the provisions of the Housing Relations Act, which was in force before 1991, only a person could be granted the right of temporary use of the apartment in accordance with Article 40 of this Act, and I quote: "who did such work in the house where this apartment was located". On the basis of this provision, contracts have been concluded with the users of residential dwellings concerning the temporary use of the house by the Council. Their use was linked to the time of doing housework. At the time of the adoption of the housing law in 1991, the privatisation of the apartments excluded all the work apartments, about 10,500 work apartments, that is to say, household apartments. It is estimated from 2007 that between 250 and 300 apartments. According to article 157 of the Law, a householder who had to move out of his home for retirement or reasons other than his own, was obliged to rent a suitable apartment at his request. The transitional and final provisions of the law also included a provision whereby the users of housing that had ceased to function as housewives were obliged to empty a residential apartment within one year without their belongings to any premises unless otherwise agreed with the owners of the house. The users of residential apartments, former housewives, also have the advantage of renting non-profit apartments, since their housing status is ranked at 160 points, which is the second highest number of points. After all, more points from this title can only be obtained by applicants who are homeless, which is 180 points. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that, by equating household, in fact, service apartments, apartments where housing rights have been acquired in the past, previous social dwellings and apartments, which have been the subject of denationalisation, have no systemic basis. Therefore, there are no conditions for replacement privatisation under Article 173 of the Housing Act. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the amendments and additions to the housing law already submitted for interdepartmental coordination will be proposed to supplement the housing law with provisions relating to housing before 1991. In order to ensure the right to subsidise rent with the aim of preventing cases of social distress. If I take it back, I'll take it again. First of all - The Government considers that there is no legal basis for the privatisation of housing and second of all - The government, with amendments and additions to the housing law, envisages subsidisation of rents for residential dwellings with the aim of preventing or reducing social current tenants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u100	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, everyone else is present! We are considering the amendment to the Housing Law, which has been tabled in the legislative procedure by the Group of Members of the Group of Members of the Parliament of the Social Democrats, in a work governed by so-called housing. The applicants consider that the tenants of the residential apartments were overlooked by the adoption of the housing law in 1991 and that they were not granted the same rights as other holders of housing rights. Although the Housing Act was later amended in 2003, the rights of former tenants on house houses were equal to those of previous tenants on the premises which were returned to the original owners prior to the entry into force of the Denationalisation Act, as provided for in Article 175 of the applicable law. It follows from the magnetogram of the then meeting of the National Assembly that there were no comments on this provision at the time. He wasn't even put in any kind of amendment to this topic. The new amendment we are considering today proposes that the provisions relating to housing be exempted from Article 175 of the Law and that they be re-organized in Article 175a of the Law by extending the category of beneficiaries. A range of rights that have already been justified by tenants of residential dwellings, as set out in the 173rd and other articles of the Housing Act, is also extended. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the novel would go completely unwarrantedly to the property rights of a number of housing owners co-owners, since the owners of these apartments would be obliged to sell them at the price provided for by Article 116 of the Housing Act by repossessing the pre-purchase rights of tenants. So according to the methodology, which is a lower price than the market price of these apartments. This provision, in our view, constitutes an unjustified intervention in property rights that is not admissible and would only bring new disputes. On the other hand, in the case of residential dwellings, it is a rental relationship that can be compared to rental relationships in service apartments. The tenants of these apartments were around 10,500 under the 1991 housing law, without and without such rights and entitlements as other holders of the housing right at that time. Their rental relationship was linked to the time of employment with the employer, who owned the apartment and was associated with it. According to the content, housing was similar to work housing, since in this case the rental relationship was linked to the performance of household works, only that in this case it was a specific employer, i.e. the housing community in the apartment house. After the adoption of the 1991 Housing Act, when these apartments became co-owners of the new floor owners. Therefore, this legal relationship also substantiates the above-mentioned legal position. In the case of residential dwellings, there are about 250 units, which means that the adoption of the proposed novel would lead to a constitutionally contentious situation, both in relation to the attitude of all the other 10,500 tenants of the apartment, as well as in relation to the top-level owners, who would be subject to a constitutionally controversial obligation to respect the pre-emptive right at non-market prices. New rights would give rise to infringements of other rights or entitlements. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we believe that it is necessary to conclude the legislative procedure concerning this law. For these reasons, I support the decision of my mother's working body. I would also point out that, as long as the future amendment of the housing law, which we have heard today, is in preparation, it is possible to find solutions that will adequately address all these issues, or that change will equally address the relations of all participants or beneficiaries in the resolution of these problems, and that change will not interfere with the benefits obtained, then we will support such changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u101	Thank you very much. However, Comrade Janko Weber will present or present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The Group of the Social Democrats will not support the conclusion of the parent working body that the proposal for a law is inappropriate for further consideration. The proposal for a amendment to the Housing Law, put into the legislative procedure by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed colleague, Mirano Ptrce, seeks to settle the precarious situation of some 250 to 300 tenants and their families living in residential dwellings today. We note that the 1991 housing law, and also later in 2003, overlooked the proper regulation of the situation of tenants in residential dwellings. They summed up the formal distinction introduced for the first time by the Housing Relations Act in 1982, between the category of tenants in residential dwellings who were holders of housing rights and those who had the right to the provisional use of the apartment, namely the period of the performance of the household and similar works. The latter categories have virtually been granted the status of holders of service apartments, and their legal protection has deteriorated significantly since 1991 in particular. Their leases are no longer secure. They are also not entitled to pay a non-profit rent, nor have they had the opportunity to buy a socially beneficial apartment. All of this was also identified by an expert study on the initiative of the Initiative Committee of Housewives [[This was prepared by the Institute for Real Estate Law in Maribor]] which showed two significant findings in this regard. Firstly, there was no real substantive argument for such a status distinction between tenants in household apartments. And secondly, that the actual situation of the tenants was much closer to the housing rights holders in social housing than to the renters in service apartments. On all of this, colleague Potrč also pointed out the Minister for Environment and Space as early as July 2005. Since nothing concrete has been done after two years of promise and waiting for this issue to be resolved, the Social Democrats, in agreement with the Initiative Committee of Housewives, have decided to submit a draft law to the legislative procedure. In particular, this law would allow for the purchase of an apartment in which they reside if the landowners decided to sell, or the purchase of the burden of free housing to be provided by the State, provided that the landowners demanded the emptying of the apartment or the compensation for the value of the house, provided that the tenants provided themselves with a second owner’s apartment or apartment. And for the fourth time, as a variant, rent a suitable non-profit apartment if the purchases of apartments cannot afford or do not want to. We do not claim that our proposal for a law is ideal. I'm sure there's been some kind of improvement. However, we cannot agree to the Government's substantive argument, which opposes the proposal of the law for formal reasons in particular, while there has not been much going on in the content of the problem of house renters. And if I quote the words of Minister Virant, who said, "It's easier to make decisions in spelling than it is in common sense, legally and life. Bureaucrat puts the form ahead of content. That's why it's narrow-minded, rather part of the problem than part of the solution." I think those words really say a lot. It is also right that the National Assembly does not act in harmony with these words and that it does not support the conclusion of the parent’s working body. We are continuing the consideration of the novel housing law, which would solve a very big problem for some 250 to 300 tenants in residential apartments. We therefore expect, of course, that the other parliamentary groups will act differently and not so bureaucratic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I would like to invite my colleague, Mr Jerič, to present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Representative of the Government, Honourable Member, Honourable Members! Slovenian policy should address today the question of how to create conditions in our country where housing, both marketable and non-profit, will be more accessible. So with a burning problem that concerns mainly or only younger generations. Instead, we are trying to solve the problem today, as a result of the 1991 housing law, which granted the social property in the residential area. This housing law, one of the most important laws of our transition, is a relatively small group of housewives who have moved into housing before 1991 and a much larger group of modern-day tenants of denationalized apartments, compared with other beneficiaries, have been deprived. Since 1991, this deprivivisation of former housing rights holders in denationalised apartments has been attempted repeatedly or at least to be reduced. To the extent that Slovenian policies have succeeded in making decisions by the Constitutional Court, they can best tell the tenants of denationalised apartments themselves. However, something small has been done in large opposition to most of the parties to the current ruling coalition and the decisions of the Constitutional Court. For example, with the possibility of alternative privatisation. We can’t even say that about a group of housewives or former janitors. It is true that the right of former tenants to the temporary use of the apartment is not based on a substantive basis exactly the same as housing rights, since both rights are very similar. This should also be the starting point of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, together with the existing solutions for tenants of denationalised dwellings, in order to improve the solution contained in the proposal. In such a way as to completely avoid any evidence of interference with the ownership rights of the owners of these apartments. Unfortunately, the government did not want to do this or was able to do so and opposed the bill. In opposition, she only admitted that there was a problem. How else do you explain her finding that the evidence of social distress among the tenants living in these dwellings and her commitment to propose a more stable rent this year and the right to subsidise rents for residential dwellings this year? In Slovenia's Liberal Democracy Club, we support such solutions in principle. However, we believe that the Government, by objecting to the proposals of the law, has afforded a good opportunity to participate in the creation of permanent, legally correct and, of course, as fair as possible and, above all, as quickly as possible, for renters and their owners. We must all be aware, together, that it is primarily older people who have no opportunity to buy housing on the market and people who have very little chance of success in the tendering for non-profit housing. It is also interesting that often the owners of these residential dwellings are natural persons who have become owners of their dwellings and thus co-owners of residential dwellings based on the 1991 housing law. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support and oppose the decision of the mother labour body because of the proposed law, so that it is not a suitable basis for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented to us by Member Drago Koren. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u106	A nice greeting to the representatives of the government, everyone in this hall. In the New Slovenia Group, we will not support or support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the housing law, so that it is not suitable for further consideration. This is what the Government, the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, as well as the Committee on the Environment and Space have pointed out. It is common to all that the problem of housing needs to be resolved as quickly as possible, but it is also necessary to find the most appropriate solution. The government also considers that there is no systemic basis for the equation of household, in fact office accommodations, apartments where housing rights have been acquired in the past. Therefore, there are no conditions for substitution privatisation under Article 163 of the Housing Law, since the basic condition for privatisation was a right to housing. The government is expected to draw up a proposal this year to regulate this issue. It will present to the National Assembly more extensive amendments to the law and then include a solution to today's so-called residential housing. In doing so, we would like to point out that in the Group of Members we understand the problems arising from these housings. However, we must not ignore formal facts and look only at substantive matters. It would be dangerous for a problem to be solved on the other hand. Everyone in Slovenia was not renters and did not own apartments under housing law. There were a lot of work apartments, and housing apartments are defined as work apartments. It was here that the tenants knew that they were only renting the apartment temporarily. So, for the duration of this function. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the conclusion that today's proposed changes and additions to the housing law are not suitable for further consideration. At the same time, we expect that the Government will submit changes as quickly as possible, which will try to resolve housing in an appropriate manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u107	Thank you very much. My colleague, Kristijan Janc, will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! At the time of the adoption of the Housing Act in 1991, which acquired the previous social property in the residential area, all the work units, i.e. the household, were exempted from privatisation. The law defines housing as co-owners of one or more housing units. It appears to the applicant that the landlords, who, irrespective of their reasons and without their guilt, are no longer obliged to discharge the house within one year without any right, are obliged to discharge the houseowners, unless otherwise agreed with the owners of the house. We understand the proposal's initiative as a well-intentioned move to resolve this problem. However, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we do not think that it is possible to compare housing, in fact employment, with housing, where housing rights have been acquired in the past, and that there is also no conditions for alternative privatisation under Article 173 of the Housing Act, since the basic condition for the privatisation of housing was real housing rights. As demonstrated by the Government's opinion, further amendments and additions to the provisions of the Housing Act, which will deal with housing before 1991, will be prepared for consideration in the National Assembly and will go towards ensuring market rent and the right to subsidise rents and to prevent perceived cases of social distress. In view of the fact that the Government has already drawn up a proposal for amendments to the housing law, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we believe that it is better to wait for a government proposal which, I believe, will also take into account the comments of this proposer. Therefore, we will not support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Housing Law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u109	Thank you very much. And colleague Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Dear President! In the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose the proposal for a law as proposed. However, we understand the proposal for a law as a criticism of the functioning of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of the regulation of housing law. Why? This issue is old, respected gentlemen, who at the moment represent the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - for several years. That's not a story that's been there since yesterday. The government has also promised solutions very quickly to the Housewives’ Association, as they are now called. One month after they called you. But there was no government reaction. We understand the bill itself and in the Slovenian National Party, as proposed by the Group of Social Democrats, as an incentive for the Government to do something about housing legislation. It's not just housing that's problematic. The problem is very broad. The tenants were the first or so many to be able to join a group and perform as such in the Slovenian space. It is sad that, as such, they went to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for help first, but did not offer them adequate assistance. The question is why. Given that there are approximately 750 such apartments in the Republic of Slovenia, if we assume that the average family in the Republic of Slovenia counts three members, I apologize, it is 750 family members that we cannot and cannot serve today because they have not been given special conditions. I say that this problem can be solved in another way, as proposed by the opposition colleagues. But the government just didn't have a hearing for these people. And this is, in our opinion, a fundamental reason, according to the Slovenian National Party, why this law is even in the process today. If the government had decided and prepared a systemic, broader law, it would have been much easier to discuss. Today we only touch one segment, this is the janitors, from before 1991. They too need to be assured if we remember, and probably all those who lived in the bloc’s settlements, how these people did their duty. It is necessary to ensure some social security and a roof over the head. However, in the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that such a single change does not achieve all the effects that this country is to pursue. We also need to follow the effects when it comes to non-profit rents. This also needs to be regulated in housing law. I know that this will be more nut for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, such as housing. In Slovenia, non-profit rents are so high that they provide certain political options with inadequate numbers of votes. But I don't understand why the government hasn't been able to reach them so far, and given the time we have, I also doubt that it will be in this mandate. So I think this is a fundamental issue that needs to be addressed. As I have already pointed out, we will not oppose the proposal of the law in the Slovenian National Party. The bill, as tabled, is an incentive for the Government to pursue a system law. I could have done that in this proposal. It is true, however, that, according to the Government's representative, I hope, in a short time, that at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly, given that we have heard that the law is already ready, that we wait and monitor housing legislation in the hope that it will be saved before the Presidency of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u111	Thank you very much. And colleague Ivan Yelen will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The proposer considers that the resolution of the ownership issues of former housing, both legislation and practice, is not adequately addressed. It therefore proposes a solution to enable housewives to purchase housing under the same conditions as are applicable to renters of denationalised dwellings. In the event that the tenants remain, they would pay a non-profit rent and have a preliminary right at the same time. The Housing Act does not provide for privatisation for two reasons. House apartment in a multi-housing house is part of shared premises and is co-owned by the owners of one or more houses. It is an apartment intended for the performance of an official duty. And housing rights were granted to the tenant in this regard. As housing became co-owners of several apartments, sales were not generally possible. Except in the case of the consent of all the owners of the apartments or where there has been a division of housing rights at the home. The claim that all housing as former social housing was owned and co-owned by co-owners of multi-housing houses is also controversial. This applies only to cases where, at the time of the entry into force of Article 8 of the Housing Law, ownership and the purpose of housing have been indisputable. In principle, the right of use was acquired at the home apartment, with the exception of housing rights, since housing is defined as work-related housing. Therefore, the apartment, which had the status of a house at the time of the entry into force of the Housing Act, could not have been subject to privatisation. Housewives who have been granted housing rights in the past have been granted rent for an indefinite period of time with a non-profit lease or the possibility of making use of the so-called conditional privatisation under Article 173 of the Housing Law. In the DeSUS Group, we see this initiative as well-intentioned. At the same time, we estimate that documentation and legislation on housing is very lacking. We are confident that this issue needs to be solved. However, not in the way proposed. That is why we will not support the proposed law. However, we look forward to the fulfilment of the government's promise, which in its opinion on this proposal ensures that it will make the necessary changes this year to resolve this problem and also submit the proposal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. The proposal for a decision will be decided today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, within a half-hour period following the end of the 21st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters. The law is being dealt with by an emergency procedure. We have an estimated three hours and 23 minutes of debate for this point. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u114	Your Honor! Mr. Minister intends to present [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u115	If Mr. Secretary intends to introduce himself, we'll wait for him. Is Mr. Secretary in the house?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u117	Dear Members and Members! Dear Vice President! The proposed amendment and supplementation of the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters has been fuelled by recent events that have had very major consequences. In addition to the property of individuals on local infrastructure and in agriculture. Of course, there are also great consequences on economic facilities and on companies. Therefore, we want to allow economic operators only to recover from the damage caused. Not only on buildings, it is said, on real estates, installations and the like, but through the proposed law we extend the scope of possible aid also to equipment, machinery, as well as to business damage related to the destruction of stocks, both semi-products and final products, raw materials and the loss of income from business damage. Because certain companies were unable to operate because of the cases they had brought about and suffered damage. Therefore, the objective is to help economic operators as quickly as possible and thus avoid any negative impact on the long-term operation of these economic operators. This is said to be a business problem for these companies to forgive. Because then the consequences for society could be even greater for the country. And why not help quickly in the beginning and avoid greater proportions later? Following the example of a special chapter in the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Accidents on Agriculture, here we add a new chapter concerning the economic sector. This Chapter defines the procedures and the criteria for remedying the consequences. Of course, first to identify damage on machines, equipment and then all procedures how to remedy these consequences. The compensation may be granted to the beneficiaries up to 50 % or to the beneficiaries whose products have been secured up to 60 % of the damage on the equipment, subject to the property solution. As already provided in the basic law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u118	Thank you very much. In the framework of the legislative procedure, the draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. I ask the chairman of the committee, Comrade Rudolph Petan, to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Your Honor! At its 15th emergency meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly on the Environment and Space discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, which was sent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly with a proposal to deal with it following an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the law being tabled should be dealt with on an urgent basis. Representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Economy and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly participated in the meeting of the Committee. In addition to the basic material, the Committee also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In the introductory explanation of the articles of the draft law, the representatives of the proposer stressed that the proposed amendments and additions set out the conditions and modalities for the use of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia also to remedy the consequences of the damage caused by natural disasters in the economy, machinery, equipment, supplies and damage caused by the loss of income. This is particularly important for the reason that, as soon as possible, business activity is smooth and thus retains existing jobs. This will also ensure equal treatment of economic operators for whom the Ministry of Economy is responsible, entities under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture. The main solutions to the bill were also presented. Following the examination of the draft law under consideration in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly gave an opinion, comments to a large number of articles. The Committee on Environment and Space also adopted amendments to Articles 3, 4, 8 and 9 as part of the second reading of the draft law in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. After a discussion on the individual articles of the bill and after the discussion and vote on the amendments, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, a further proposal is prepared for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Accidents, which is also an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u120	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u121	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister. Before us is a new amendment to the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, which lays down the conditions for the use of State budget funds in dealing with the consequences of natural disasters. The novelty shall govern the conditions and the manner in which they are allocated. We want to make sure that the funds can also be allocated for the damage caused by natural disasters to companies, independent entrepreneurs, individuals who carry out their own activities, institutions and cooperatives, and which is reflected in the destruction of stocks and the loss of income. Novela was created in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Defence. In a very short time, in response to the rapid and effective resolution of the consequences of the last natural disaster, when individual areas in Slovenia were hit by severe floods. However, the adoption of the novel provides an appropriate legal basis for dealing with the consequences of natural disasters in advance. In the SDS Group, we support the amendment of the law aimed at remedying the consequences of damage caused in the economy, on machinery, equipment and supplies and damage caused by the loss of income. The Novelo is pursuing the objective of establishing a smooth operation in the affected companies and thus maintaining existing jobs. The funds may be allocated to the undertaking to remedy the effects of damage on things and the loss of income due to an earthquake, snow beach, terrestrial beach, flooding, impact or adverse weather conditions. The same is true if natural disasters cause damage to residential buildings, cultural monuments and the economic facilities of the agricultural holding and the things for which the State authority or the municipality is responsible for the rehabilitation of the means to remedy the consequences of accidents under this law. Resources may also be allocated as a result of a mass outbreak of property harmful organisms or animal diseases. It is important to stress that the law can be applied to all accidents in 2007 and that funds from the State budget can be used to remedy the consequences of a natural disaster if the assessment of direct damage to matters is greater than 0.3 per cent of the planned revenue of the State budget. The provisions of the law ensure that the type of reimbursements from the state and municipal budgets and insurance do not exceed 90% of the value of the damage. At the same time, the law indirectly encourages economic operators to protect their assets and income losses in the event of natural disasters. The new law provides for a higher aid intensity for economic operators who have an insurance contract and thus act as a good host, contrary to economic operators who will not have that insurance. The new law also provides that the Government shall establish and appoint commissions to remedy the consequences of natural disasters on matters, the Commission to remedy the consequences of damage in agriculture, the Commission to remedy the consequences of damage in the economy and determine its composition and tasks. The Commission is obliged to draw up annual reports on its work by 30 June of the current year. We support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We also support the amendments tabled, as they enable the rapid resolution of problems after natural disasters in the economy as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u122	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. And once again, welcome on behalf of our Group of Members. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support amendments and additions to the law, which is mainly adopted to address the consequences of natural disasters in the economy. The blood law shares the elimination of the consequences of the damage somehow on the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Space and on the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. By such a law, we extend this competence to the Ministry of the Economy. In the division of powers between ministries, however, there are doubts as to whether it is appropriate for the Ministry of the Environment to deal with damage to business facilities, or whether it would be more appropriate for the entire area of economic damage to be addressed at the Ministry of Economy. Therefore, the total damage caused by machinery, equipment, stocks, income loss, including damage to business facilities, would be addressed within the Ministry of Economy. In fact, in businesses and in general in the economy, they fear that the two ministries will require a double administration, a double route and, of course, a waste of time and efficiency in addressing the consequences of natural disasters. This very effectiveness has also led us in the Group of Social Democrats to decide to make a one-day profit in order to remedy the consequences of the flood. We are pleased that this has also been followed by the College of the President of the National Assembly, which has decided to be joined by other parliamentary groups. In fact, the allocation of funds is one of the key issues. How effective it will be to remedy the consequences, as we have also pointed out in addressing both the 2008 budget rebalancing and the 2009 budget in the home work bodies, where we note that there are currently no planned means to remedy the consequences. The law itself also discusses how these funds are shared and how the distribution of funds is reported. In doing so, we particularly want the Government not to be overly tempted by the use of resources on its own decision-making and transfer of funds to each year. This allows it to do so under Article 13 of the transitional provisions. That is why we are also predicting an amendment whereby we want the Government to report to the National Assembly, which is also in line with the Public Finance Act, by the mid-term of the current year, that is, by 31.7. For the rest of the year, we agree, however, that the Government may submit a report, as set out in this law, even in the context of the consideration of the final accounts for the previous year. Indeed, we must be aware that, with such a solution as is now enshrined in the law, that the Government is not reporting to the National Assembly until the final accounts are submitted for the previous year, there is at least a 9-month delay in reporting on how the funds have been spent and how we should actually plan them for the next budget. We believe that by adopting such a supplement to the law we would have a more effective law, more transparent. Last but not least, I think that we could all be more constructive together if additional resources are to be provided to deal with the consequences of natural disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u124	Thank you. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u125	Dear President, distinguished Members and Members, distinguished Minister of Economy and other representatives of the Government! The proposed amendment to the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters is the second we accept this autumn. If the first result of the requirement to harmonise the allocation of State aid to remedy the consequences of agricultural damage to European Union legislation, the proposal under consideration is directly linked to the removal of the consequences of the last capture affecting Slovenia on 18 September of this year. At the beginning of the recovery of the consequences, it has been shown that the law in force does not regulate or allow for the granting of compensation for damage to the economy, namely machinery, equipment, supplies and loss of income. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, the solutions governing the granting of aid for damage due to natural disasters in the economy are supported. We were given the idea that to allocate funds to remedy the consequences of damage in the economy. The proposal does not define the lower harm limit of the legal person who had to suffer in order to obtain the status of the beneficiary. Indeed, in the economy this is more difficult to define than, for example, on buildings or dwellings. However, we believe that some of the limits below should be defined, since without it the question of fairness and equality or inequality in the granting of these aids will begin to be raised. In our view, there would also be a slightly greater difference between the amount of funds that can be allocated to the beneficiary who acted responsibly and was insured against a natural accident and the amount of funds that can be allocated to the beneficiary who did not have that insurance. We are convinced that a greater difference would encourage economic operators to engage in insurance against natural disasters. This would also reduce the pressure on budgetary resources. At the principle level, however, we would like to draw attention to the danger that the law in force will begin to adapt to any possible major disasters. For we join those who warn that special laws should be adopted for the greatest disasters of natural disasters. The fact is that the law in force is not intended in its essence to remedy the consequences of the greatest natural disasters that could affect our country. Similarly, the text of marriage is not adapted to its effects in the face of every major natural disaster. On the contrary, one of the main objectives in the adoption of this law was to create a stable system to address the consequences of annual natural disasters over the longer term, as the practice of continuum adoption of specific laws for each natural disaster has become opaque, irrational and uneconomic and legal-systematic. In its consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the parent committee, the Minister of Economy said that such allocation of funds to remedy the effects of damage in the economy would reduce the need for later state aid. That is true, but the country, the economy and, of course, we all have to act responsibly before there is any natural disaster at all. An undeniable fact is that the frequency of weather-related natural disasters will increase with climate change. Prevention is still much cheaper than any relief from the consequences of natural disasters. And this is for everyone involved: the population, the economy, the country, and not least for insurance companies. Surely we must, for example, reconsider our spatial planning first, as the Minister for Environment and Space's statement continues to put great pressure on the construction of flood areas. We add that these pressures also come from an economy for which this law regulates the system of granting aid. Certainly, there is still much work to be done in preparing us for the coming natural disasters and in reducing their consequences. The preparation and introduction of an effective response system, as we are doing today, is still the easiest part of this task. It will be harder to provide adequate budgetary resources for recovery, not only in the economic field, but also in other areas. We will support the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. But we will also support both the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u126	Thank you. Mr Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Once again, a nice good day in this hall. In the New Slovenia Group, we are deeply aware of the fact that natural and other disasters are caused by nature and man with his activities. Risks that natural and other phenomena in the environment are reflected as accidents are accompanied by development opportunities that are significantly affected by natural and other factors causing changes in the environment. Natural disasters can endanger or harm human life or health, damage the environment or damage property to a very large extent. In Slovenia, the prevention and mitigation of natural disasters is implemented as a single system of protection against natural and other disasters. The system is aimed at prevention, which is more effective and in the long term also cheaper than other forms of disaster protection. Since all causes of natural disasters cannot be remedied, activities to reduce the consequences of disasters and to remedy their consequences should also be treated in an equal manner. Today we are revamping the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. The need for this change proved to be true in the last major natural disaster, such as the September storm. Because there is a lack of regulation in the existing law that would provide a basis for granting aid also for damage to the economy. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the amendment of the law, by which we want to give the legal basis to remedy the consequences of the damage caused in the economy. This has occurred in companies, independent companies, institutions and cooperatives, and for damage to machinery and equipment, stocks and also damage to income losses that have not been the subject of such reimbursements so far. This is particularly important for the reason that, as soon as possible, the consequences of a natural disaster will be addressed and the smooth functioning of businesses can be restored as quickly as possible. This, in turn, prevents the emergence of new, even greater damage. Time has the greatest weight here. Every hour, every day, is very important here. Any longer loss of production may jeopardise the operation of the company and, consequently, the employment of employees in the company. In the New Slovenia Group, we will be happy to support the proposed changes as well as probably in other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u128	Thank you. Mr Kristijan Janc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! On 18 September 2007, or a good month after Slovenia was surprised by a catastrophic storm, it passed. We were all shocked. Especially since the storms involved fatalities. Those who have not been directly injured in this storm are probably not and we cannot imagine how much fear and suffering has caused many, how much damage to objects, agricultural and other areas, on cars. Of course, there's a lot of damage in the economy. Residents of affected areas will surely continue to feel the consequences of this natural disaster for a long time. The government is trying to help all the victims of this accident. Budgetary resources will also be allocated to address the consequences of this natural disaster. They're trying to reach out to the congregations. I must certainly point out here, my fellow mayor, who, in this storm, in the most affected municipality of Železniki, Mr Michael Prevec, has done a commendable job with his care, compassion and, of course, with his immediate engagement. Of course, we must not forget all others who have also helped, each in his or her field. There were a lot of them. We can be proud of this sacrifice of fire units and units of the Slovenian Army. We can be proud of the compassion of all those citizens and citizens who immediately jumped to help, both physically and with donations to help those affected by the storm. Slovenia has once again proved to all of us that this solidarity is still alive. As I have already mentioned, from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia we will allocate resources to remedy the consequences of the natural disaster. The existing Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters sets out the conditions and manner in which the budget of the Republic of Slovenia can be used to remedy the consequences of natural disasters and the conditions and manner in which they are allocated. However, there is a lack of regulation in the existing law that would provide a basis for granting aid also for damage to the economy. Currently, the basis is designed only for the recovery of damage caused by objects and devices. Therefore, it is not the basis for the recovery of damage by machinery, equipment, stock and damage to companies, independent companies, individuals, institutions and cooperatives. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree with the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. We've seen that the last storms have caused enormous damage to companies in the industry. Residents were also affected at home, and they had to put themselves and their own homes on their feet. However, there is certainly additional concern if in such a situation, when you are personally injured, you do not know what will happen to your job and when you will be able to return to work to make money for all the consequences of a natural disaster. It seems very important to us that, following such or other natural disasters, most of the damage that has occurred has been done to establish the smooth functioning of businesses and thus maintain existing jobs in the affected companies. The law provides for a higher aid intensity for such economic operators who have insurance and thus act as a good host, contrary to economic operators who will not have it. It seems to us that the law thus indirectly encourages economic operators to secure their assets and to lose revenue in the event of natural disasters. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will therefore be happy to support the proposed law, as I have already said. In doing so, we express the hope that everyone affected by the last storm will be able to get through this period as soon as possible and return to the old tracks of his life. We also believe that by means of this change of law, this will succeed as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u131	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Remember, sometimes, or years ago, when major natural disasters and traps occurred, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, usually adopted so-called intervention laws regulating rehabilitation and also forms of state aid in affected areas. We were all dissatisfied with this solution at the time. At least once a year, if not twice -- I don't remember a year going by without it -- we passed such laws. And we all wanted to have a system-wide law to remedy the consequences of natural disasters, which would once and for all regulate this systemically and allow the Government to regulate and assist in major natural disasters on the basis of this law. That's not how it happened. Those of us who were involved in the adoption of this law seemed to us, or we knew that this would happen. Today, instead of adopting intervention laws or laws that solve a particular problem, we are constantly changing the system law. And the result will be the same as before. In view of the fact that the system law is still after one, two, or hopes, at least three major natural traps will be such that it is imprecise and will lose its purpose. At the same time, in every major accident, the National Assembly will still have to - otherwise it will not - adopt the last provisions in order to solve specific problems. This year we are changing this law - I think - secondly and I hope that we will not have to change it for the third time this year. As for the law itself, of course most of these things have already been said. The fact is that this law provides assistance to remedy the consequences of damage on companies, entrepreneurs, individuals and so on and we do not have any specific comments in this regard. It is clear that this law also has implementing provisions for this. In fact, it is setting up a commission to remedy the consequences of the damage and the commission's tasks. However, I would like to point out a few critical words. In fact, it seems that the law, let's say, is very superficially written. A typical surface area is, of course, 44.b., where the threshold is set in the first paragraph, when the funds of the State budget can be used. This threshold is 0.3 per cent of the budget revenue. And everything's fine and fine up here. However, there is no threshold for businesses as to how much damage they must have to qualify for aid in this area. So simple as that. In an area declared an area of natural disaster where it is assisted, a qualified company may also apply for assistance where, for example, it has only to clean the yard. There is no criterion for a company alone. And that's gonna be bad, because things are gonna be pretty ambiguous. Even more superficiality or even smurf is that the Government has forgotten to amend paragraphs 47 and 48 of the law governing the acquisition of data, both for records and for other functions performed by the Ministry. In addition to the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Economy should also be referred to in Article 47, paragraph 1. And in Article 48, the extent of the damage should also be supplemented by the damage to which State aid is now being settled or for which State aid will be granted. Moreover, Article 65 should further regulate the control of these forms of aid. At the same time, if I have time, I think I have time for it, we have accepted the amendment to article 44, where we added the word "entities" to the word "individuals" and so, since this is no longer an amendment, I will quickly say. Article 44a reads: "The beneficiaries of the means to remedy the consequences of damage in the economy are: companies, entrepreneurs, individuals, institutions and cooperatives established in the Republic of Slovenia." That's not good. That wasn't the point. Entrepreneurs are individuals, not entrepreneurs, and individuals. I hope that the legal services will determine that this is an editorial. Otherwise, it's an extension of this to all individuals. I'm an individual, colleague Majda is an individual, anyone. And of course that's not good. We will support the law, but I say now that as soon as it enters into force, the Government will have to come with at least two amendments or amendments to Articles 48, 47 and 65. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u132	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u133	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Fellow Members, fellow Members, representatives of the government! When we discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, set out by the same Ministry, which today represents this law, you can read the magnetogram and I am proud to say that I was absolutely in favour. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, this time we will not be in favour. And we're not gonna talk about why not, because you're all telling the same story. Great, fine, that's the law, we're gonna help, we're gonna, we're gonna, we're gonna, but, but. Nobody dares to tell the truth. Articles 1 to 5 of the Act: the law defines the possibility of recovery due to damage to the economy, allowing economic operators to be harmed by machinery and equipment and the loss of income. You're all driving to work, from work. Do you have insurance for cars? You do, because you have to have it. A farmer, if he doesn't have a secured farm, what does he get? Nothing. Nothing if he doesn't. If there's a chain collision, who's hiding the damage? Every single individual, even though he caused it, I'll say in this case, Barovich, let's just say, God forbid he did. In this case, despite the fact that they have and must have economic operators and facilities, if you want me not to be taken for granted, insurance? No, no, no. We will now hang ourselves on the law that Mr Podobnik gave with all due respect in order to give the money to the one who has the damage. He really does. It's really bad. I'd like to secure my facilities. If you look at the magnetogram of this meeting about this law, the law enforcement service has made it clear and loud that we have that I will not think again of no one dragging me by the word, in fact two funds for the same purpose. Is that true or is that not true? We'll have two funds for the same purpose. Why is that? That's a great election point. Nice or ugly, ladies and gentlemen! And the worst part is, Article 9, which includes paragraphs 44a to 44g, since the law ensures that the sum of reimbursements from the state and municipal budgets and insurance does not exceed 90% of the value of the damage. The law indirectly encourages economic operators to protect their assets. But run away, well, now we've'made' that the law encourages economic operators to protect their facilities. And for that, he'll get 60% of the insurance and 40% of the country. If it doesn't, 50 and 50. That's great! With all the sales of insurance companies, with all the "hiking" with insurance companies! This law was hung on an honest marriage that took care of an ordinary man who had taken his house away, but he had no insurance because he had nothing to pay for it. He'll take his house - he didn't have it. We don't have Log under the Mangart today. Tell me we have it if you hope. We don't! Why not? Because we don't know who's gonna pay for it because people weren't insured. Now we will adopt a law for individual entities, so that we will automatically give them an opportunity to get money from the country from the budget. Run, come on! Fine, write Barovic along with all 90 colleagues! No one hopes to say this, ladies and gentlemen, why are you ashamed? Tell me the truth! Would you like some more? There's something else. Ask the people under Mangart why they don't have houses, how they're going through what's happening to them. Now we are going to adopt a special law to protect economic operators who, in one way or another, are just making profits that they may even have in a reinsurance company called Allian, which will come instead of Triglav, already in one way or another, and will get twice the money. No, in the Slovenian National Party, ladies and gentlemen, such a law, such a swift procedure, which has hung itself on the law of Mr Podobnik, which I respect that he has made the first law, I respect. [[The ad in the hall.]] Look, you'll have your chance to tell. But every business must be secured.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u134	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please, the debate isn't over yet, and you'll all be able to make it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u135	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister of Economy! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. We feel that the need for a novelty is urgent. Not only is the catastrophic consequences of the recent destruction of the euro, but it is necessary to continue to complement, in such a short time, the lack of regulation of State financial assistance for damage to the economy and thereby to enable the affected to act as quickly as possible. This is because the proposed amendments and the addition of the law are intended to ensure equal treatment of economic operators in the field of agriculture and the economy. The existing law lays down the basis for the allocation of budgetary resources to remedy the consequences of natural disasters in the event of damage to buildings and installations, and not for the recovery of damage to companies, businesses, institutions and cooperatives caused by the loss of income, destruction or damage to stocks and raw materials and machinery and equipment. The proposal for a law therefore includes such damage in State aid from now on. Of course, the law will have implications for the state budget. At the same time, it is also encouraged economic operators to protect their economic assets in the event of natural disasters, by increasing the state aid intensity for those entrepreneurs who, of course, act as good managers. We do not oppose and support proposed amendments and amendments to the law in the DeSUS Group. But we want to draw attention here and now to the core of the problem around the recent and past damage caused by natural disasters due to the adverse weather conditions. An effective system for the resolution and management of the consequences of natural disasters is certainly necessary and ready for solidarity, charity and state aid in the event of such events. Fortunately for us, it still turned out not only to be welcome but also to be effective. However, it is also appropriate to consider a more intensive approach to environmental and spatial regulation, which should be regulated in order to prevent or reduce the effects of increasing natural events that we cannot, otherwise, prevent. But they can be mitigated, the intensity of the consequences, and thus prevent catastrophic damage. From a systemic point of view of spatial regulation at national and local level, by the competent authorities. You take non-professional decisions or even that they are not taken or implemented at all. As a result, they contribute to the fact that adverse weather events may cause even greater damage than, otherwise, environmental and spatial or other relevant regulations should be properly adjusted. Unfortunately and to the detriment of all of us today, space is regulated - instead of taking into account the natural attributes and limitations of the environment itself, as our ancestors have done - it perceives and plans to a greater extent only at the abstract level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u136	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. You have received two amendments, one to Article 2, one to Article 4. One amendment to Article 11 shall also be reproduced. First, I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 2. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 2 and the amendment to this Article. Check-in is on. Mr. Janc? No, no, no. So there is no debate on Article 2. I'm closing it. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 4 and the amendment to Article 4. Mr. Weber, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. In my presentation of the opinion of the Group, I drew attention to the problem that may arise because the removal of the consequences of natural disasters in the field of the economy is dealt with in two areas. One part of this proposal, if adopted, will be addressed at the Ministry of the Environment and Space and refers to a business facility as such; the other part, which relates to damage in the economy and talks about equipment, machinery, loss of business income and so on, will be dealt with by the Ministry of Economy. Just the fact that an entrepreneur or an economic company will obviously have to contact and submit a damage report to two institutions shows that there will be a duplication of administration. As a result, there is also a much greater possibility of longer procedures, and not least, at times, errors due to the identification of a comprehensive assessment by an economic operator. We also discussed this a lot on the Committee and, last but not least, an amendment was adopted, which speaks of the Ministry of the Economy also treating damage to a business facility. This is also a solution that the Chamber also advocates. They see also because of this easier solution to the problem and not dividing into two pillars, as I said. Of course, it is also necessary to listen to the fact that some of the solutions in this law are already stated that a business entity is considered to be detrimental to matters. However, in our view and in my opinion, the problem will arise mainly because there will be duality in the conduct of the procedure itself. A more correct solution would be that this amendment should not be accepted and that the solution adopted on the home committee should remain and thus allow the economy to solve their problem within one source and not within two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u138	Thank you. Any further interest after the debate on Article 4 and the amendment to Article 4? Only Mr. Zagorac seems to have raised his hand. Here you go, Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, Madam President. It also seems that the broader form of law is much more appropriate than to remove anything from the law in view of the damage caused by natural disasters. But on Friday, the Committee on Finance considered the 2009 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. I myself have proposed three amendments on the prevention of the consequences of natural disasters either on economic facilities or on an entrepreneurial activity, either as an individual. But the coalition's gone. She was not prepared to support the amendments relating to the effects of the current, resulting in neurons, resulting from the reconstruction of the radar in Žikarcs. Today you stand here as gods over natural disasters. We'll pay back, I believe. Preventive smoking. Prevention is cheaper than curative, respected colleagues and coalition colleagues. Believe me, it's cheaper. But when it comes to prevention, you don't care. When it comes to curating, let's give it to individuals. And if I look once again at the amendment to Article 4, which you proposed to delete for the word "damaging" the comma and the text "made on business premises", I wonder: "Why, what are you disturbed by business facilities?" Unless I think harshly again, I say, there is no one in Slovenia who currently has most of the property due to you. You know who I don't think I'm gonna name. Only in this case should business facilities be excluded. I think it's stupid for anyone to be harmed, because of natural disasters, he needs to be compensated for this damage. Economic operators are supposed to have insurance. Business entities, to the extent that they are serious, should have insurance. Individuals, whether it is agricultural land, or whether it is individuals with the status of a farmer in that country, may not be able to "scrap" this insurance according to the policy of the existing government. And they should be compensated for the damage. While we are hesitant in this article about two words that are not even as important. But why are we trying in this country? We're trying to keep the back of the damage to natural disasters as low as possible. In natural disasters, none of us, however, may feel, shall I say, divinely or sublimely, shall be affected. Natural disasters happen, unfortunately, increasingly often. Sorry, at least once a year in this country. But we are the ones who are competent to help people. The more often they happen, the more I will not mention a global policy that affects the fact that this happens once a year, the more likely it may be to happen even twice a year, the more we must provide the means to repay the damage, whether it is an economic society or an entrepreneur or a farmer or an individual. But it is even better if we address a matter in this House called 'pre-protection against natural disasters'. But why do we go blind? As I told the Committee on Finance once before, you have rejected all amendments going this way to prevent the consequences of the damage, and today you will come with a law that will repay it. Why the duplicity of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? Why the duplicity of coalition parties? Give me, please, before we decide on this amendment, tell me why. When you were talking about how to make amends to someone who happened to him. The ones we're trying to prevent this damage from happening to him, and you're not supporting it. Let me explain what preventatives are more expensive, worse, more unpleasant than curative. Explain this to me, and I will be happy to support your amendment. Four members of the coalition have been signed under this amendment. I believe that at least one of the representatives who is signed here, I assume that these are the leaders, Mr Tanko, Mr Hrovat, Mr Preseknik, Mr Žnidaršič, nevertheless knows what he has signed. But explain to me again: Where is prevention more expensive than curative? Explain that to me. I'm still saying, it's better to stop than to treat. If you want after what you once understood better "better to prevent than cure". But don't tell me that today we have to exempt someone because they were given a natural accident because they're not competent - I'm talking about entrepreneurs or business facilities - and we can leave someone in this segment. If we're doing these things, let's make amends to everyone. That's right. Everyone lives on it. Let's make it worth everyone's while. Why are we making the differences again? I don't think it's appropriate. At the end of this city, I stress once again, we will consider the draft budget for 2009, and then I will see the government's position on the prevention of natural disasters. Then I will see the position of the great coalition towards these amendments. I've seen them on the board before, but she wasn't the most fond of them. I don't know why! But today you're full of mouths, how the damage has to be recovered. The damage must be prevented. It's the right policy. The damage must be prevented. This is the right policy - it must be prevented from harm, not treated. And until you explain it to me, I can't support this amendment either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. There have been quite a few suggestions here, so I will answer in my name or try to justify why this amendment is good and why we support it. With regard to natural disasters themselves, we always talk about force majeure, and nothing is predictable. If all people knew every thing in advance, no one would be poor, some kind of saying. So to insinuate here that any thing can be done preventively is very utopian. However, it is important to ensure that when the consequences arise, they are eliminated as soon as possible. And I'm sure that's what this law is about. With regard to the dilemma, why two committees or why one part of the damage management goes through the Ministry of the Economy and one part through the ILO and, above all, there is talk about business facilities, I will say on the case. It is necessary to know that a business facility takes a very long process before it is repaired in order to find a solution. Both in the event of an earthquake and in the event of a flood, when all impacts need to be investigated somehow. And this recovery or removal can be quite long, it needs a lot of research. In the case of this law, however, we are talking about trying to save jobs in that first moment. This means that we are trying to keep this company alive. And I will be even more specific, in the event of an earthquake at our end, when, in fact, damage occurred again on the second earthquake, some companies were in such a situation that, at the first earthquake, they did not even arrive at the possibility of securing certain damage on their facilities and a re-investment cycle that would require the company to be exhausted in terms of the rescue of some buildings that add no value. And in this case, if there is no assistance from the State or any other institution, it may appear that the company is going bankrupt. Then we reenter as a country, which I don't think is appropriate. I think it is necessary for such cases to allow the Ministry of Economic Affairs to approach and resolve an undertaking which, otherwise, would not have been affected by poor business or poor results so that it would have actually deteriorated in the business market. This is about preserving the market. It's long-term contracts and things like that. I think it is imperative that this supplement remain. As I said, however, a business building is essentially a demanding facility that may require a procedure in the event of major natural disasters before recovery and the removal of such damage. That's why I absolutely support this amendment. Once again, I stress that prevention is necessary in the event of natural disasters. Especially where there may be some action in this direction. However, for all natural disasters, it will never be possible to foresee and protect everything in advance, and that is why such a law is needed.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u142	Thank you. Since there is still an interest after the debate on Article 4 and the amendment to this Article, I open applications. Please sign up. Mr. Squeakle, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 4, Article 2, transitional articles, all of these articles of the amended proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, in fact, say that this is not a law on the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, but a law by which the Government solves the problems encountered in 2007 relating to catches in the Railways and elsewhere. Of course, I am in favour of the law itself, but I do not support the systemic non-systematicity introduced by this law. And instead of the government coming with a clear law, the estimated damage is such, we will solve it in this way, with this law unfortunately giving Bianca the view that in 2007, as long as the resources remain in the state budget, she will put it on some budget fund and then, after this budgetary fund, spend it in an unknown period, as it seems to the government. No more will be decided by the National Assembly. That is why it is at least - and I hope that you will support this - that we will hear for the first time in July 2008 what the government will do in the first half of 2008 and in the rest of this year with the substantive removal of the concerns that have occurred. I'm sorry that the government with systemic non-systematicity is solving the problem of the railroads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u144	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u145	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. I agree that if a man were a witch, he wouldn't be a poor man, I agree. I also agree with the final part of the implementation of the honourable colleague Krivec when he said that prevention was necessary. I agree with him in this part, too, but your actions show otherwise. According to your actions, prevention is not necessary in this country when it comes to natural disasters. I will not say yours, Comrade Krivec, because I know that you did not vote on the Committee on Finance, but your colleagues in the party voted differently and they do not think this prevention is relevant. I'm glad you got up and said you spoke for yourself, not on behalf of the party. For if we spoke on behalf of a party, then you might be amazed. And another fact that I'm very worried about, no matter where the damage is, whether it's an economic facility, a business facility, a simple farm, a private land, or not, in a regular block - is another thing that's worse and you didn't want to confirm it! How many schools do we have that one natural disaster might not have to be big, hurt, or jeopardize the school process? You've rejected these amendments, too, but that's not what we're talking about. We're talking about natural disasters. You have also rejected these amendments, my fellow Members and colleagues. I still say prevention costs less. Slovenia does not have such a budget that it could "scramble" huge damages, but it has such a budget that you can "scrap" prevention. When we spoke to the Minister of Agriculture once about the state subsidising the security nets in the event of a leak, although in the talks this story came across a positive response, but to this day, eight months ago, nothing happened. That's the problem. There's no stock. It's got to be an action. I will stress once again: neither me nor the Slovenian National Party is interested in where the damage occurred. It's not about the qualification of the objects, the damage was caused, it couldn't be predicted, it has to be recovered. This country must be able to recover, if it is not able to recover, from the Government's representative for this speaker and says so, we will do otherwise. But the truth will be less painful than the inability to pay back the damage that has happened to them. Let's be realistic, and if we're already promising damages, let's promise everyone. Do not delete individual objects or individuals under this law. Once again, Mr Krivec was the only one who was able to explain this amendment as much, I hope that his successors will be even more concrete and you will tell them what makes the Kurativa better than prevention. Then I'll believe you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u146	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u147	Thank you. I will now be very specific, Mr President. The amendment states that the whole law separates damage to things, damage to agriculture and damage to the economy, this is the explanation of the amendment proposal. The damage to business facilities is affected by the damage to things, but not by the damage to the economy, and the amendment is therefore necessary to maintain such arrangements. I will now read to you a proposal from my fellow Member that with the budgetary user 2.3.1.1. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, within the field of consumption, agriculture, the economy and fisheries for reducing agricultural damage, contributes with your consent, ladies and gentlemen, to the poor of €5,000. You said no. And don't do the emperors today, the benefactors, I don't know what to do with this law! If you reject the poor 5,000 euros dedicated to exactly what the amendment says - how can you be so double-faced! Man can't get out of his own skin! Why do you reject the same content you are writing today? Give me a good reason! And another amendment for the poor 10,000 euros! You turned them down on the running tape and today you're talking about how you're helping! Nobody wants this accident! Nobody! Not a living God! I helped myself as much as I could. In 1994, in Trbovje, in 1998 in Trbovje, as well as in order to help where I wish at the very least - I helped respected colleagues. I won't say where or how! Over here! Don't talk to me about this law! You're playing a double game for me! On Friday night, you rejected the amendment for the same assistance that you are including today through a special amendment! How could you be so double-crossed? You are not able to accept 10,000 euros for the same matter that you are now enacting. Tell and look into the face of the people, the viewers and the viewers, the people, the Slovenes and the Slovenes all in order! Don't be ashamed of all of you!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u148	Thank you. Mr. Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u149	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In fact, I am shocked by such developments by the National Party, which unfortunately I must listen to when this amendment is adopted and, last but not least, by this amendment. Because the fact is that in those moments in the Railways, when we have somehow experienced, I will say, a great deal of solidarity, a great deal of help - also on your part, respected colleagues and colleagues, and for that I thank you very much, but at some point together with the directors of large companies, we were aware that, in fact, these companies are somehow staying at this very moment due to the unacceptable legislation in this area without assistance. Of course, these companies were insured, but this damage to these companies was so great, for 15 million euros there was damage to these companies that, of course, this insurance sum was far too small to cover this damage. Together with the entrepreneurs, we walked to Ljubljana to Minister Podobnik and to the Minister of the Environment and Space, and to the Minister of the Economy, and to this day I am grateful to them from the heart, they adopted us, and not only did they immediately prepare this law with these amendments, which bring our entrepreneurs the hope that they will somehow bring work forward. 2,000 people are employed by these companies. Life in the Railways depends on these companies. We can't afford to lose our income in the railways. The loss of income would not ultimately mean job losses. And with this performance by the national party, these 2 000 employees in these companies have been severely affected, and also by all those entrepreneurs that we have been working together to bring about this amendment of this law, as well as those amendments that actually regulate these matters. I am sure that my colleagues in the National Party of the Amendment have not read at all, probably or never actually faced this issue. Unfortunately, I have had to face this problem in these difficult days, and here it is beautifully explained: "The damage to business facilities is affected by the damage to things, not in the damage to the economy." That is why this amendment is urgently needed for it to actually mark the economy as well. I was very happy and pleased at first, and I was sure that, when it comes to such a matter, we have a unified opinion, a unified opinion, not least all the parliamentary groups agree with such a amendment of the law, not least with the amendment. I believe that there may be another matter to be rectified here and there, but all that was said to prevent such a natural disaster - respected colleagues and colleagues, in the Railways, unfortunately, we were unable to prevent it. Unfortunately, we have not been able to prevent this shock flood, although we have done something in the last few years at the prevention in the Railways, concerning the management of watercourses, etc. However, such a mass of water that fell from the hills could not be prevented. Therefore, at this point there is no such debate as the National Party has somehow carried out, at this point what a colleague of Krivic has said is important, which has experience with natural disasters, that all instruments must be sought, after which we can recover as soon as possible the damage caused by objects, movables, real estates, etc. This is how I will support the amendment, I will support this law, and, lastly, I thank all those Members and Members who are in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u150	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u151	Mr President, respectable colleagues and colleagues! I'd like to say a few words to this amendment - I'll support it. I think it is clear that this amendment makes sense because damage to facilities, including business facilities, is being dealt with elsewhere, within this same law, to be understood. There are some problems that I will end up saying. I'd say that first of all, but I would really warn you about two things. I also tell my colleague Zagorec, who probably listens to me at some hidden corner of the National Assembly, I hope that speakers will come there too. I would say in particular this, of course it is clear that prevention is better than treatment, that the prevention of natural disasters is better and that the implementation of measures to reduce the effects of natural disasters is better than later costly to address consequences and so on. But as it is said, this is not possible everywhere. One of these things is earthquakes. The question is, if it's worth it to back off, to secure the earthquake and build all the buildings, I don't know, 200, 300, 400, 500 years ago. The costs of this would probably be disproportionately high - with possible effects, costs after an earthquake. It is right, however, that earthquake construction has continued to be considered a self-evident standard from time to time, and of course this has been happening in this country for some time. For floods, especially since it was now in September in the Railways, I would say that this is a type of natural disaster that cannot be prevented by previous measures concerning the construction of water and containment infrastructure. The amount of precipitation in the Contributing Area was so enormous that it is virtually impossible to prevent a flood. We could have prevented many things; if forests were more cleansed, there would probably be less shade and less damage and so on. There's a lot to do. If we built protection on the flood safety of this type of flood, our infrastructure would be so robust that we wouldn't even recognize it. And the question of what Slovenia would look like with a very expensive, robust infrastructure that would carry such a type of flood and grip. So we just have to be careful here, it's not a back-up commitment, for maybe something that wasn't done, but, as I understand it, it would be the quantities that have fallen in this contributory area in such a short time, it seems that this is just 200, 300 years of floodback, to which it is actually difficult to address these measures; it happens and we hope that it will happen from now on, less than 200, 300 years away, and no one can guarantee that it will not be another year. That's the way it is. I'd only say one more thing. That this amendment makes sense, I have already mentioned, but it points to another dilemma, to what I have also said on the committee. It would be better if we prepared a special law for such cases, in which we could comprehensively regulate all aspects that we know of, because the general law cannot provide them in advance. And there would be a joint commission here, made up of a district of environment, economy, transport, I don't know who else, the social community, who would then judge and assess and allocate these aids and so on, which would just sort of solve it. Now you will have an undertaking that will assess the environmental business facility and economic damage to the economy and so on, and this is not a good principle. But that's how the government decided. I think that if ever, then this type of accident is such a type of accident, where it is simply not possible to transfer everything to insurance companies and it is also necessary, even if it were significantly better organised, there is some common help. I hope that this will be less, because, as I said, I support the law; it is not optimal; I warn once again, if we want to implement it, a new change will have to come as soon as it is in force, because the economics engineer has forgotten to amend certain articles or even amend certain articles. I hope that this will not overturn the transfer of aid that this area is in need of, and I hope that it will receive it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u152	Thank you. Any further interest after the debate on Article 4 and the amendment to this Article? Please sign in. Mr. Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u153	Thank you very much, President, again. This amendment, I think, if we want to read it properly, understand well who it is intended for and why it is intended for, is completely correct and in place. I welcome this synergy between the two ministries, the economy and the environment and the space that have jointly prepared this amendment today, as well as those amendments that we are discussing here. However, there is no way that I can understand some of the debaters who have now left the hall, who in this way are discussing the issues of solidarity, about helping those who have experienced this disaster on 18 September. This is an unacceptable act in a way that we cannot accept in any way, especially in a house such as the National Assembly. Don't go to the village party unless I'm in the house of democracy! I have to say that the prevention talk - yes! Prevention is always welcome on every segment in the event of such accidents. But we all know that if this place had been built, it would not have saved this disaster that happened. That's what we believe. And now to talk about the Committee on Finance, what is going on there - this is not the subject of this debate today, this amendment to Article 4, and not even the topic that some colleagues have been talking about. I hope that this great support in the National Assembly in other parliamentary groups also gives maximum support to the continued solidarity of the whole of Slovenia in this great accident in the Railways and in other Slovenian municipalities, thus helping the vital part of the economy, which has also experienced an accident here, and there is no formal legal basis for the State to offer them any assistance. This I think is the right path and yet without an active economy there will also be no active rehabilitation in any Slovene municipality after the storm, especially in Railways. And if some gentlemen don't understand that, then I wonder what they even understand, how can you tell them? Maybe someone's gonna have to draw something sometime. I accept this amendment, and I believe that this great solidarity, which, if this government and these two ministers had not prepared it, would again be - why does the state not help the economy in these disasters? So it's never right for some. And finally, I hope that some of these colleagues have also felt like their mayoral function, that something will help these municipalities in this disaster, just as some others have done before, and have shown compassion for people, especially with companies that have experienced this disaster and will probably take a long time to come back to the old lifelines - just as those who thank God this time have not been affected by this disaster. However, some of us have experienced this in 2005, when we have experienced a similar disaster, so I can speak from my own practice, what it means for the environment, the economy, for the people living there, also for the policy that works in this place. And this support of the National Assembly makes me happy that it is positive, and I hope that even those who do not understand that by the end of the debate you will understand that this is a well-intentioned action for the municipalities affected by the storm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, again. I didn't mean to come in again, but there's one thing I'd like to do. Above all, talking about these amendments, which are now under procedure, is not a matter of resolving this law, for this law does not only solve things backwards, but also solves matters that will happen in the future and will then be a legal basis for quick and effective resolution of such problems. So all conditional on some unacceptable amendments that were on the table, I don't think it's right. In any event, natural disasters are solved under current legislation through the budget reserve. I think it's the right place. As far as this additional fund is concerned, which would be formed, I think that, for the operational resolution of natural disasters, in cases where it is necessary to intervene effectively, I think what instruments say and I must say that the Ministry of Finance has actually agreed on this in this direction. I also wanted to complement or comment on my colleague Paul Gantar, who says that it would be necessary to adopt law in every natural disaster. I think he knows well that this has not proved to be the most effective thing. Some basic instrument, such as this law, is needed at a given point in time for direct damage to actually be resolved quickly, as the adoption of the law is not within a few days, even when some entry data on the level of damage is not actually on the table about some long-term consequences. In this case, I think that both ministries and all of us need some kind of legal basis, with which we can quickly and immediately solve a complication that arises both from economic operators and from natural persons and others. I think that this legislation, this novelty in the right direction, is a quick solution to the consequences.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u156	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, this is again a key word of solidarity. And about events that can happen every 100 years, 500 years or 1000 years and when these events cannot be prevented with meaningful and proportionate costs that could prevent such a thing, we need to use the solidarity mechanism; and this is it. We now adopt the law or amend the law and introduce new elements of solidarity that have not been foreseen so far. I will support this amendment, because the economy, economic operators, business facilities are what is in the premises and what has been extremely affected by this five-hundred-year event, which has been repeated over so many years and so many years, and it is neither meaningful nor possible to protect itself in such cases, or it would be disproportionate in view of the likelihood that such an event may occur at some point which is impossible to predict in advance, and here at least with some reasonable chance of securing the matter. I think that this is precisely the attitude of those who are somehow trying to turn the matter in the direction of "let's give every 5,000 euros" for prevention, but not to eliminate the consequences in a way that will not cause any further indirect damage, is essentially misdirection, and in fact, it is the guilt of nature to allow it to do so. On the other hand, I think that the Ministry of the Environment and Space, as well as those who can cope with such natural disasters, should be more aware that there are many interventions in nature that only increase disasters in such cases. I'm going to give you one case that's drastic and can't be solved for a decade. The bleeding man is known as a ski resort of the metropolis and other skiers. Due to natural interventions and surface smoothing due to more favourable and easier skiing, there is no longer micro-containment of water at certain precipitations. There are events that have never been present in this area when nature was still intact and there were no such interventions. The last interventions took place at the time of the replacement of the cableway on the bloodsucker, and today the consequences are such that you have large incursions of land in the face of no major rainfall and all the remedial interventions that are taking place are the throwing of money away because the cause that is causing all of this is not being eliminated. Thus, it is necessary to pay attention and, above all, to act on this work, to prevent such interventions, and not then, with prevention, to spend money away in order to eliminate such solutions that are not effective. I certainly support this kind of solidarity for economic operators, because there is no difference between physical and business entities. Once again, I must be surprised at this misinterpretation of the arguments of colleagues who do not advocate this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u158	Thank you. Is there still interest after the debate? I see one more hand, I am opening a new application for a debate on Article 4 and the amendment to Article 4. Mr. Root, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u159	Say good-bye again! I didn't intend to come back to this amendment, but somehow I can't get past not answering. The amendment itself is perfectly clear. I think that Mr Gantar has already explained the most clearly and said that it is only a clear exchange of two matters that need to be separated so that there is no duplication. However, I must say that I am personally very bitter and hurt by the statements and by the populist performance of the National Party. I just can't accept it. Only those affected personally in this natural disaster must be affected, and their companies, the factories, also affected. Not only their own possessions, but also the company that is the source of their daily bread is affected. I simply cannot understand and will say that, on behalf of us who have been affected here today in the National Assembly, I sincerely apologize to all those workers who have been seriously affected today at the expense of the National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u160	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u161	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I think the abuse of this accident is really enough now. I wouldn't have answered. I didn't mean to. Marriage seems bad, but better than nothing; it is said to be a solution to this case. I think it's more than reckless to abuse it. Now I don't just mean Nationals, but just anyone who wants to buy points at the expense of this accident, but it doesn't matter whether you say it with a blazing voice or more out loud. It's both abuse. We were as solid as we were. Everyone knows how much he contributed to this and how much he should keep quiet about it. Already in the presidential election campaign, we had some abuse when one of the candidates was allowed to paint as a great charity, and then there was not even 100 euros out of this charity - that we are in the clear. The damage was caused to the people and to those who then helped unselfishly and without any special accounts or concerns. The law must cover not only economic operators, but must always cover all those affected, including those who do not find themselves in the first reaction, who cannot do all these administrative procedures of bureaucracy and then remain purely dry. Something like that will certainly remain in your congregation, Mr. Prevc. And then in a month, two, see if everyone's really getting the help they need -- not what they deserve that they need. This is also true of economic operators, of course. Those who can cover it themselves will have less profits. But it would be dangerous to see public funds spill over into their businesses, and then they'll show up, I don't know what kind of profits. As far as prevention is concerned, it is certainly far more important than the rehabilitation of all these matters. We certainly know that in Zasavje. We've got a mine closure. Just look, in the previous term, the opposition at the time demanded no special expertise from German experts, whether these closures on the surface are really so expensive. And then the Germans realized that the required mines were only half too small. Did you take that into account? You've taken care of the figo, nothing at all! So I don't believe in your honesty and I don't believe your beating on your chest and, of course, your colleague Barovich's existence, who has wasted some of your truths. No one has the right to abuse accidents, not victims, not financial ones, not morals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u162	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u163	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Aleš Gulic. Colleagues and colleagues! Look, point your finger at me, and show me, be demagogues, be ye! The municipality of Trbovlje was among the first to help with great joy. With financial help - I as the fire commander gave the order and went to help. Slovenian National Party - we all direct the first to direct funds directly to the municipality. That you'll understand. Don't demagogize me! First time! Second of all, I'll tell you again, look at the damn session records! Why are you in Parliament? If you don't know what you're talking about - magnetograms! And read what Law-Legal Service says. Damn it, come on! That's not Barovic's invention! It says so! It says so! It says: Adoption of the amendment to Article 13, which says: we have two funds. Where will this fund go? Where will the funds be? Nothing's clear. Let's read it, please, if you're talking to each other, at least read what you're saying. And don't point at the Slovenian National Party now. Oh. K., colleagues may be in, and I won't, because this is the hypocrisy itself, which is written in the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, and the demagogy on your part is not mine, what your colleague told you, but not because he's sullen, but because he knows what it looks like. Then I will begin now with the examination of Article 4 and the amendment, which speaks very precisely that the word "damaging" is deleted for the word "damaging" and the word "made at business facilities" which clearly means - it would be better for me to write, but not for business objects. That would be the truth that you should tell that people can't work! Not on the facilities that are secured! Why are you closing the mine? Why are you closing the hospital down? Why did you steal 6 million and a half euros from the hospitals? Now I'm gonna start. You stole them! Officially recognised in the budget adopted by this National Assembly for 2005 under items 6.5 million euro. Where are they? There will be a question of where they are, you stole them. Let's get started. Why don't you give people 20 million tons of coal a chance to work? Why are you locking him up? Why do you lock him up and drive 1,000 people on the road? Why? You don't care. Of course not, because today you want to be populist, because there are elections at the door because you have won peace in the first half of 2008, because we are President of the European Union, and then you have elections like this. Don't be rude, don't be ugly - look at the bills! And we'll help if we have to, too! Not in this way, colleagues and colleagues! And at least let this article change, as I said, to help the economy, not the objects. Every farmer, every poor man, every man must have a safe house. Why isn't Log under Mangart saved? No one answered me. Why not? Because they didn't have any secured houses, unfortunately. That's a lot of grief. Why didn't the marriage come? Why didn't the marriage come in 1994, when the flood was in the Rippers? In 1998, 1999. Fair enough to make a marriage, but let's make this marriage fair. Fair enough! Not that we have - where we have it in this law, if it is adopted, show me the item in the budget where it is financially defined. This is proof, this is proof of the dishonesty of this law! Let's write down 70 million, shall we? Is it written down? It's not! How's that? You haven't read it again! Aren't you in Parliament? Exactly what the Minister for the Economy said was damage, precisely what he estimated was damage - here, gentlemen, "that 30 companies suffered damage of €23 million". Yeah. And why isn't that written in the law? Because if the law is to be in force, the items must go into amending the budget. Here's your honesty. You'll write maybe 27 more votes and 47. Why isn't that written? Why have we not considered this assistance as an amendment when considering the 2009 budget? Where's your honesty? Why didn't you file this law when Minister Podobnik filed it? When we first supported him in the Slovenian National Party because he had accurate data. Why didn't you, gentlemen, there you are, answer me, write these values in the bill and in the budget we're going to deal with? Because you're going to be making up numbers, but even though one has already been declared by the minister. I know they could be worse. Thank God we find them so we can save them. Thank God, but prove it to us, write us a fair assessment, not for the sake of the afternoon! And then point to the Slovenian National Party: "How unfair you are!" We're being unfair? You're all being unfair! Show me the item in the 2009 budget or in the 2008 budget balance! It has to be because of the marriage. Where is he? She's not here. Don't lie! And you, who go to your mother's work and talk about the contents, at least read to yourself for God's sake, [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u164	Thank you. Mr Barovic, you know, this law or the amendments we are talking about were tabled on 26 October and, by the beginning of the consideration of this law at this meeting, amendments could be tabled and any comments you may have made on what should be written could, of course, be tabled in the form of amendments by the beginning of this hearing. Too bad you didn't do it. I can still see the hand. Is there anyone else? I see one hand, two I am opening a re-application to discuss this law or this article and the amendment to this article. [[...]] Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I think it's an emotional debate, but I think it's useful. And I think it's good. I would once again tell my introductory colleague Barovic that, with regard to the amendment to Article 4, he is wrong. That's a fact. The fact is that this damage is dealt with elsewhere in this same law. But there are many other things that my colleague Barovic is right about. My colleague Barovic has in fact this law at the expense of his systemic "sales a lot of fog," we hope it will not be fog. True, once there were laws - even for Trbovlje they were written, by the way, for floods where it was said: we adopt the law, the assessment of damage is such, the means available are such, the rules based on which they will be assessed and then granted assistance are such and such. There were a lot of misunderstandings and disagreements about this, no one was ever satisfied, but at least there was a lot of money, where he was going and how long. This system law, which you have decided to change the system law, of course, does not provide for that. And that's all in hand now, you might say, the government is going to do it anyway. The second point is that, as I have already mentioned: I believe that for the natural disasters of this type, which have a complex impact, where damage to objects, economies, infrastructure, even social threats and so on, for these types of disasters that are truly catastrophic in nature, we need, in my firm belief, again a special law which also defines certain measures in time and time. And in this respect, I give my colleague Barovic the right thing to do, as I have already mentioned before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u166	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Now, of course, such things as these natural disasters do not bring political points to any one, but to people much misery, distress, and trouble, and so does the congregation. I don't consider this law a disgrace or a bad marriage, far from it! Within the scope of the opportunities we have, he is trying to improve and solve something. Of course, any subsequent storms and any such story will test us again. At that time, we will examine whether these legal provisions are in order or can be improved and corrected. Even in this first paragraph of Article 4 and this correction, I see nothing so controversial as to be applied in practice. However, I would like to point out something else: for prevention in these natural disasters, we are devoting decisively little money to prevent. I may have said that five times, and I'll be ten more times if I have to until something changes. Look at the case I know on my skin. In the municipality of Tržič, only water protection facilities and on the water infrastructure managed by the State were found to have 3 million EUR 800 000 damage. This year, if happiness is good, we can make it through the help of the state on the water itself to provide €120,000. This moment was no longer possible, but in all the following budgets, 2008, 2009 and beyond, we need to put more money into the system so that all of these areas, water regulation, the regulation of storms, the improvement of beaches. If there's no more money, then we'll all keep fighting and in trouble together. Simply, the weather has changed, the precipitation is in smaller, shorter intervals more, the people in the space have behaved like we've done a lot of stupidity, put a whole bunch of watercourses in a pipe, a whole bunch of houses, economic buildings where we should never have stood. But now it's too late for change. The factories will stay there, the houses will stay there, let's look ahead and systematically install more money for the area of natural disasters and then there will be fewer problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u168	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u169	Thank you very much again. Colleague Barovich. Perhaps such a performance is a bit offensive for colleagues who sit here and listen to us all be dishonest, how we all think wrongly, how no one goes to work bodies, just some walk and so on. This is not correct, read a few MRIs of the working bodies as well as the presence of Members, and we will quickly find out where the real truth is. And that way, I don't think he's being corrected. In this way, I don't know if you're going to achieve your goals, how you're going to harm businesses in these municipalities that have been hit by this disaster. And this is not the right way to talk in the National Assembly at the time of the marriage that we are adopting today, which with these two amendments, which is only a little more specific about how and why. And not lastly speaking for everyone back is, in my opinion, really inappropriate. With regard to budget items, you know, the budget has, for the first time, a budget reserve, as you well know, and not least every ministry has a number of items that will be able to implement the law that the National Assembly will adopt for economic damage. In short, by what you are saying, you are deceiving, in the first place, those who will be offered this aid, given by the state they urgently need today, not tomorrow. But how will this country run through the Ministry, don't worry. When the law is passed, your work is done, then work will take place in the Government, the ministries, which will certainly do all these things and all the procedures in accordance with this law. However, if the matter is not transparent through further procedures, you will come back to the National Assembly after changes and amendments to the law and we will make those corrections. Last but not least, any such disaster requires special treatment, a special way, because you cannot write one law for all possible future disasters that will happen in Slovenia, that is not the case. And colleague Barovic as mayor certainly knows this well, but of course, politics is something else. He probably looks at the local level differently than he does in the National Assembly, where he advocates his party's position and probably here he also forged part of the policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u170	Thank you. Mr. Barovich has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u171	My respectable mayor's colleague, and let's just leave it alone, he's talking nonsense. I am in favour of writing it down in the 2009 budget to record that it is going concretely, as respected colleague Gantar said, with a specific law, namely not 30 million, 75 million to help the Irons. I'm up for it! Let's just sort it out. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Sir, that was a replica, not counting my time! [[...]] Replica, no offense! Don't give me such demagogies, my respectable mayor's colleague, because you know you will, God forbid, I hope no one [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u172	Thank you. Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. I am speaking again, and I must say that the debate is to some extent insulting to all of us who are sitting here, who know some things more than some colleagues who operate on certain names and facts that they do not actually know. Here I will first touch Log under Mangart, which I probably know most in this case from the beginning to the end, including the Puho case, which was so used for certain insinuations. The last thing that's happening here today is how some people still don't have a place to live and that the matter is not settled. I think that's below the level and I'd ask my colleagues to look at what they're reading. But if not, let them come to visit and see for themselves how things stand, or even call at this end, and find that the matter is not what it is, and that Log under Mangart is one of the most beautiful villages of the time that things have actually settled. This is where all the praise goes to the Ministry and everyone else. As for help and praise, how some help, I think there is virtually no mayor here or in Slovenia, there is no municipality that would not respond when necessary and would not offer its assistance. It's just that we all have this experience, and maybe someone didn't have it, and that's why they're acting so weird. However, I believe that all my fellow mayors know that everyone responds immediately and offers assistance, regardless of where a natural disaster takes place in Slovenia, and this is also a great advantage of this system or of this activity in Slovenia itself. As for the fund and talking about how some of us do not participate in the committees, I would agree with my colleague Jance that this is below the level and also reading some of the magnetograms about what is happening on the committees and not happening, I do not think that is correct. Because in this case, it is necessary to tell the whole story and the Fund was clearly stated by the Ministry why it should be established; in this case, it is the case that the current practice, which shows significant delays in the realization of the consequences of natural disasters due to the difficult operation of the Ministry of Finance, which we all know well, will pass through and establish this fund, which is also within the framework of all legal regulations. Such a fund would provide significantly greater flexibility and a faster solution to certain problems. That is why the lady who attended by the Ministry made it clear that this is possible in article 56 of the Public Finance Act and has also proposed to the Ministry of Finance the establishment of such a fund that can speed up the resolution of such problems. And also respected colleagues, including colleague Gantar, agreed with this idea, which comes from this magnetogram. I can quote: "The idea of the budget fund is not bad, but also because usually at the end of the budget they do not fall, but they can be extended." This was some justification that was why the fund was set up, and similar things. However, the funds used to deal with the consequences of natural disasters are largely in line with the budgetary reserves that the Government may also create during the budgetary period itself. It is not said that it is cemented at the beginning of the budget period and can also change in the event of an additional natural disaster. If the matter were to be cemented at the beginning of the budget period, this matter could be very questionable for later implementation, for in the course of recovery it can be shown that there is a substantial need for more of these funds. At that time, we would be dealing again in the budgetary debate on whether we should allocate certain resources to remedy such cases. I think that these advantages, which such a fund brings, are significantly more than the concerns that have been expressed in these discussions. Nor did the debate on the Committee indicate that both the opposition and the position would disagree that this is one of the possible solutions in this law, which helps all these consequences to be implemented more quickly and more operationally. Once again, because colleagues are also mayors, this is indeed true and certain things are at the Ministry of Finance because of previous legislation, and here I will be a concrete - an earthquake recovery - extremely rigid and in essence a huge backlog in the implementation of some minor changes, but this will sometimes take more than a year. From one budget period to another, some things are shifted entirely for formal rather than substantive reasons. That is why I say once again that I support these proposals and this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u174	Thank you. Do you have a replica? I'll open the debate anyway. Is there another hand? No, then, Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u175	If I just said the answer to what my colleague Krivic said, I would only say that I have not discussed anything about the special budget fund. It is exactly what I said on the board, that I think this is a useful institution, a good invention and that its purpose is precisely for these purposes. What I am saying, however, is that it would be good if in law and by law - in this case it should be special - to define the extent of the means to remedy natural disasters in this case. This is not done, however, so we are counting on the government to go all the way here, and it will not be in time when the interest in these matters has fallen, that the government's interest will not drop, that it will recover and help in these matters. Only so much for this aspect of this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u176	Thank you. I conclude the debate on Article 4 or the Ministry representative wishes to join this article. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Only if you allow me, honourable Members and Members, two words to many times the shortcomings of so-called prevention or prevention and curative. Here I would like to draw attention to the structure that is in the country, in fact in the legislative system that governs these two areas in a way - I will list only three laws that are in the field of prevention: the Spatial Planning Act, the Water Act, the Environmental Protection Act. These are three system laws that have built-in mechanisms to plan spatial development and use of natural resources with very clear guidance on how to prevent and avoid vulnerable areas with accelerated water dynamics and other dynamic processes. And the curative - which item is actually on the table today? We're talking about the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents, we're talking about the Kurativ Law if you want. And the mechanisms available for this, and what is the subject of the novel, are complemented by what the Minister for the Economy has explained, this time also by a dimension involving an economy or entrepreneurship. And of course, in the most affected areas affected by this dynamic of natural disasters, they need to be rehabilitated as quickly as possible and need some solidarity or social moment. In any event, the Minister also defined it as a business activity or profit-making activity which suffered damage due to - such as the case of Railways and other locations, people living there and also economic involvement in the division of labour or competitiveness on the global or European market. This is a reduction in the competitiveness that this economy then enjoys in the European market. It's about what the novel is bringing, and so far it hasn't been subject to regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u178	Thank you. This concludes Article 4 and brings us to the debate on Article 11 and the amendment of the Social Democrats to this Article. I'm opening the application. Mr. Weber, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u179	Thank you for your word. This amendment also gives the government great powers to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. In particular, on a proposal from the competent ministry, a programme shall be drawn up, this programme shall be adopted by the Government and the programme shall define both the deadlines and the means to remedy the consequences, and often also for a multi-annual period, all of which shall then be the basis for budget planning. Under this law, the Government shall report to the National Assembly only and only on the implementation of the resolution of the consequences when the final accounts of the budget are examined. I would like to point out that, for example, for 2007 the final account will be dealt with sometime in October, November 2008, and it will be at least 9, 10 months' delay or more in these proceedings. In the meantime, a lot of things have to be done, a lot of things need to be realized. It would be correct for the National Assembly to have information on how to remedy the consequences, but not for the post-festum only to be familiar with the final accounts of the budget. Therefore, in this amendment, we propose that the Government report to the National Assembly six months on the implementation of all the programmes and activities it has carried out and on the use of funds. So by 31.7., let's prepare a report on how far the recovery has been carried out. However, we agree with the final report for each year that the final report will then be dealt with in the framework of the final account. We would also like to avoid some unnecessary administration by individual ministries in order not to keep preparing a report and then run out of time to carry out these rehabilitations. However, I think it is correct, even because of the Government itself, to draw up a comprehensive half-year report and then, at the end of the budget, the whole report is being considered. So I think that this is really one important role that the National Assembly plays in this law. It's about control. Implementation is, to a large extent, right and only in the ministries, and control over it should be just as effective as it is currently enshrined in the law. And let me add to this the fact that this law allows the Government to transfer the available funds from the state budget reserve to the budget fund by decision on the date of the entry into force of this law, so the National Assembly will not even know how much funding will be transferred by the Government's decision to this fund. We will only be able to get information about this after the closing account if it remains in this marriage solution. And it is also in fact very clear in this law that the use of funds is decided by the Government and also imposes very direct powers on it, how much resources it will devote in a given year and how much it will not devote. Even in order to avoid the fact that the Government may happen to identify some other priorities in the course of a year, it may be possible to stop drawing on funds in order to remedy the consequences, which is bad. And that's only for the National Assembly to know if they report to us for at least six months. So I hope that this amendment will truly be adopted as an amendment that contributes to the transparency of budget spending, which contributes to the fact that the National Assembly also has information on how the consequences are being addressed, and that we will also have timely information when the budget is adopted, whether the Government respects this programme or does not respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u180	Thank you. Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. In view of the fact that the amendment was put on a table and we looked at it in some way quickly, we do not really see the problem of being adopted in this procedure, in fact it does not affect this law in some essential way, but gives the report twice a year, and I think it is also acceptable on our part, so this article and this amendment are supported. However, I would like to point out something else when there was a speech earlier by a colleague on specific laws. I would like to point out that this law does not exclude any specific law in the event of an extraordinary natural disaster that may occur in the future. So once again, I would like to stress that this law saves exactly what is happening now, that this dead time in that immediate situation is actually resolved, that there is no empty action, that makes it possible. However, there is no denying the possibility that in the event of an accident, when a condition is in place, a special law, as in the case of Trbovelas, Posačja, reptiles and so on, will be rewritten. So this law doesn't rule it out. So much for an explanation. As I said, this amendment is not controversial and we support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u182	Thank you. Is there any further interest after the discussion on Article 11 and the amendment to this Article? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on this article and all other matters in this law. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, that is, at 17.25. I'm adjourning the assembly meeting, which we'll continue at 5.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please take your seats. We're moving on to the session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda - the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on European Councils of Workers. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 12th item of the agenda - third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would not have led to a lack of harmonisation of the law's proposal. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present for 61, against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda - the consideration of the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Political Parties Act. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendments to the amended draft law was not tabled, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 63, against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda - first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the protection of cultural heritage is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Check-in is on. Mrs. Shirca, please, you have the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u184	The Zares Group requested a first reading of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and, at a certain point, we even felt that it would not be pointless to push the law forward, especially in the light of the commitment of the Government to take into account changes in the second reading also in the way of today's expression of individual parliamentary groups and Members. However, we will not support appropriateness, but we will abstain, demand - and I suppose we will also get help - from a public presentation of opinions, because there are a lot of questions in this area that are open. This has also been confirmed by other parliamentary groups. There is an open question of mandated museums, which will need to be registered in relation to national, state museums after a new one. The question of co-financing of the Church, explicitly introduced by this law, is open. The issue of archaeological heritage is open, including the fact that they become cemeteries of postwar massacres under this law an archaeological cultural heritage. The question of the new duties assumed by the State at the expense of the protection of cultural heritage is open. Nor did what we had expected to happen in some way, on the basis of the example of Croatia and some other countries, impose so-called taxes or tomatoes for the maintenance of cultural heritage, given that we do not have in the law to invest in cultural heritage the reliefs you promised before you came into power. But the Ministry of Finance sent a slap to the Ministry of Culture for the third time when it withdrew it from the bill. In short, in view of the willingness that the Secretary of State today, in the absence of a significant minister, has, however, transmitted to the National Assembly for dialogue to take place, we also call for the attention of the professional public, which may not have been given an expression in this law, at least our discussions with them give us this message, we will throw ourselves into the drafting of the amendments after a public presentation of our opinions, but for now we will be abstaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u185	Thank you. Is there any interest in an explanation in his own name? [[No, no, ……]] We are voting on the proposal for a decision. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 5. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The draft law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the housing law. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the housing law is not suitable for further consideration. Is there another hand? No, just Mr. Potch on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. The MP will vote against the proposal of the mother labour body because he supports the amendment and the amendment of the law. We suggest to everyone you have told so far that you are opposed to the bill's proposal for reconsideration. What's this all about? For an excuse not to break the law, there are only and exclusively formal or, I would say, formalist excuses from the ministry. To talk about the fact that, because the law in the previous system referred to housing rights in two different laws once, once to the provisional right of use and given the same substantive rights, there is no valid reason. It can only be a valuable definition that we do not want to help solve this problem, just as we are not many in housing rights holders in denationalised apartments. This is possible, but he certainly has no formal apology for it. Even when the Government claims that it is a wrong substantive definition, because it is impossible to guarantee some right because they did not have housing rights, you know well when it comes to transitional laws, it is possible for the National Assembly to define the content in a broad sense, as it is appropriate for them. Well, you're not in love. But what they look like in practical cases, I will tell you about the case of the ladies and gentlemen who were with me a few days ago. He was a janitor, she was his wife. After 1991, they were asked to empty the apartment because it was also used by a firefighter, and the heat station took over. They begged not to let that happen to them, but they said, no, we're going to demand a high rent. Next they prayed, then they agreed on a possible ransom. They had to buy at a market price, they concluded a few ten contracts, and they struggled for years and years to reach these contracts. They're all certified by the notary, they're all introduced to the congregation, taxes are paid. When they wanted to book their property in the land book, they said, "Sorry, you can't because the people you bought from don't own it." In the original contracts purchased from the construction company, they were not known to be co-owners of the apartment. And now, you say, what? The court says they can't make decisions without a basis, but they were told at the Ministry, "Go to the construction company and have it confirmed to you that the owners at the time did buy a house apartment 25 years ago." That's the reality of our behavior.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u187	Thank you. What interest in self-explanation? I'm opening an application for reasons on my own behalf. Mr. Weber, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. In any case, if we are to resolve the situation of housewives or tenants in these apartments, it is necessary to amend the law. Without a change of law, this problem cannot be solved. A deficiency or anomaly has been identified in the sense that someone is granted the status of the tenant, and to others only as the user of this apartment. Of course, for those who could exercise their right as a tenant, in 1991 and even in 2003, this was very beneficially resolved by this legislation when we were able to buy apartments. Well, they're left somehow exempt from all of this, so I think it's right that we're trying to solve this part of the population, this part of the tenants in a way that we can change the law and actually enable them to actually do what the vast majority in this country actually did in this process of transition owned and sold social property. I think they also contributed to this social property, perhaps even more, because they also specifically cared for the property of schools and similar public institutions. I see no reason why there would not be so much will and opportunity to change and harmonise our legislation so that residents in residential housing could also be allowed at least the same approach to solving this problem as for all the others who received it in 1991. Thank you. I will therefore support this law or vote against the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u189	Thank you. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 687 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 23. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 21st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 2 proposed by the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. I'm opening the application. There is no desire to explain, so we vote. There are 68 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 3. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 4, proposed by the same SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 7. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 11. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 37. (For the vote was 25.)(against 37.) I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 2 and 4 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article. [[No, no, ……]] I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. On the basis of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would not have led to any non-compliance with the law. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u190	Thank you, Mr. President. In the Slovenian National Party, until we see the budget item in the 2008 budget rebalancing amendment, or, of course, impossible because of the last 2009 budget meeting, we cannot support such a law. To talk about help without value. Look, Mr. President, they don't even know what this is about. They say, to speak of no value in helping someone with a marriage. And if I say, "Okay, let's help a certain area with some law, with a certain amount," it's blah, blah, blah. If I say, "if this is a general law, let's figure out the amount and let's say," it's blah, blah, blah. This is a completely, highly respected Mr President, an unresolved attitude of this National Assembly towards, God forbid, things that are and will be, but I hope that they do not happen too often. That's not nice. We should all know that. You don't care what you're talking about, you're talking to each other, and we're talking about things that are cruel to people. Oh, that's cruel! Oh, that's cruel! And now we're going to make a decision about a law that determines something we don't know anything about. Okay! We'll write 70 million, we'll have no problem if it's written down, or 100. Where's that money gonna go? Where will he go, ladies and gentlemen?Oh, my God! I don't think he'll go among those poor people, among those who are hurt. I don't believe this is politics. Tell me why. Firstly, there is no Minister for the Economy, secondly, why the Minister for the Economy is involved under the auspices of a respected, only gentleman from the Ministry of Environment and Space, who has remained and I respect him. They're the ones who made this bill, the Minister of Economy came, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] He explained that he had "pulled his bag" and walked away. [[...]] Is this the attitude of the Minister of the Economy towards the law with which he wants to help people who have spat on the Slovenian National Party?Oh, my God! Where is he? He's not here. Dear Mr Secretary of State, with all due respect - thank God that you are at least here and you may answer this question: What connection does the Ministry of Economy have to place the law under your protection if it is not here? With what connection, why he wasn't there [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] On September 23rd, when we discussed the first law? [[...]] Tell me! Where and when these amounts will be included in the amendments or budgets, the 2008 budget rebalancing or the amendments [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr Barovic, this is a stage of explanation of vote and not of controversy, so the Secretary of State will not answer you. But I would ask you to choose your words a little bit, like, "You don't care, they don't even know what it is." Mr. Barovich, I don't know, maybe you're the smartest person in this room, and maybe it's just you. [[...]] [[a voice from the hall]] For all these things, only those words are not in place. [[...]] Please don't go on with your insults. [[...]] [[The voice from the hall.]] [[...]] I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Weber, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u192	Thank you. I will support the law, although I would really like to point out once again that the Government also has very great powers in this law. At the proposal of the Ministry, it will adopt a programme to remedy the consequences and also adopt a decision on the transfer of funds which will remain in the budget to remedy the consequences and also part of the budget reserve to the specific fund this year. Our amendment, which we proposed to Article 11, said that we expect it to be by 31.7. The Government reported to the National Assembly on the use of these funds. The amendment was not adopted because this solution should already be clearly stated in the Public Finance Act. I hope that this will be so that the individual ministry will be aware of these obligations of the Public Finance Act, that the government will be really by mid-summer or by 31.7. It submitted a report to the National Assembly on the use of funds, which we do not really know at this moment how much is planned or how much will then be used to remedy the damage caused by the storm. Expecting that the Government will actually respect the Public Finance Act, so that this report will come to the National Assembly at mid-summer, I will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. Dear President! Far from being the smartest, but I must tell you that neither are you, who are the first of all, but also colleagues from the coalition, say colleague Pojbič, is not the smartest, even though he laughs at every explanation of the voice, but today he does not know why. But let's just leave it. The failure to support the law, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is not popular, it is not political, it is not wise at the moment, but unfortunately it is realistic. In the Slovenian National Party, far from wanting to be popular, political, blue, the smartest. We're being realistic, I'm afraid. Natural disasters have happened before. In this you will agree with me and you will not deny me. But, sir, I'm going to call it France, from the Great Pole, or from the Sweet Peak, or the Shantilje or the Posnica, today he didn't get anything from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Why? Because the government divided the funds by their heads, according to the principle, "He who is not ours will wait." And the one who waited didn't get anything, even though he deserved the most. And in this case, respected colleagues and colleagues, I cannot support this law. The one who deserves the most so far has got nothing. On this basis, we do not support the law in the Slovenian National Party. Let's start once with "the lower ones" and then go to "the upper ones", not the upper ones, but go to "the lower ones", and then we run out of resources. The little farmer deserves it first and the big one deserves it last. Why? Because the big one is insured and the kid doesn't have the resources to be insured because this government won't let him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will also support this law because of all the arguments I have already made in the debate. But I think it is, once again, that the debate of some is below the level of this National Assembly. They're entanglement with facts that don't stand. I think or believe that this law brings improvements in the area of disaster management. In particular, it improves the response rate of individual ministries, and this latest novelty in the field of economic operators can, at a given time, address quickly and effectively the most urgent consequences that arise in such situations. The rest of the debate, which was, which should also allow for the further introduction of a law in the event of a major accident, does not limit this law, so that whenever there is a need for an additional law to remedy a particular major natural disaster, it can be enforced. In fact, the law allows all ministries to react immediately and to remedy the damage at a given time when a natural disaster occurs. Any further consequences that need to be remedied can also be remedied by another law. However, experience has shown that in this current Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters there are some shortcomings that we are actually addressing with this novel. That is why we also support this law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u197	Thank you. Is there any interest in the explanation of the voice? [[No, no, ……]] There are 66 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. Period of the day - This is on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Italian Republic on the cross-border police cooperation. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 28. On the basis of a proposal by the Member States, the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Montenegro, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Iceland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Nations on the establishment of a common European airspace. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 21st A-point of the agenda - this is to defend the proposal of the law on amendments and amendments to the law on private protection, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative of the Government want a further explanation of the bill? Mr. Mag. Zinrajh, Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Good evening! Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In view of the shortcomings we have seen in the area of private protection, the Government has proposed amendments to the law in particular to the possibility of effective action at the very place where the personal protection law is being breached. Above all, we have proposed the following. The issue of licences for undertakings in any process shall be suspended until the decision is binding. Furthermore, to prevent the acquisition of a licence to an undertaking which has been legally recognised as responsible for certain offences for a period of 4 years. The conditions for temporary withdrawal of the licence shall be laid down in more detail and, in particular, the possibility of temporary withdrawal of the licence shall be given to the Ministry of Interior where the complaint does not delay enforcement. The place where such protection is carried out may also be sealed and the application of such a decision may not be suspended. A new offence shall be imposed for an undertaking which does not conclude an appropriate contract with an undertaking which has an appropriate security licence or is contrary to the rules defining the scope of public collection. There is also a change in the area of the granting of business cards where the conditions for obtaining the security certificates are tightened. Furthermore, the conditions for the withdrawal of a business card are laid down, which will be linked to an individual and not to an undertaking. The licence for the planning and implementation of safety systems shall be divided into two licences, namely the planning of safety systems and the implementation of technical protection systems. The law also provides for voluntary association in the Chamber and lays down the conditions for representativeness of the Chamber. For the field of training, where certain shortcomings have been observed, we have identified the conditions under which public education in this area can be obtained and have identified that the Chamber can conduct training if, of course, it meets the conditions laid down. However, the State or the internal ministry shall guarantee that such education will be carried out within the framework of the MNZ if no one fulfils these conditions. Thank you very much for your attention. Please accept the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u199	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. Does the Vice-President of the Committee want a word, Mr Hwauc? [[Yeah.]] If you'd like to present the report to the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u200	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. At its 44th urgent meeting on 23.10.2007 and its 1st and 2nd below on 25.10.2007, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on private protection submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following an urgent procedure. In addition to the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the Legal and Legislative Service, representatives of the Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia for Private Protection were invited to the meeting. The representative of the proposer, the Minister of the Interior, also made a supplementary explanation and from this I should like to present some of the most important changes he brings. The amendments specify more precisely the conditions for obtaining licences for the exercise of this activity, specify the conditions for temporary or permanent withdrawal of the licence, introduce the possibility of effective inspection, introduce responsibilities for the contracting authority of the security service, extend the competence of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to determine the fulfilment of the conditions for carrying out the activities after the licence or service card already obtained and allow voluntary membership in the Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia for private protection and otherwise regulate private security training. The Minister also stressed that intensive coordination and discussions were held with the representatives of the Private Protection Chamber, and in these coordinations they also found certain solutions to Articles 17, 25, 26 and 42, under which appropriate amendments were then prepared. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that their written comments were largely taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. In the course of the debate, it expressed certain concerns about the amendment to Article 40, in conjunction with the new provision or provision of Article 77b, and further some concerns about Article 42, paragraph 3. The meeting of the Committee, as I mentioned in the introduction, was also attended by a representative of the Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia for Private Protection, which stated that they agree with the additions to Articles 17 and 25, 26 and 42. However, he felt that further consideration would be needed on the issue of the preparation of proposals, catalogues, standards, expertise and skills, in this regard also the standards of descriptive knowledge and skills of professional profiles and so on. The draft law was also given a written opinion by the Commission of the State Council for the Political System of 25.10. where the following conclusions were drawn up: the Commission does not support the proposal for a law in the work relating to the Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia for Private Protection, but supports the proposal for a law on work which would enable the competent authorities to act effectively against offenders in the field of private protection, at the same time the Commission calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of the Interior to withdraw the systemic part from this proposal and to draw up a new proposal for a law in this part, but also recommends or considers that, given that there are major violations in the protection of guest facilities or nightclubs, the proposer should consider any more precise regulation of this work of protection. In the debate that followed, the most important speeches were about the competence of the Private Protection Chamber or training, including the criteria for determining representativeness and around the amendments themselves. The Committee adopted the following amendments: amendments by SDS, NSI and SLS to Articles 8, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 25, 26, 27, 29, 36, 40, 41 and 42, and amendments by the Social Democrats Group to Article 27. The Committee rejected all the other amendments, adopted two more of its own, namely Article 3 and the amendment to the amendment of the Committee to Article 42. An integral part of this report is a complementary draft law prepared by the Committee by including the amendments adopted for the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u201	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ambassador Miran Potrč will give his position to the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice President! We will not oppose the amendment of the Law on Private Protection in the Group of Social Democrats. We do not want the Government to be able, even if it is false and false, to point at the National Assembly, the Council of State, those Members and Members who have voted in favour or against the law and thus have found or sought excuses for their inequity and failure to accept the obligations and measures that could be carried out under the law. If the Government is convinced that the amendments and additions to this law will allow it to take full responsibility for protecting people and property, even when it comes to fulfilling the tasks of the protection companies, even when it comes to protecting the most endangered discotheques and nightclubs, then we do not want to object and oppose this. However, we would like to point out that it is right for the Government to be aware of this responsibility, which this law will ensure, and that it may not be necessary at all, because there will be no more such tragic accidents, to come again to find the culprit elsewhere, not in its inequity. However, we wanted the Government to address, following an urgent procedure, those issues that are really related to licensing, control and possible withdrawal of the licence, which was most controversial, but not to those issues that are conditioned by the system of companies and their organisation in the Chamber of Security. The government objected, as usual, the government has confirmed these views and our proposals have not been accepted. Nevertheless, it is right to admit that the government has made two corrections at this point, which it was unable to make in July, and perhaps if it had done so already in July, it would not have led to veto and that the veto law had not been confirmed. It adopted the definition that the Private Protection Chamber may be reorganised and continue to act as a representative chamber under certain conditions, giving it the only basis for it to be able to exercise part of its public powers. And she said that the monopoly for education and training would not be transferred from the chamber, which was not good, to the Police Security School, which would not have been any better. This could, however, be the result of the law if the current solutions did not provide that education and training could also be carried out by the post-reorganisation chamber, provided that at least 35% of the security providers would be involved, which would be a condition for representativeness. One issue in the law, in our opinion, may not be adequately addressed, this is a matter of specific licences and special forms of protection in discotheques and nightclubs where this protection is most risky. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We expected, on the basis of the warnings we received today from the Private Protection Chamber, that such a proposal could be prepared within the framework of the Government and the government coalition. [[...]] He hasn't been, and since the law goes into the decision-making phase, maybe he won't. Perhaps it would be good for the Government to think about it and propose this addition later, that there should be no doubt that this is the most risky way of protecting ourselves, much more than at public events, although it is the same group here and that the tragedy that we have already witnessed would not be repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u203	Thank you very much. My colleague, Aleš Gulič, will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u204	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have always talked about how the urgent procedure is absolutely unnecessary. Because the argument of what was supposed to be the cause of the emergency procedure was in fact null and void because the cases were already resolved in the existing law. The evidence is that, at the end of the inspectorate, two decisions were taken to suspend the licence at that time. One of them isn't. At that Monday's session, we asked Minister Matthew to step down in some way. Then this was repeated at the 44th emergency session, and I think we might actually find out. I thought he'd already given up because he wasn't here. Well, now he's here. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Protection will not be supported primarily because it is a Trojan horse. It is again an abuse of certain events and, of course, on the basis of these events, things change completely different than they should, and they could go straight through the regular process, with deep consideration, with a feeling and, above all, the will to get things right. This, of course, could not be done in the emergency procedure. Remember how these meetings took place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj will give the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u206	Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The debate of the previous week on the adoption of the amendment to the Law on Private Protection did not take place much different than in the spring of the first adoption of amendments to the law and in June of the debate on veto. The difference is that after the new coordination, a compromise has been reached on the role of the Private Protection Chamber. In the New Slovenia Group we have already pointed out the key importance of education and training of security personnel in the spring discussions. Only professionally qualified personnel capable of responding appropriately in different situations can provide adequate protection of people and property. In our parliamentary group, we believe that this law, in itself, cannot prevent deviant behaviour in the wider area of the places held by poor reputation, but can increase the security of private protection. The faster temporary withdrawal of the licence, the more acute conditions for re-licensing, the newly introduced liability of service subscribers and the increased competence of the inspection are levers that will help the relevant services to act quickly and effectively in critical situations. In the debate on the working body, a consensus was reached on both the amendments and the law itself, and we hope that there will be no major problems in the adoption of the law. In the New Slovenia Group we will also support the proposed changes this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u207	Thank you very much. My colleague, Marjan Drofenik, will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u208	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the proposed amendments and additions to the law on private protection mainly because the current legal arrangements in the area of private protection are weak and inadequate and require changes to the law. We believe that maintaining the current situation in the future would also lead to violations of the rules and ineffective controls and threats to security and property. We will support the proposal for amendments and additions because we are confident that this law will enable the Ministry of the Interior to better control and act more effectively against violators of private protection rules. We also believe that it is appropriate to extend the range of those who will be able to carry out protection education and training. It's right to break up with a monopoly. We want a higher level of security to be ensured and there will be no more anomalies that have had too many serious consequences. We believe that the proposed law will prevent many of the irregularities we have witnessed in recent times. We are confident that this amendment to the law will in the long run constitute more order in the area of private protection. That is why we will support the proposed law on amendments and amendments to the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Dr Pavel Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues! Many things have been said in this marriage today and in the past days. Things are pretty clear. This law came to Parliament on an urgent basis as a result of the tragic events that took place in front of Global. Obviously, if you remember that the police or the Ministry of the Interior did not act sufficiently quickly and effectively, both the minister and the director of the Directorate have shown to the National Assembly that they could not act or the Ministry could not act and the police have been refused amendments to the Law on Private Protection, I think in July in the National Assembly. It has also proved to be in the midst of a number of debates and an expert opinion that this could not be done by the Ministry, and especially by the police, that they had a legal basis for not taking advantage of them, and that, in particular, as regards the withdrawal of temporary licences, even if they had taken action, we can say today that it is not necessary for this event to happen in any case. We'll never know. For all of this he came to the National Assembly by this law, which in its first versions tried to enforce everything that failed in the first attempt in June and July this year. However, there has been a positive turnaround in this process - the ministry has listened at least two or three points, partly to the opposition as well as to the Security Chamber, and has deviated from its most radical proposals. The law is no longer so radical in this sense that it removes all the powers, the powers of the chamber and so on and is in some way digestible if I may say so. However, this law was passed by urgent procedure, at late-night meetings, tired Members, tired representatives of the Government. I'm not sure all the amendments are good, thoughtful, coordinated and there's more to be done. Above all, I am convinced that some initiatives have not been taken into account, which have already been mentioned, which could seriously complement the law at critical points, in particular with regard to psychophysical, educational and other security criteria that protect locals and so on. If we took time, this law, with these amendments, could produce a much better one, it could be significantly better, and in particular we would not take the risk at this point, so that we can do something wrong in this hurry and that will need to be corrected. Because of all of this and because this law is no necessity, and because of this, right now and immediately tomorrow, there will be no more security, we will not support this law. Otherwise, in these and other matters, according to the Zares Group, the new policy has already fallen, at least in our view, to the Minister of Home Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u212	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! The law before us today is the second time in this House. For the first time in this House, we have rejected it on the basis of the Council of State. Today I am dealing with it under some difficult circumstances that have been improvised or created by the Ministry of the Interior. It's about circumstances, tragic circumstances that we're all trying to avoid, an individual who's suffered, I'll say, death on the basis of the reckless, cruel, perverted act of an individual who's served as a security guard at one of the bars in our country. On that basis, we were all under a certain pressure, whether we wanted it or not. But in our opinion, according to the Slovenian National Party, this law would in no way prevent this act even if it had been adopted in June when we dealt with it. It's a classic murder, and the perpetrator has to be found, convicted of the most difficult punishment in this country. It's a pervert who needs to be judged to get it. The question that arises is, for the first time, why isn't this pervert our police, who is so good, so active? Why haven't they caught him yet? And the second question is why this pervert, despite the act he has committed, managed to escape even across the border of the Republic of Slovenia, despite the Minister's assurance that the police have done everything possible to stop him. Why? From Ljubljana to the first frontier is the hour of driving, dear Minister. In an hour, a person can perform a miracle, not just catch the perpetrator. And because it was a murder, you have all the grounds to catch this man, and you didn't. And that's the only eyewitness to the police working in this country. The second statement by the Slovenian National Party goes to an inspection which, in accordance with the legislation in force, could have worked before, irrespective of the law we are talking about today. It could, but it's not. Why not? That's the second clue. All of these are reasons that do not affect the adoption of the law that we are considering today. The Law on Private Protection is a law to regulate this area. More or less recently, it has been speculated that it is people who have two meters in height and two meters in width and need to be inspected separately. To this end, the proposal for a decision on the home working body, which came from the Slovenian National Party and was also supported, for which I thank you, by other parliamentary groups, that the operation of these companies should be processed, reviewed and, if there is a minimum suspicion of any involvement in the crime, a licence should also be taken if necessary. This fund was supported, but for all of this there is a basis in the previous marriage. The new laws that we are considering today are a law that, to a certain extent, hampers the employment of these people. To a certain extent, it lays down, inter alia, the control of the MNZ, which was not active in this case. He fell asleep so he could control the education of these people. Regardless of all, the Minister made such a family or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia made such a family that it would not have happened if this law had been adopted in June. We will not support the law in the Slovenian National Party. We'll stay put. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Which we've had before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Comrade Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u214	Thank you very much. The whole thing has come to an end so that we can speak without very high frequencies and relatively calm, because much of what has been proposed as an improvement has also been accepted in the process. It is true, however, that the law on private protection at this odyssey struck at a certain level, fell on the veto, and then finally held the second vote in the National Assembly. In this event, the position of the DeSUS Group was such that it did not actively support the law proposed at the time, and that it did not support it the second time it was re-elected after the veto. During the period following the tragedy, which somehow accelerated all events, this odyssey almost repeated itself. For one thing, we had a proposal that everyone would have supported if we did not later hang on to it a whole series of articles that were unacceptable to many, but not just articles, but also the procedure itself, which is perhaps the main flaw that remained in the law. The DeSUS Parliamentary Group, summarizing what the Chamber had prepared and what all the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly put together, had proposed several amendments. Some have been accepted, and this is what we call greater co-operation of the Ministry of the Interior than we have been trained to do, and some have been strongly rejected amendments, particularly those linked to a different process of adoption. Even though we have been rejected in this work, we will support the law in our parliamentary group because it is now significantly improved. Still, there remains a kind of bitter taste because of the hasty process and perhaps because of the urgency of the procedure, there are some such provisions in the law that may prove to be bad. For example, a single provision on which chamber may be representative. And it can be shown that the most powerful chamber will not be able to be represented at all in representativeness, because many other smaller institutions will be easier for businesses to meet the required criteria for the number of entities and not the number of those who have to take care of security. This weakness of the procedure, which is wrong, remains, but is due to the events that we have witnessed and because this law is trying to reduce the possibility of such a repetition, the proposal of the law is also supported by the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Ambassador Maria Possonec will give the position of the national community. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u216	Nice greetings to ministers and coworkers. The substance of the proposed amendments is to correct and supplement the law in areas that have proved to be under-defined and therefore unclear for users as well as for security service providers. Otherwise, I am not sure that the adoption of this law could prevent the tragedies that have occurred, but we can only hope that this will make it more cautious. The draft law thus lays down stricter and more precise conditions for obtaining a licence to carry out a private security activity, more precisely the conditions for withdrawal of the licence, the imposition of the responsibility of the contracting authority of the security service, and all these measures are in the interest of ensuring greater human security. In order to obtain a licence to carry out a private security activity, stricter and more precise conditions are laid down and the specific conditions for obtaining a licence for carrying out a private security activity must also be met. Since security guards will also be involved in the work of bilingual nationalists, the Constitution requires that the language of nationality be spoken. With a very modest amendment, I pointed out this, but it turned out that my colleagues did not understand this because it was an economic society. Finally, there was consensus, but there was a bitter feeling that there was still a need to fight for what was self-evident. I certainly want these licensed people to have such psychophysical properties, especially psychological properties, that they will not pose a threat to the insured, and that they will certainly speak the language of nationality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Kovačič will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u218	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, ministers with coworkers! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposed law, because it believes it is high time that the law in force in 2003 is amended and corrected. The current law is flawed, as many examples have also shown, including the recent tragic in Ljubljana, which claimed human life. In the spring we discussed the amendment of the law on private protection, which brought solutions that improve the situation in the area of private protection. When the law was amended, some objected to the fact that there was no need to rush and that the matter should be examined more thoroughly, analysed and amended on this basis, which would also be in line with the Private Protection Chamber. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we were aware that the proposed amendment to the law on private protection was not ideal, but it was an important step forward and would serve as a good basis for future necessary changes, which would be guided by experience in the implementation of the law. To date and to date, the law in force is totally inadequate and its amendment is necessary, regardless of whether any further change or improvement may be necessary in the future. Private security is a private economic activity, but this activity is so specific and in the public interest that it must operate explicitly within the control of a country which must take care of the quality, efficiency and security of the implementation of this activity. It was also a constant stumbling block between the coalition and the opposition. The opposition Members have always advocated and advocated for as much autonomy as possible in the implementation of the economic activity of private protection, while the coalition Members have advocated the need to ensure that the State is supervised over the implementation of this activity and also on the training of personnel who are direct security providers. Today's law further strengthens certain conditions that private security operators must fulfil and increase control over the implementation of legal provisions, lays down stricter and more precise conditions for obtaining a licence, as well as the conditions for withdrawing a licence from private security service providers. It is clear that such a good law, such good work and supervision of all competent authorities from the police, inspection and other institutions within and outside the Ministry of the Interior cannot and will never be able to prevent all violations of the legislation and not all the tragic consequences that this can produce. When some speak and scandalize the police, who couldn't catch the killer in front of Global within an hour, by escaping abroad, they forget that some criminals are hunting the most capable intelligence services in the world, and they don't get them in years. We probably know who we're talking about, because these are commonly known facts. This is where the police are supposed to catch all the criminals immediately in one hour. I think it's too much of a simplification of problems. However, our task is to try to put in place such a legislative framework to ensure that people and property are protected as qualitatively as possible, while also ensuring effective control over the implementation of this activity in order to reduce the possibility of different events of excellence to the lowest possible extent possible. In the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are still aware that this law is certainly not an ideal law. Therefore, in the future, given further experience in the application and implementation of these legal provisions, and also on the basis of expertise in this field, there is likely to be a need to amend or supplement this law. However, we are convinced that now the 2003 law in force is a bad law that does not provide the necessary transparency over private protection. In view of the laxity of the conditions laid down for the exercise of this activity, the law in force now permits companies and individuals who are not qualified enough or qualified to do so to obtain a licence for the conduct of private security activities, and in particular the lack of adequate supervision of the exercise of this activity. Therefore, in practice, we are facing cases of completely mistaken protection, as was the case in the case of Lipa or the Bank’s SKB, or abuse of security protection for the criminal rescue of security guards, as was the case in the case of Global. That is why this law needs to be adopted today.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u219	Thank you very much. All the parliamentary groups have put forward their views and we are moving on to a debate and decision on the article and the amendment tabled. On the table you received an amendment dated today, signed by four members: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, to Article 27. Before opening the application procedure, however, allow me to warn you that in the case of this amendment it is exclusively a harmonisation amendment, so I ask you to discuss it properly. Thank you very much for helping the entire SLS Group. And I'm opening the procedure. Please, who wants to talk about applying? [[Nobody.]] Let's do it again. I'm asking you again for your application. Since no one wants to debate, I am also closing the debate and moving on to decision-making. We will decide on the amendment to Article 27, which has been signed by the four groups of Members. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our decision-making on the amendment and thus a second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly, as you have seen earlier, has adopted the amendment to Article 27 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this Article. [[No, no, ……]] Once again, I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law, due to the amendment adopted in the second reading, would not have been harmonised. We can therefore move on to a full decision on the proposal for a law. Before I put the motion to a vote, please apply on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr Boštjan Zagorac, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u220	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I'm not going to ask the government because I know it can't answer me, but I'm going to rhetorically ask whether today we're going to stop further killings that will take place in Slovenian restaurants, discotheques or wherever night life is going on. I don't think so. The directors will remain equal, equally qualified, equally savage, the same. Today, by adopting this law, we give nothing to anyone. We're giving the MNZ the right to train a bunch of ex-cops who have their own personal grudges when this happens. I still argue, and in the Slovenian National Party, we feel the same way that it happened in the case of Global, on the basis of which unfortunately the conviction of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which I feel is low, that on the basis of one case the adoption of this law will not happen. This is a murder and this murder should be investigated by the police of the Republic of Slovenia. Why isn't he here? That's the question. Why the inspection services did not prevent the operation of the VIP protection service before. All the grounds were given for this. The rhetorical question Minister, once again: Was the perpetrator, rhetorically I ask, was the perpetrator really an informer of the Slovenian police and therefore managed to cross the border of the Republic of Slovenia? In an hour, you will arrest me if I do anything wrong, but you could not, even though you did, Minister according to your words, do everything you can in this country to arrest him. Once again, in the Slovenian National Party, at the expense of this sad event that has taken place in the Republic of Slovenia, we will not fall under the pressure exerted by this Government because there are no other conditions and reasons why such a law is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u221	Does anyone else want to explain their decision before the vote on their behalf? I'm opening the procedure, please. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u222	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I will not support this bill. This is an abuse of the Institute of Emergency Procedure. The reasons for the urgency of the procedure differ from what the proposal for a law did. In fact, it happened that twice or three times the law was rejected was put back into procedure and, of course, if not the other, that is not fair. But it's more than that. It is not the first time that an event or the fact that something has not been done has been said to have been misused in some way to change the law. We have heard similar reasons in many cases, such as in tobacco law, because the inspectors could not somehow get to these places and punish them, but we will change the law. Now we've got it again. Since we were unable to act on our appearance, although in some cases it was very easy to act, we will change the law, not in the part that would actually solve these kinds of problems, but in those [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] another part that would allow the State to exercise greater control over the security forces and establish a sub-police system. [[...]] Of course, I am also interested at this point in how many of these "safeguards" in the props, and those real ones were reviewed in the raids at the bars, and from what I've heard, they were only guests. So, not that one. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] First-written security guards, not their "hangmans," not because they were already informed that this was going to happen. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u223	Thank you very much. I call upon the Ambassador, Mr. Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u224	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. I will abstain in this vote for the reasons already stated by the representative or the leader of our Group. Therefore, we do not wish to oppose the adoption of the law and thus insist on the assessment that the Ministry does not accept all responsibility. In doing so, I must say that this is an abuse of an unfortunate event, so that the proposer through the side door can take away what he was unable to do during the previous regular procedure. The fact is that within three years the Ministry has not adopted a regulation on inspection, which it was obliged to take care of, and is an abuse of the urgency procedure. And I don't want to be the one who, as they call it, would be holding a "stango" to the Ministry. Let him just take responsibility for his actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that. Minister, I'm going to say it's ugly or morally controversial that human tragedy is being used for its own cheap promotion. I've talked to people a while ago, and I'm going to say, from practice, to those who have known themselves to nightlife and who have witnessed nothing many times, but not as bad, but also as bad events as the last tragedy that encouraged you to reinstate the law. And you know what these people say? We laugh at you because you have no idea what you're doing. This marriage won't save anything. You have to do things differently, somewhere else. And Minister, if you really have such very good intentions or the power to prevent future tragedies in our country under this law, then answer me, not today, because I know you can't today, one simple question: Why haven't you responded? Three years have passed since I first asked you to amend pedophile legislation accordingly. A law that will allow polygraph testing that will allow tracking to the perpetrators. You know, this is how you can prevent future tragedies. With this law, unfortunately, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u227	How will you vote? Member Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u228	Thank you so much for saying that. If we still have such good legislation, if we still have such good law enforcement authorities, the police, the prosecution and so on, we will never be able to prevent all crimes. And there's not a police force in the whole world capable of catching all the criminals in an hour. It's not that, it's an ideal state, but it's not in reality. It takes a lot of time, even years, to detect and catch criminals who then process them. But we must try to draw up as best a legal framework as possible, a legal framework that will make it possible for all those responsible to act as best as possible. And I therefore hope that this time the law will go through, that the situation from a few months ago will not happen again, when we have a veto and then a missing 46 vote, that we will finally adopt a law that represents a major step forward for a more effective regulation of the field of protection and, above all, for a significantly better control of this area. Which is why, of course, I'm going to support the marriage, just like I did a few months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're reopening the application procedure. If you'll excuse me, please. Member Joseph Školč has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u230	Thank you very much. I will vote against the adoption of this law. I will vote against it for a number of reasons. The first is because the minister and the government majority are forcing this National Assembly to obtain the necessary majority, and it has already been tested here with almost identical solutions. Secondly, I will vote against it because I am disappointed because the Minister, instead of offering new solutions or at least his resignation from the post of Head of the Authority, forces Slovenian policy to collect 46 votes, has failed to obtain them in the National Assembly and not in the State Council. As the seventh hour is approaching, I am also pleased to see with us here a fellow Grimes, who was told today that he will also take over reading in the radio log and is still with us and leave the program for today to run in its own way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I'll support this marriage because I just have to support it. And it is a shame that the law is no longer in force, because most of those, I am talking about most, not all who opposed the original law, were building this opposition at the wrong starting point. That's why I'm gonna back him up. The view is that supporting the education, upgrading and training of security personnel is not only contrary to the proposal itself, which provides for the consolidation of the situation of private economic activity in the area of private protection, but is contrary to the entire official policy of the Republic of Slovenia and the EU, whereby the country is to withdraw from the economy as far as possible. The subject matter of the amendments is thus unacceptable as regards the setting up of conditions for the implementation of the activities and the completion and training of security personnel in view of the opposition to official policy, while at the same time contrary to the current constitutional regime, as it takes a free initiative for the economy. This is said to be not a private economic activity, but it has some important social elements and has a broader framework than just obtaining business and forging profits. Sadly, this proved to be true after we rejected this law, so such a law had to be reinstated, whatever it was, even if it had been amended. I'm glad there's been some kind of consensus, and now it's what we're expecting, and it's a shame it's already fallen. The assumptions on which it was rejected, but most of them, once again, I stress, not all, were based on the wrong assumption I read. And that's why I support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u233	Thank you very much. The words of their fellow Member, Bosniak Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u234	I regret that the adoption of this law is based on some of the tragedies that have occurred in this country. But the question is rhetorical again: Why do we not yet have a perpetrator? If the police were effective, they'd have the unsub by now. Not the police, the media released a photo, a name and a last name, but we don't have the unsub yet. Who's doing the wrong thing? The media? Police? But we don't have a perp yet. It's a classic murder. If this law were in force in June, it would still be a classic murder. We'd still have a man with a name and a name. Do not speak to me or consider this law as my colleagues have said, that if this law were adopted in June, today peace in this country would be in the field of private protection. That's not true! That's not true! This is the story you want to include in the heads of Slovenes and Slovenians. That's not true! This story of private protection needs to be resolved differently. Crimes will not be prevented by this law, they will be prevented by a law on criminal offences, by a criminal code. Change is coming soon. Then I will see you, gentlemen and ladies, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] How human and willing you are to solve the real problems in this country. [[...]] Not today, today it is possible to bark into the full moon or into the empty moon. This law will not change crime, it will still happen, this law will not accelerate the effectiveness of the police, the police will be just as effective as it was. Let's do one other thing to make the police effective, Minister. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This is a proposal not to end up like a colleague. [[...]] I'm stressing again, I'm not going to support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u235	Thank you. Member Anton Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u236	I think that the abuse mentioned today by all sides of the tragic event in front of Global began, in fact, by requiring an urgent meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, where it sought to identify the possible suspension of the duty of Minister Matei in relation to this case. And of course, this has been linked explicitly to the law that we are talking about today. And it seems really unethical to me that it is obvious either to the government or to anyone that this law is now trying to solve this problem, because, of course, it cannot. And some debaters also talk about another subject, as the law says. At the same time, I find it inappropriate from some colleagues who also talk about the problems of informants, but I think that the wrong parliamentary group has highlighted this. I think that this is one of the laws that was actually in this procedure, even if the urgent procedure reached a compromise that the debates were correct, the opposition's proposals were taken into account. I'm surprised the law isn't acceptable. I think that the previous set of laws, following an emergency procedure, has adopted a lot and probably the arguments you are demanding for this law have not been met. In view of the fact that we all refer to the situation that is pressing and the fact that the law solves a particular problem, we will support the law. And I also find it incorrect to associate this with the Minister's resignation at this point because the law was as much coordinated as possible, not only with the public concerned, but also with the opposition. Today I can also see when the opposition has repeatedly pointed out that we are rejecting their proposals in principle, but today I can say that the opposition [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Apparently, it rejects coordinated proposals in principle, and I find this somewhat inappropriate. [[...]] We will, of course, also because the matter has been harmonised, we have supported the law and because it seems to us that the law is improving the current situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Member Stanislav Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u238	Thank you so much for saying that. Two months ago, there was a 46th vote. If it was mine, I'm proud of it. And it is right that he found himself, not for the first time, but not for the last time, for things that are bad for citizens and citizens. This law establishes private protection, one of the fundamental principles of the European Union, which is a condition for regulating internal systems and subsystems in society, subsidiarity. According to the previous law, it is conscious or intentional because of such mistrust as this ministry cultivates, and also any ministry and indirectly through the Government, to people who are, in principle, ours, not ours, and to institutions. Therefore, the fundamental principle, as I see it, has not been respected, this is the fundamental principle of social partnership, when we talk about the labour law, is not here because it is a matter of private protection, although it is socially beneficial, that principle has been respected. That's why I was against the law. The Minister has now found that this dialogue is needed, that subsidiarity should be introduced for the regulatory regulation of this system and could take this into account. And for me, marriage is much more acceptable now than it was then. My voice, Mr Kovacic, will be 46 years old when it comes to bad states and societies.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Member Branko Grimes has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u240	Thank you for your word. Of course I'll support the marriage. If anything has convinced me that it is imperative to support it, it is an infinite hypocrisy, which today was a red thread of debate in this Chamber about this law. In fact, those who have shown the most aggressively with their finger on the government and who have been pouring crocodiles of tears are exactly the same people who, when this government has detected the problem in time and has proposed an appropriate law on private protection, have allowed the law to never enter into force by voting against the law. Of course, no law alone can save human life, but the proper legal framework reduces the possibility of tragedy. And because of all this intense aggressive talk, some with very inappropriate expressions, there was nothing more than washing your own bad conscience and hiding your dirty face, so you point to someone else, in this case to the Minister and to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. When you meet one of the relatives who was hurt by that tragedy, I know you'll smile and point your finger at the government again. But I hope you have at least so much conscience out there in the extreme corner of your soul that at least you'll be quiet, as you deserve, fair shame. As I say, I will, of course, support the marriage itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u241	Can we get to the vote? I'm opening a re-circuit. Here you go. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u242	The security issue has become a real problem. Inflation is proof that economic security has become a real problem. Deaths in Lipa, death in Global, and when young people start talking, either way or I don't go, it shows that physical safety has become a problem. We have a law on police, we have a law on private protection, we have a law on public order and peace, but that's why after recent incidents we don't have any more cops on the streets. Go to any European capital, and you will see who is the one to whom security is provided in the evening. If it is and if it is a philosophy that everyone should have a security guard who will protect him from another security guard, then the Ministry of the Interior and the police, as we have it, we do not need. And I would like today to talk more about what the Minister will do in order to carry out his task, which is to increase the physical security of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. But I only see marks parked in front of bars when gentlemen or ladies go for coffee. And if you want to call someone in Ljubljana today at 2:00 a.m., then the response is about an hour and a half or more. That's why the law won't solve the problem. On the contrary, I think that the law is a political answer to a real problem when someone has lost their lives because the state has not played its role as it should. And that's the real problem with today's discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Member Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u244	Thank you very much. I didn't want to reopen the debate we had at the working body and the assembly, but the lies, the lies, the lies, the truths, the lies that some members of the coalition are declaring again, are forcing me to say. Government, the Ministry of the Interior justifiably had a bad conscience because of the accident that happened, not the subjective influence, but the bad conscience. That's why she was looking for someone she could point to. And she pointed out to us Members who were supposed to adopt the wrong law. But in that she lied, lied, told again, it's an ugly expression, I don't like to use it, only when it comes to knowingly lying, I have to use it, I lied to have a legal basis for action when the law was passed in July, when the veto wasn't adopted, and now she didn't have it. And what was the lie about? The government proposed the only legal basis, which was Article 40 for the withdrawal of a temporary measure, which would cut itself off from the possibility of action. That would have happened. Therefore, to say that there is a reason not to accept the law does not correspond to the truth. If the government wanted to, the police could act. This has also been explicitly said in the opinion of the Institute of Public Administration, which is now being rejected with its left hand as an irrelevant document. However, when it "feeds" it is considered by the Government and this ministry to be the chronic proof of some justification. My conclusion is, if we were smart, and we tried to do it today, we would stop talking about the past, but we were looking for solutions to improve security together. [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That's why it's not and can't be just the police responsible, so it won't just solve the problems of the law. [[..]] But the worst thing is, on a specific case, we're accused of lying to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Member Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u246	Thank you. Your Honor, I'm not going to call you a replica. There have been two accidents and a minister, whom I respect very sincerely, still, Mr Bozič has flown away. And I respect him, and I want him in my place. It happened to Lipa, it happened to Global, and I respect the minister in this place, and if the government had the same criteria, it had to fly away. I respect the minister, the one and the other "apropo" expressions of hypocrisy. That's what happened. Christmas flew, and I respect him, and Mate didn't fly, and I respect him. The mother’s working body adopted a decision, unfortunately proposed by the Slovenian National Party, to review all security services by May 2008 and to expel irresponsible persons. Does this mean that the government did not respect this decision, or does this mean that an event has caused someone to be smarter than someone who proposes it? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Once again, with all due respect for work, like the previous law and the present law, it is not possible to resolve the situation created by the adoption of a new law. Once again, I respect the Minister of Transport, who is no longer, I respect Matthew, who should be - I speak, and without offense, Mr Mate, on the same terms of the Government - not anymore, but [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] To solve with the law of "minorities", in pronunciations, the little things that people take cannot be solved. [[...]] It's not working. It's not working. Let us, however, respect the decision taken on the parent’s working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Your time is up. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u248	Thank you very much. I have to say that I didn't intend to come to the phone at all, you've seen that I haven't yet pressed the voice-explanatory button today, and not before, because I don't think there's much to say about this law. However, given that some people in this room feel that they can speak whatever they want without any limit, without any moral sense of truth, and remain alive, as it is called, I think it is right for me to answer. In order to vote as I vote on this bill, I will not explain to you because you will see me vote anyway in the statement, but I must say that in such lies that the Slovenian public can then listen and see the person who speaks them, we do not have to agree. And that the fact is, I will repeat what has already been said, unfortunately, but I have to repeat that the law that was passed or rejected last month would simply not ensure the prevention of events either in Global, or in Lipa or elsewhere, because it did not have any such content. On the contrary, he even prevented the police from taking action and the Ministry of the Interior. If we have come so far as to be able to reverse the truth without any consequences, then I really don't think the National Assembly really deserves any respect for any more Slovenian voters.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Member Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u250	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will support this law, the most surprising of which is the deception and deception of colleagues from the Social Democracy, who here accuse the Minister and also his team, deception, deception, a sense of bad conscience, but it is indisputable that you have the power to detect bad conscience and deception. It is you who, in the past, branded the police as repressive, that we go to the police state, that in procedures where they acted preventively, you marked it as actually doing illegal, illegal and so on. But when such a tragic case actually happens, you try to put all the blame on it again. This is unfair and unfair. If we want the police to do their job the way we all want it to do, as we expect it to be safe, we need to provide it with the first legal basis and allow it to have jurisdiction. And this very law also increases her powers to do what she can: directly from now on. It is true, however, that its operation must also be monitored at all times so as not to be abused in any way. Let's give the police jurisdiction, give her a chance to work, and I am sure that such events will be virtually less significant than they have been before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u251	Procedural proposal? Comrade Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u252	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I'd just like to warn you about the management of this session. It seems to me inhumane, twisted, rotten, or otherwise, if I can be even more graveful, that there is a tragedy like what happened before Global, on the hand or on the chest or on the voting machine of one of the members of the group. It can be done by someone who has rotted to the end. And this, it seems to me, is not something to be tolerated in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u253	Comrade Zagorac, make a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u254	For this reason, I ask you to warn all the other discussers not to blame for the tragedy that has occurred and is independent of us here in this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u255	We understand, thank you very much. I must warn you that for the last half hour during the explanations of vote, I do not think there was one Member who would properly explain his voice, no matter where it comes from. I suggest we end with an explanation of vote. [[No, no, no. You don't want to.]] Comrade Hwauc, would you like me to reopen the procedure? Excuse me, Comrade Geza Juban, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This meeting seems to me to be one of the toughest in its content, especially after the language used in these days in the National Assembly. And I agree with those who say there are quite a few expressions here used that are not suitable for this hall and the National Assembly. After the procedure that it is, I will say that I will support the law, even though I am trying to conclude that it is inappropriate for the law to be adopted after a reduced procedure. And if it were put in at that time with some appropriate content to allow the Government to accept the compromises offered, this law would also be available in one normal or shorter procedure. At the same time, I am trying to think that what is being incited to accept it under global pressure is unacceptable and I am also trying to prove to myself that we are accepting it at one time when we do not even know about Global. And the last. To repeat what I said at the beginning, you're reading someone's ugly face, but I think it's extremely inappropriate for them to be doing it here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u257	Thank you very much. I'll open the application procedure for the fourth time. I ask all those who wish to explain their vote before the vote to do so now. Member Borut Sayovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, the law we are adopting today is trying to correct a sad story that is not political. Those who, in such incidents as happened before Global, are probably not to blame, do not have the shortest end, do not have political color, not that different, especially people and such important topics as this, no doubt deserve their time rather than a short and fast process. Even if this law were to have so many and so many days ago, it is unlikely that such human negligence and stupidity can prevent. He opened a fast marriage process and showed a lot of bad things and some good things. Without a doubt, he drew the Ministry's views and the Minister's and the Chamber's views, and I consider this to be positive, but of course I do not support such a law, which provides quick ad hoc solutions and therefore I will not support the law. As important a topic as security for Slovenians and Slovenians, it simply takes more time and even deeper and more imaginary solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Member Pavel Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I took the floor because, during this debate, I changed my position and it is right to explain it. If I had previously believed and believed that I would abstain from this law and with similar arguments that have already been said here, I would, in the course of this debate, mainly under the impression of the debate of some members of the coalition, members of the coalition, change my opinion and I will vote against this law. I will vote against this law, even if in some of the solutions it is better, at least slightly better than that law, which we have finally rejected on the basis of veto. And I will vote precisely for reasons that are not meant to be, as was said, but that are symbolic, that, in fact, here and now, I also distinguish from the public and separate from the arguments that have been given here that I have nothing to do with them. Although I know that it will be interpreted in one way or another, it is clear to me at the same time that even if the law were once better or now better, all accidents and accidents cannot be prevented and no one will. And especially those who have vowed and given these words that now they will be able to catch all the noncompromising, such or otherwise, we will have to look at these separately below. That's why, of course, as I mentioned. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Although I think that the law is slightly better than before, I cannot support it at symbolic level precisely because it would be different and separate itself from the arguments given here by the ruling coalition. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Member Srečko Hvauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u262	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. In the debate, the long debates that were before we came to this moment have clearly shown that the existing law, which was adopted in 2003, is simply no longer good. I'm not going to discuss why, but it turns out he's not good. Following the tragic event in Lipa, the Ministry of the Interior immediately initiated procedures to amend and supplement the law to prevent similar or other events. In the National Assembly, we have been working for almost a year on amendments and additions to the Law on Private Protection, which, unfortunately, in June or July, experienced a veto or a lack of votes to enter into force. This does not mean, of course, that if the law had been adopted at that time, it could have prevented further victims or events, but that it would certainly have been possible to improve the conditions and reduce the chances that such and similar events would no longer happen. And the good purpose of this law must not be overlooked. A good purpose if we want to improve security if we want to tighten the conditions if we want those violators who are consciously serving in order to benefit from it to break the law [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] If we want to make their lives miserable and make their business more difficult, I don't think we can argue with that. [[...]] The urgent procedure, why the urgent procedure, can also be discussed whether or not an emergency procedure is needed, but life goes on. And tomorrow, a new tragedy can happen today. That is why I think it is necessary to adopt such a law because it improves the situation, because it improves the possibilities for control and because it prevents similar tragedies, even in the future, from happening, I will also break this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u263	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 6. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the law has been passed. And that concludes this point. However, before I adjourn the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly, a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u264	I don't mean to be rude, but I should have called someone good morning at this point. The explanation of vote cannot be concluded as long as it is of interest to explain the voice. This was also accepted by the Rules of Procedure Commission when we explained this because the initiative was given. And as long as the hands to explain the vote, the chairman, you must give your word to the one who wants to explain the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-29-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u265	Thank you very much. I explain the Rules of Procedure during the meeting. I also interrupt the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a nice evening ahead.
