ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 31st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Willi Rezman from 13:00 on, mag. Anton Rop, Franz Pukšič from 15:00 on, Josef Školč, Michael Prevc, Bojan Kontič from 15:00 on and Miran Jerič. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE LEGISLATION PROCEDURE OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION FOR REGULAR CALLS WITH REGARD TO REGULAR RELIEF ACTIVITIES IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you are, Mr. Marco Stroves, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u2	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament! The new law is prepared to comply with the European Directive, namely, in the proposal for this amendment, we have our obligations to recognise the qualifications of those citizens of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation who come to provide us with a service. In this case, too, it is necessary to verify in advance whether any qualification meets what is prescribed for a regulated profession. We have also added some improvements to the law, particularly in order to simplify procedures. So far, these procedures have been fully managed by the Ministry of Labour, which has had to consult the Ministry, which is responsible for a specific area of qualification, on all substantive issues. The Ministry will now play only the role of coordinator and the point where stakeholders will be able to learn everything that is important in this process. The process itself will then be led by ministries which are responsible for each area. This bill also regulates the way in which data is exchanged between countries, especially between the country where someone has acquired qualifications and our country where a regulated profession will take place. All these matters, which have been corrected by law, are necessary and, above all, are submitted in order to make the procedure smoother, more rational and, above all, faster. Liability lines are also set up, which is very important, so that now the body that will decide whether to recognise a person's qualifications will actually be responsible that everything he has found is also actually true. The law is necessary, even because of the deadlines [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] we have a directive to implement. [[...]] For this reason, on behalf of the Government, I propose that you adopt the law in the text before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. I therefore ask President Stanislav Brenčič to submit the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, I welcome all of you and the others here in the hall. At its 29th regular meeting, on 12.9.2007, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the procedure for the recognition of qualifications for citizens of the Member States of the European Union for the exercise of regulated professions or regulated professional activities in the Republic of Slovenia. Representatives of the proposer with the Secretary of State, Mr Mark Strovs, and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly with Mrs Andreja Kurent participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was informed of the written opinion of the Law and Law of the Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and made comments in detail to all the articles of the law. In addition to a number of specific comments, the Law-Legal Service has pointed out an inappropriate nomotechnic approach to the drafting of the Law, since the nomotechnic guidelines issued by the Government's Law Service in 2004 provide for the preparation of a new law instead of an amendment already in the event that one third of the articles of the current law are amended. As a result, the Committee also had quite a lively debate and some members of the Committee agreed with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and in this regard also proposed a procedural decision that the law was not a suitable basis for further consideration. By 4 votes in favour, 7 against the proposal for a decision. Amendments to the draft law were tabled within the time limit for the amendment of the four coalition groups of Members, referring to all the articles to which the Legislative and Legal Service had made significant comments. All these amendments received support, after a debate of course. The Committee also drafted its amendment to Article 7 for a new Article 5.b, the amendment to the amendment to Article 7 and Article 5d and the amendment to Article 28. All adopted is an integral part of the complementary draft law before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Good morning, everyone! Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We do not, in principle, oppose the laws which bring the requirements of the European Directive into our legal order at the Liberal Democratic Club of Slovenia. In a specific case, however, we oppose the consideration and adoption of the law that the Government has sent into parliamentary procedure, and the text is nomotechnically and substantively unacceptable. Such poorly prepared law also points to the underestimated attitude of the Government towards the work of the National Assembly and at the same time points to the servitude of the National Assembly, which treats such poorly prepared laws in general and does not reject them as inappropriate for further consideration. As the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has already pointed out in its opinion, the draft law changes all the articles of the law and also its title, which, in terms of transparency, is inappropriate for the proposed law, which refers to amendments and additions to the existing law. It is also contrary to the nomotechnic guidelines issued by the Government's Law Service in 2004 and which provide for the drafting of a new law, rather than the amendment, in the event that a third of the articles of the current law change. However, it should be noted once again that the legislative procedure in the National Assembly is subject to double criteria and that the proposal was considered at the meeting of the home labour body, despite the failure to comply with the provisions of Article 115 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Contrary to the clear provision of the Rules of Procedure, the draft law does not have well-founded legal provisions, since they summarize the provisions of the bill and do not explain the novelty. Nor has a comparative legal review been submitted. On the contrary, the proposals of the opposition law, which had all the necessary components, were not allocated to the parliamentary procedure and to the treatment. Although the marriage is poor from a nominal point of view, it is also technically incomplete. We would therefore like to point out in the LDS Club that we have before us the text of the law if, at today's hearing, almost all the members are open, because the amendments to almost all the articles were adopted at the meeting of the mother's working body, which points once again to a superficial and quickly written law by the Government. Let us note that on the parental committee by Mr State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Mr Stroves, it has been said that this is a purely technical law which regulates, as the title already says, the procedure. Interestingly, then the so-called technical law needs to be amended by amendments in substance, which points to an unreasonably and unprofessionally prepared law. The law was so supplemented and amended that today we have a completely different version of the text in the National Assembly. We therefore have doubts about how to trust and trust the Government and the text of the law, which has to complement and change the meaning of the concepts dealt with by the law. In this regard, it is of particular concern that the importance of the definition of professional qualifications has to be complemented, since the text of the law refers specifically to the recognition of qualifications of EU Member States' nationals for the conduct of regulated professions or regulated professional activities in the Republic of Slovenia. Nor is the relationship between this law and the National Professional Qualifications Act explained, since this is a very similar matter. For all of this and because we do not want to participate in such practice in the LDS Club in the National Assembly, we will not support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Horvat Jože has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon to all those who accompany us, welcome to the Secretary of State, Mr Strovs and to your distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the coming years, more deregulation of professions should be achieved in the light of the recommendations of the European Union. Restricting access to professions and activities by formally defining the titles of professional and professional education is one of the reasons that prevent greater mobility and flexibility of the labour force. When assessing the need for deregulation of a regulated profession, and in particular before adopting a new regulation, it is necessary to examine carefully whether the formal setting of conditions for vocational and professional education and of titles of public interest such as health, life, environment, consumer protection achieves an appropriate level of professional standards. The amendment of the law on the procedure for the recognition of qualifications for nationals of the Member States of the European Union for the exercise of regulated professions or regulated professional activities in the Republic of Slovenia aligns the legal order of Slovenia with the legal order of the European Union. The new law regulates the occasional and occasional provision of services, the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the management of regulated professions or activities in Slovenia, in accordance with the criteria laid down in the Directive. The note foresees a reduction in the administrative procedures for the recognition of qualifications, as the candidate will apply directly to the competent ministry which will issue the decision and forward it to the candidate. The Ministry will also have the opportunity to request the opinion of the Chamber in the proceedings. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will still remain an information point to provide candidates with basic information on the procedure for recognition of professional qualifications. The Law also provides for administrative cooperation between the competent authorities, in particular at the level of data exchange, between the Slovenian competent authorities and the competent authorities of other Member States. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the proposed changes to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u10	Thank you very much, once again, for your word. Well, despite the fact that this proposal changes the entire text of a number of articles, the "gro" content of the law remains of a distinctly technical nature, as it is practically translated or transposed into the European Directive and its amendment directly into our legal order, which, due to the frequent direct translation, causes many difficulties in understanding a rather specific form of the record. Behind this law and its like, we had a very similar procedure in adopting it in previous mandates, when we directly transposed them from the European directives and aligned our legal order with the order of the European Union. One of the innovations brought by this proposal is certainly the establishment of a national coordinator to ensure the uniform application of the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications and the rationalisation of procedures within the framework of the national administration. With this, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs takes over practically all coordination for the application of the Directive. However, changes in the law are directed by the Member States of the European Union and also by us or the Republic of Slovenia to achieve greater deregulation of professions and thus to greater mobility and flexibility of the labour force. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the proposal for a law that has been passed on to the working body because of its specific nature.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Good morning! Dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr Secretary of State and also all those who are watching us on TV screens! If I go back for a moment to the consideration of the law on the working body, then I can no doubt, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, say, "Thank God there was no direct transfer at that time," because the law, in the form that it was submitted to the working body of the mother, was a complete stalemate. The draft Law of the 32nd Articles received 21 amendments, which were pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. And when I look at the updated bill or novel today, everything is dark, sickened or repaired. If we want to draw attention to another nonsense or to the totally unprofessional approach of this government and these coalitions - Nomotechnical Guidelines issued by the Government's Legislative Office on the basis of legal power in 2004. They provide for the preparation of a new law instead of an amendment in the event that a third of the articles of the current law change. Has this government coalition overtaken the warning, not only of the National Legislative and Legal Service, but also of the Government Law Service? I wonder why we actually have individual professional services and their employed experts, but when politics or power policy is always the one with the last word. The novelty in question is expected to be the result of a new legislation on the recognition of professional qualifications, which we need to transpose into our legal order by 20 October this year. But we missed that date anyway. What did the Ministry do for so long, I wonder, with the translation of the English text? Why did I mention the translation of the English text and not the implementation of the directive? Because the matter in question is actually a very bad future translation. What we have already heard on the working body and what is still in force today, we do not know how this law will actually live in practice, because it is not even consistent with our legislation, so I will say that it is not fair in the context of a substantive debate, on issues and really open dilemmas with the opposition or on the part of the opposition, to reject it only with the excuse that Europe has given us a deadline and that is why we must accept this document. As far as content is concerned, I will say, Slovenian workers are already largely underprotected today. The state, even though it has a legal basis, does not perform its functions. And I'm going to give the most obvious example of government ignorance - asbestos patients. The government should reimburse people, but it just doesn't. Why am I bringing this up? Because the proposed Article 7 of the Act, which we are considering today, is about professions that can cause serious harm to public health or safety. What professions are this, it is not clearly written down, and the Secretary of State did not know how to tell us this on the committee. However, it is clearly stated in the draft law that if the competent ministry does not carry out all checks on the suitability of candidates for a particular profession, which may result in serious harm to public health or safety, the provider may nevertheless start to provide this service. He can start doing them, so, without any prior checks. I wonder if we've really become such a carefree society. Since time haunts me, allowing me to speak of other substantive things, I will say nonsense not to speak, but only to conclude. If, after the second hearing at the meeting of the National Assembly, matters remain so very incomplete, then I can certainly attach, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, that such a law, despite the European Union's urging us, will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Figures on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u14	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary of State. Well, this amendment to the law essentially covers the field of occupations and activities for which, in addition to the relevant professional education, it is required to fulfil the specific conditions laid down in specific laws or regulations. The law introduces a new chapter covering the area of occasional and occasional service management in the Republic of Slovenia or introduces a directive governing this area for the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. The Directive provides that a host Member State shall not refuse to refuse a service provider from another Member State or from the area of those countries which I have mentioned, provided that it has been established in accordance with its rules for the purpose of carrying out that profession in the host Member State. If the establishment of a registered office is not regulated in a Member State, the service provider must fulfil the conditions for the provision of services in a Member State and the establishment of a seat, at least two years in the last 10 years, continuously or jointly. But the essence of all these changes is to meet the deadline for implementing the directive in our legal order. The deadline is October 20th so that this deadline can still be captured. The criticism is unjustifiable that no comparative legal representation has been given here in the proposal for amendments to the law. This cannot be done because no member is yet to implement this Directive in its legal order. In addition, I think it is extremely unfair, in fact, to work out of an elephant fly because of the 21 supplements accepted by the Government on the proposals of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Of these 21, he added five or six of them to the Swiss Confederation. In addition, the movements referred to in one article to another are such that there were no substantive additions to those 21s. The request for termination of the procedure due to one third of the excess was incorrect. There have also been such corrections in which individual concepts, which have been combined into one sentence after that, have been cited nicely in the indents and in fact very nicely and beautifully explain what this law, the amendment of the law deals with and transposes from the Directive. The dilemma was, in fact, given that this technical transposition has, in fact, laid down directives in terms of terminology, language and meaning, how we understand the individual terms used by the European Union in our environment. In fact, the biggest debate got heated in terms of the term "competence", where, I hope, we finally consolidated our understanding and also with such definitions in some way, I think, avoided a double understanding of our law by users from other countries of the European Union. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the procedure has been corrected, that the amendment of the law is useful and necessary and we fully support it. I wouldn't comment on all the discussions here. Our Group of Members will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Expenditure on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Dear Mr. Secretary of State! The question to be asked at the beginning of the consideration of this bill is: Who are the laws actually directed to? And if the laws are intended for users, then it is the purpose of whether the drafters should be intended to have a clear text that would not require further interpretations and determine possible different interpretations. Therefore, it is not such a preposterous warning of a poorly prepared amendment to the law. It was pointed out that the Law-Legal Service had a lot of comments on the fact that it was actually a new legal text, not a novelty. Let me illustrate this with numbers: the basic law has 34 articles, amended proposal 32. Someone may talk about editorial interventions, but I think that the hearing in the National Assembly would deserve a properly prepared bill, as well as, if it is, as it was said, only for some part of the editorial corrections. Here, let us warn the Social Democrats that we are all too often witnessing on our working bodies that editorial corrections are being carried out in one way or another. Comments from the Legislative and Legal Service, which are of a content nature, are usually ignored, released, overlooked or overexamined. It's not just the scale of the one who interfered with the legal and legal service. She was also disturbed by a poor explanation. The explanation offers only the transcripts of the articles, and nowhere does it warn what news brings. And if what is true news is the first A chapter, poorly explained and unclear even, then those who advocate and defend the law-makers should seriously consider their responsibility to the electorate and electorate. The Directive adopted by Slovenia in this proposal was adopted in 2005 and so far, it has been said, has not yet been implemented by any European country and has therefore not been accompanied by a comparative legal review. But I point to something else: In the draft law that we have received or in the bill, it also says that by the same date as the date of implementation of the law, the Government must also prepare other sub-laws. Whether they are ready and how they are prepared is an open question. That's all I'm saying. And now there are some other things that we can say about this novelty of the law. The law is in fact in line with the European Union Directive, which follows the principle of free movement of labour within the European Union. In the early stages of the preparation of the law, the Republic of Slovenia challenged him for possible unfair competition, which could arise if someone from the European Union, the Swiss Confederation or the European Treaty signatories, appeared in Slovenia with a specific profession and a substantial lower salary, thus representing competition for Slovenian workers. For Slovenia, it is considered that regulated professions are large, in fact almost all professions are regulated, while there are few in the European countries. For example, I should mention five regulated professions in Denmark. This Directive is intended to achieve greater deregulation of professions in the light of the recommendations of the European Union. Restricting access to professions and activities by formalising the titles of professional and professional education is therefore one of the reasons that prevent greater mobility and flexibility of the labour force. Of course, there is also a security guard that we welcome, namely that those who wish to provide the service must also meet the requirement for the provision of services in the Member State of establishment for at least two years in the last ten years continuously or jointly. This, therefore, prevented anyone from engaging in a certain activity just in order to apply for a particular invitation to tender. 5a, too. The article on the use of the Slovenian language is a special consideration because it speaks only of language knowledge for those dealing with the parties, but is not a certain degree of knowledge. So these are the things you should be aware of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will vote on the draft law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.05. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - This is a second-level proposal for a regulation on amendments to the bond and real-equity laws in the aviation sector. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to Dr. Peter Verlich, Secretary of State. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared a proposal for amendments to the Law on aviation bond and real-law relations since its adoption in 2000, and to this day the Convention on the Unification of Certain Rules for International Air Transport, the so-called Montreal Convention, as well as the three Regulations of the European Union regulating: the liability of air carriers to passengers and their luggage, common rules on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of refusal of boarding, cancellation or major flight delays, and insurance for air carriers and operators. As a result, individual parts of the current law have no longer been applied and implementation of the European Union regulations has also been hampered. This situation has led to the fact that air carriers and passengers often did not know which regulation to comply with. For this reason, the 2000 law had to be brought into line with the rules of the European Union. We propose that the National Assembly adopt a complementary bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. I ask Mr Milan Petk, a member of the Committee, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u20	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! I represent Mr. Juban, who is away. This is a report presented by the Secretary of State. This content was discussed by the Committee at its 22nd meeting, on 13.9.2007, which was a second consideration. In fact, the Government proposed that the law should be examined following a reduced procedure, and the College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 103rd regular meeting, on 6.7., that such a procedure should also be used in the examination of this law. Representatives of the proposed law and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly participated in the meeting, i.e. the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly gave a written opinion to the law on 30.8. In the debate on the individual articles of the bill, the members of the committee felt it would be appropriate to ensure accessibility and insight into the European Union acts taken into account by each bill, and I quote: "This would make the law more user-friendly and understandable to all users, in particular the lay public." Representatives of the Ministry of Transport have proposed a possible solution in the context of the electronic presentation of Slovenian legislation, and I would like to point out that this way is being used more and more frequently by other members of the European Union. Following the discussion, the Transport Committee of the National Assembly adopted amendments following the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which were amendments to Articles 1, 3, 4, 5, 10, 11, 22, 26, 37, 38 and 90 of the Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! The Aviation Bond and Real-Legal Relations Act, adopted in 2000, is one of the basic aviation laws governing, under transport law, property and legal matters such as: air transport of passengers, luggage and cargo and liability of air carriers in the event of damage to passengers, luggage and cargo, special services from aircraft, rental of aircraft, liability for damage caused by aircraft on the ground, air insurance, real rights on board, enforcement and insurance on aircraft and conflict rules. The amendments to the law are aligned with the legal order of the European Union, as several European Union regulations have been adopted since 2000. In compliance with the three Regulations of the European Union, a national regime which does not comply with these Regulations of the European Union shall cease to apply. The individual provisions of the current law shall be brought into line with the arrangements laid down in the Regulations of the European Union and shall cease to apply as Regulations of the European Union are already in force and directly applicable. The proposed regulation will remove confusion between users of the law, who often did not know whether national rules or direct regulation of the European Union were applicable in this area. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u24	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State with Fellow Members, Honourable Member and Members of Parliament! The Law on Obligations and Real-Legal Relations in Aviation from the beginning of 2000 is one of the basic laws in this area which deals with certain legal issues of life. Since the adoption of the Act in 2002, Slovenia has also ratified the Montreal Convention on the Unification of Certain Rules for International Air Transport. With regard to Slovenia's entry into the European Union, it is clear that our country will have to adapt its European legislation. Today's bill is just one of those laws that need updating in the new European spirit. Amendments are certainly important for the full adaptation and compliance of our legislation with European Union legislation. The aviation sector is now up-to-date and interesting not only for those who are professionally engaged in or regularly use these services, in particular from which flight is thus accessible to everyone, it is an area of concern to every citizen. According to data from the Ljubljana Aerodrome at the end of August, 20% more passengers were provided in the first six months of 2007 compared to the same period last year. It took off and landed 18% more planes. And of all the new ones, and if you want cheaper carriers, the share of passengers will only increase. This also includes the interest of all passengers and all participants in the aviation market in their rights. As with many other things, consumers still lack knowledge of their rights in this regard, and not only do they not know their responsibilities. The proposal for a law focuses primarily on certain Council Regulations governing the liability of air carriers in the event of accidents, on a regulation laying down common rules on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of refusal of boarding or delay of flight, which is also one of the most problematic things in practice and subject to a number of complaints from passengers and a regulation relating to insurance for air carriers and operators. With the Slovenian People's Party, we welcome the fact that all these areas would be better regulated than they have been so far. In particular, we have in mind consumers or air traffic users, since the regulations specify certain areas that are the most common stumbling block. The novelty of the Montreal Convention, which had an impact on the Council regulation and provided for an unlimited liability regime in the event of death or damage to air passengers, is particularly relevant. In particular, the problem of losing, destroying or damaging passengers’ luggage is also addressed, or the damage caused by the delay. We believe that among all the other provisions, the most important provision is the high level of passenger safety, which is not always at the highest level in practice. On the contrary, for low price carriers, aircraft delays often cause safety measures to be presented to passengers too quickly. Therefore, there is a need for a thorough legal regulation of this problem, which would also provide for high penalties in the event of infringements. For all of this, and because of our membership in the EU, certain laws must comply with European legislation and also protect the consumer, we believe that the proposal is worth supporting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Fellows, Fellow Members and Honourable Secretary of State with Fellow Members! The regulation of bond and real aviation relations is conditioned by regulation in the legal order of the European Union and by international regulation. Amendments and additions to the Law on aviation bond and real law do not lay down new administrative tasks within the framework of the State administration, nor do they change the administrative tasks laid down by the applicable rules of the European Community and do not affect the system in force. The proposal for a law does not provide for new administrative tasks within the framework of the national administration, nor does it change the administrative tasks laid down in the applicable rules of the European Union. The amendments mainly concern the protection of the rights of passengers and the liability of air carriers, as regulated by the rules of the European Community. It follows from all this that the proposed amendments will also be confirmed by the proposed amendments to the law on bond and real rights relations in aviation in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Mark Pavlich has the floor, on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all, especially to Secretary of State Dr. Verlic, Secretary of Mr. Slani and you, dear colleagues and colleagues! Today is World Maritime Day. And if we can't talk about seagoing vessels, at least we can talk about air and related legal relations. I can't believe it's been a good 8 years since I had the opportunity to lead the expert group that drafted the Law on Bonding and Real Law Relations in Aviation, which entered into force in 2000. At that time, we came from a former Yugoslav law with a similar subject to which I must say, and it was not bad, as was the experience of the Montreal Convention, which was adopted in 1999 and regulated the liability of air carriers in the event of accidents and certain European regulations and directives. But the real thing is a living organism that's constantly changing. And at this time, it has to be said, it has entered into force an extremely important, so-called revolutionary Montreal Convention of 1999. The new Regulation on the establishment of a compensation system for the refusal of passengers to board the aircraft also entered into force, in the event of cancellation of the flight and major delays. In order to properly harmonise our legislation, I warned the former Minister of Transport with the parliamentary initiative last April. Unfortunately, we had to wait almost a year and a half until the present novel. However, let me say this, and this is a good advice to the new Minister of Transport that we now have 12 open disputes or reminders from the European Commission due to the slow application of "acquis communitaire". Let me only draw attention to the current action for the slow adoption of the two railway directives. This needs to be changed, especially because of the finer image that we have to wear during our Presidency of the European Union. That's what the upcoming novel is about to do. It is, as I say, very important news, to mention only some. For the first time in the history of transport law, the Montreal Convention introduces unlimited liability for the injury and death of passengers. This means that the family who died in the accident will be able to receive not only $10,000, as is the case under the Warsaw Convention, but the actual compensation that includes mental pain, loss of profits, for example, for a traveler who spent his family, funeral expenses and could still be listed. The amendment also takes into account the new regulation’s rules in the event that a person is denied boarding a plane or that he is waiting too long for a flight, which is likely to have happened to all of us before, or even that this flight has been cancelled. Indemnities range from €250 to €600, and other assistance is provided to passengers, in the form of, for example, a warm meal, an alternative year and something else. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will have no problem supporting this novelty. But we have four suggestions. First of all, it's a nomotechnic nature, and I've already talked about it on the committee. Indeed, it is not the most fortunate and also friendly to passengers, consumers, if, for example, the regulation merely refers to an act of the European Union or an international sphere. For example, Article 11 provides that passengers are entitled to compensation in the event of cancellation of the flight in accordance with Regulation 261/2004/EC. Believe me, most lawyers don't know what this regulation stipulates. That is why my proposal was, and this is nowhere to be prohibited, for example, from simply attaching to our regulations as an annex to the Slovenian text of such a regulation. The second suggestion is to take care of the establishment as soon as possible of an independent body dealing with complaints from passengers. Thirdly, our national carrier, in particular, familiarises passengers with the rights deriving from this novel. And the final suggestion is that the Ministry, for the first time, analyses to what extent Slovenia really respects the existing and ratified international agreements, and for the second time that it also ratifys those not yet in force, thus, of course, could symbolically demonstrate that the unification of the law and that this law enters into force as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will vote on the draft law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. There's no government representative at the moment. They're coming. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Please, Dr. Dusan Lesjak, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u30	Nicely greeted. Respected and esteemed! This is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence. This is a recognition law adopted in July 2003 and covers the area of highest national awards or awards for performance in the field of quality of operations, as a result of knowledge and innovation and continuous improvements. It follows the European Quality Award and European criteria. The review of the law is primarily about changes that do not interfere with the substantive and systemic arrangements of the system of recognitions of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence. The main objective is to comply with the applicable legislation in the work relating to membership in the Recognition Committee. It is the representation of the public sector and the chambers of commerce and the keeping of records and the protection of personal data, assessors and notifiers. In doing so, the solutions presented fully follow the fundamental purpose of recognition and the development strategies of Slovenia in terms of promoting legal and natural persons in the private and public sectors and the planned improvement of the quality of business and the systematic introduction of the European model of excellence. Amendments and amendments to the law refer to the following in their solutions. The current law is complemented by categorisation of the award of recognition, where two basic categories of contestants are defined: the private and the public sector. Earlier this has been regulated in sub-legislative acts, the categories will be set out in more detail each year by the Committee on Recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for Business Excellence in the provisions of the invitation to tender. The law in force is amended by the provisions of the Chamber of Commerce Act by ensuring that the Chamber of Commerce is represented by a representative representative of the Chamber of Commerce, the President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, and is now the only Chamber of Commerce in Slovenia. The third amendment, the law in force, is complemented by the representation of the public sector in the members of the Recognition Committee by the appointment of the Minister responsible for public administration, so far there has been no representative of the public sector by the position of the committee. And the fourth amendment, the law in force, is in line with the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act and thus regulates the protection of personal data and the way in which records are kept within the professional and administrative tasks of managing the procedure for the recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence. This was previously regulated in the sub-legislative acts. The timely adoption of the law will enable the implementation of the evaluation procedure after the new zekoan in January 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. I ask Vice-President Evo Irgle to present the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At its 19th meeting, the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for Business Excellence, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption after a reduced procedure. Representatives of the proposed law, the Legislative and Legal Service, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for metrology participated in the work of the Committee. It follows from the proposed law that the amendment of the current law is mainly a matter of minor editorial changes, which do not interfere with the substantive and systemic arrangements of the system of recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence. The main objective is to comply with existing legislation in the work relating to membership in the Recognition Committee and to keep records and protect the personal data of assessors and notifiers. In doing so, as the proposaler points out, the solutions presented fully follow the fundamental purpose of recognition and the development strategies of Slovenia in terms of encouraging legal and natural persons in the private and public sectors to plan to improve their quality of business and to systematically introduce a European model of excellence. During the second hearing, the representative of the proposer did not provide a supplementary explanation of the draft law, nor did the members of the Committee have any comments on the proposed text. On the basis of Article 130(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 3, 5 and 6 of the draft law by the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Drofenik has the floor, on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u34	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! I support the adoption by the Slovenian People's Party of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for Business Excellence. This is mainly because it is minor editorial corrections that do not actually affect the content itself. The amendment adapts the law to the applicable legislation in the work relating to membership in the Recognition Committee, as well as to the parts relating to the maintenance of individual records and the protection of personal data, both of the assessors and of the notifiers. The Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u36	Your Honors are here! We support the law in the Slovenian National Party. However, I would like to point out that the reason why we support the law is not because it is a matter of minor changes. We'd like even bigger changes. If we look at the title of the law itself, i.e. the Law on Recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for Business Excellence and look at the explanation of the law which says that such recognitions are evaluated or better reflected, stimulate and lead to greater competitiveness of products and services or the performance of the organisation, then it is the fact that at this institute of such recognition or awards the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, finally, the National Assembly should work harder, because this is one of those instruments through which we can achieve this goal, which we are all committed to together. So, greater and more successful, stronger competitiveness, both in the area of natural and legal persons. Of course, I cannot say from this title that we are disappointed, but in any way surprised at the fact that there was no discussion in connection with this law. We therefore estimate that such elements within our society are also encouraged through a way of rewards or recognitions. We believe that not everything is not in the directives, we believe that not everything is in the legislative orders, but that the individual element in the economic market is also promoted through such a form. As part of his explanation, the Ministry's representative, the Secretary of State, gave those who, according to a government assessment of the most important changes accompanying the amendment of the law. According to our assessment, however, a more important amendment to the law, which should be more extensive, which could actually have financial implications, would not be disputed if such a prize would remain alpha and omega in this area. The fact is, in the framework of the Group of Members, we have tried to have interviews with the entities eligible for such prizes. Unfortunately, however, there is the fact that such entities do not even know this award, despite the fact that we are talking about the recognition of the Republic of Slovenia, and that is a shame. But no matter what I say, we will support this change in the National Party and the amendment of the law. We would expect, however, that this will be the way in which a discussion will take place within the framework of the parent working body on how to further strengthen this type of element. But as I said, we are assessing in the parliamentary group that they are so important, and despite the fact that the introduction of the law already states that it is not based on a directive of the European Union, but that there are also important changes under Article 1 where, I quote, "this law thus equates legal and natural persons, in so far as they act as an equal entity in the free competition market," as well as that the law tries to follow the confusion in the basic, then complementary and present law. Therefore, for the first time, criteria were set which were too detailed for the specification of the criteria, and for the second time, when individual criteria had to be deleted in 2003. We also assess that what the proposer has mentioned, namely, changes in the organisation of the Committee, is at least an important element in the context of the amendments to this Act. But, as it is said and meant, these are also ways in which the government, not least the National Assembly, is underworked. Such instruments to promote competitiveness through which policy should not have an impact should be used or built more frequently within our country on their content, and especially on the content that individual entities, beneficiaries, candidates should consider this not only through recognition but through some kind of competition and honour for their, at least work or achievements in the field of competitiveness. As I said, in the SNS Group, we support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Willi Rezman will take the position of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the process so far, the proposal for a law has received the general support of no important and serious facilities, and this is and will be done by the DeSUS Group. But she'll take this opportunity to point out another weakness that I'm going to try to elaborate a little bit later. It is more or less clear to all that by offering and knowing the manufacture of products, goods and services, we have not yet achieved what we should, but that we must strive for excellence in this regard, even because of the situation in which we are alone, and because of our comparative relations with other countries, whether it is historical comparisons or whether it is comparisons with or to size, power and other decency. In short, there is no other solution for our country and our society than to seek a path to sophistication, to the best possible results, to the greatest possible efficiency, to competitiveness and so on, and it is right that we can also reward it. It is true that we also know how to extend this, i.e. to that sector, to the public sector, and therefore we support that those who are members of the Committee for the Allocation of these Recognitiones, including those sectors covered by the public, non-minor sector. We believe it is right that in this promotion of optimal models that can deliver the best results, we find a solution for faster development, we believe that it is right to promote competitiveness in this way, to encourage as much motivation as possible for the path to excellence through this award, and we are convinced that such long-term competition can also produce the right fruits. In fact, if we insist on doing so, there will be a developmental spiral that promises to rise to a higher level of our daily and other lives. While the effects are not always direct, immediately and directly in financial form, the effects can be very often indirect, but insistence on this path certainly produces positive effects. We have a thought that I have announced, which is not just about this bill, but it is in this sense that we are promoting excellence with this law, with many resolutions and reform programmes we are also promoting excellence, we are talking about a knowledge society, we are talking about how this can be our comparative advantage, but there is a whole range of legislative proposals, and some have already been adopted, but they have the opposite intention. Intention to desauvrate educational programmes to allow entry into different professions without appropriate qualifications; and let me just remind myself of a few such laws. This is the hospitality law, this is the proposal for a trade activity law, this is the trade law that we have in the process. Something similar is envisaged even by the Law on Public Administration to mention this, as we also extend recognition of excellence to this area. In short, it is a form of discrimination, it seems to us that needs to be pointed out, because it is certainly wiser to encourage and insist on the path that talks about systemicism, which tells us how to build appropriate support institutions, including schools, school programmes, qualifications, certificates and so on, and not just bet on entrepreneurship, which is naturally short-term. There is no need for education and recognition in writing for success in entrepreneurship, and another criterion, another one, can also be appropriate for success in entrepreneurship. But this current market performance can be short-term, building quality education systems and recognising the relevant qualifications is a more reliable and, in the long term, certainly a better path. Well, despite these concerns, we will support this law that advocates excellence.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Possonec, please, on behalf of the national communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! The bill mainly deals with minor editorial changes that do not interfere with the substantive and systemic arrangements of the system of recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence. The main objective of the amendments is to harmonise with the applicable legislation in the work relating to the membership of the Committee on Recognition, Representation of the Public Sector and Economic Chambers, and to keep records and protect personal data in the field of applicants. Of course, the law must be upheld.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Bogomir Zammernik has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When I listened to the explanations of the predecessors, not including Mrs Possonec, I had a feeling for a moment that we had come a little off the agenda. However, I welcome the initiatives and can also support them to a certain extent, which have been given by the speakers. I am surprised, however, that on the committee where this town is, and as far as I am aware, this committee, which is the home committee for the drafting of this law, is being attended by all the parliamentary groups, so that, once again, such proposals have not been made there. And as I can see, the representatives of the Government are carefully recording here, and I hope and I am sure that in the future these initiatives will also be taken into account and accepted in some way. As has already been said today, I think it is necessary to reiterate that changes are about to be made to comply with other laws that summarize and process amendments to the Act on Recognition of Business Excellence. In particular, changes in the area of the protection of personal data, the equal representation of chambers of commerce and the representation of the public sector within the framework of the Committee on Business Excellence. We have amended the Law on Economic Chambers, so of course it is imperative that this be settled now. In view of the fact that assessors collect personal data, special attention should be paid to this area in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act, and therefore these changes are also coordinated with the Information Officer. As a result of these statements in our Group of Members, we estimate that changes are necessary and necessary, good and that is why we will support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pečan has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good day and a nice greeting to all present in the hall! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we decided to support the proposal when considering the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence, as it generally represents an improvement of the law in force, but it is more decisive to include organisations and individuals from the public sector in the selection of potential recipients of recognition. Of course, it was also necessary to harmonise the Act on the Recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for Business Excellence with the amendments to the Economic Chamber Act, as well as the Law on the Protection of Personal Data relating to the rules on record-keeping. However, we cannot help but be re-examined by the amendments, or only three, but by a very short law, which was necessary only because of the lack of legislation on the part of the proposer. The fact is that the Government's legislative and legal service should take care of the removal of nomological errors before the text of the bill arrives in the National Assembly, and the notaristic fact is that, in particular, on the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, we have to adopt too often amendments that eliminate the surface texts of individual articles in laws. If we are a bit maliced, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology will never receive recognition of the Republic of Slovenia as a business excellence. As we say, our parliamentary group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Janez Petty Officer on behalf of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u46	Nice greeting to the President, of course also to the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Promoting business excellence is a key objective of the conduct of all modern countries, as it also means an element of the performance of not only operators, but also the exercise of a good position of individual countries. The legislative text or amendments, of course, aim at those things that are in fact the consequence of amending other regulations such as chambers and regulating the protection of personal data. Previously, it was said that on this occasion, when we had a debate on these changes, we would have touched on something else, which would have an impact, which would have contributed to improving the business excellence of entities private to the public in the Republic of Slovenia. The law as such may be upgraded, but in the New Slovenia Group we think that something is a law that can contribute by motivating it by giving recognition, while the other is, of course, the whole economic framework, the social framework in the Republic of Slovenia, which will allow it to be born to improve business excellence. Business excellence will also result in business results and business performance. This is only possible when we have the right situation. Where there is payment discipline, where there is competition, where there are no silent monopolies, where there are no cartel arrangements, because such phenomena as I have now listed prevent business excellence from being enforced and also result in a business outcome. What will help us, then, is only certificates if there is no movement in this content in the conduct of the entities. In such a way, those who have achieved business excellence will be rewarded. The prize or this business excellence under this law is somehow measured by the system of excellence they have in other European countries. The law is properly prepared and will also be supported in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will vote on the draft law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Period of the day - this is on the evocative proposal for a resolution on the National Programme of Higher Education of the Republic of Slovenia. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motion for a resolution. Please, Dr. Dusan Lesjak, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Hello again! The adoption of the national programme shall be governed by the Higher Education Act in Chapters 4 - 43 to 46. The Section for the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme between 2007 and 2010 has drawn up, in accordance with that Act, a Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education in July 2005. In its substantive context, it also takes into account the strategic documents on the development guidelines of Slovenia, such as: the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia, the Reform Programme for the Implementation of the Lisbon Strategy in Slovenia, the Framework for Economic and Social Reforms, for the Improvement of Prosperity in Slovenia, the Centre of the Student Organisation for the Debate on Economic and Social Reform Proposals, and the European Union Commission document on the Implementation of the Agenda for the Modernisation of Universities: Education, Research and Innovation. The main objectives to be achieved by 2010 are: to create a single higher education and research space, to promote knowledge sharing in the triangular higher education sector - science - the economy, to balance youth enrolment and to increase the proportion of adults in all forms of lifelong learning, to improve the situation for studies and to increase the number of graduates, to promote the internationalisation of higher education, to introduce different criteria for research achievements in different areas and to open up the habitat and to increase the flow of experts between higher education and research institutions and the economy. So much for the content of the resolution itself, but for some time I would like to briefly present once again the progress of the resolution on the national programme for the development of higher education. The Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology began to prepare the content of the resolution in February 2006, when Minister Jure Zupan appointed the working group to prepare the motion for a resolution, appointed Dr. Janez Možino, then Secretary of State, in the working group, Dr. Alojz Kralj as the representative of the SAZU, Dr. Tamara Lah as the representative of KORIS, Dr. Ivan Svetlik, representative of the University of Ljubljana, Dr. Andrey Brodnik, representative of the University of Primorske, Dr. Danilo Zavortanik, representative of the then Politechnik, now of the University of Novi Gorica, Dr. Matej Penca representative of the Higher Education Council, Dr. Tomaž Writeski as the representative of the Council for Science and Technology and Mr. Bojan Kuresh as the representative of the University Organization of Slovenia. The working group met for the first time on 2 March 2006 and then met four more times. It concluded its work on 12 May 2006, when the document was submitted to the Ministry of Public Affairs. The public hearing was concluded at the end of May 2006, and a number of proposals and comments were submitted both by the universities and by the SWIZ union during the public hearing. The comments were taken into account by the Ministry and included in the resolution. On 18 October, coordination began with the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which was concluded in December 2006. In this respect, it is worth noting that it is an explicit and clear position of the Student Organisation that all texts relating to such or other considerations on tuitions should be removed from the text of the resolution itself, which has also been done. The date of 21 December 2006 should be highlighted when the text of the resolution was considered and also adopted by the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on student issues. At the same time as the document was considered and adopted by the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on student issues, coordination with the Rector's Conference was also carried out, with the aim of stressing that the representatives of the Student Organisation of Slovenia had been involved at all times and that any proposed amendment and addition proposed by the Rectors had been agreed upon by the students. To highlight three key issues that have been identified and coordinated with the Rectors or the Rectors Conference: [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] define the habilitation conditions and the relevant texts relating to habilitation. [[...]] After a considerable period of time, the text was devoted and improved and supplemented in accordance with their comments on the parts of the text relating to the financing of higher education, and in particular to their wish, additional and additional conditions for the establishment of new [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Universities. [[...]] The text of the resolution was adopted by the Rector's Conference on 15 January 2007. Thus, at the end of January, such a text of the resolution was also made known to SWITZ and was invited to make comments. The proposed deadline for the submission of comments was one-week, but the possibility of its renewal was also indicated. I don't think that's what he's responding to. We met in March. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State. Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u50	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. I give the floor to Vice-President Eva Irgle to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u52	Your Honor! Let me briefly present the summary of the report of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development to the Proposal for a Resolution on the National Programme of Higher Education of the Republic of Slovenia 2007-2010. The Committee considered the resolution at its 18th meeting, on 1, 2, 3 and 4 below this 18th session. The Committee has devoted 29 hours to the consideration of the resolution, which certainly shows that the members of the Committee have taken the necessary and responsible steps to prepare a document that will best reflect the interests of both the coalition and the opposition or the professional public. In addition to the text of the motion for a resolution, the Committee was informed of the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which had no comments on the proposed material from the perspective of its tasks, the opinion of the Commission on the social activities of the State Council and the views of the higher education and research partners. The Committee received 63 amendments from the LDS MPs, the Group of Unaffiliated Members, the SD MPs and the unaffiliated Member. Of those, 17 amendments were adopted by the Committee, the other Committee did not accept either that it did not agree with their content or that the Committee had adopted its amendments or were irrelevant because they were not prepared in accordance with the business arrangements. In addition, extremely many proposals were submitted for amendments to the committee prepared by: University of Maribor, Engineering Academy of Slovenia, University of Primorska and other representatives of the professional public. In relation to these proposals, it should be noted that these institutions have proposed, after the content of most of the amendments to the Committee, identical proposals and many of them could not be identified by the Committee because they were not submitted in accordance with the business arrangements. Thus, the committee in this set of amendments adopted 36 amendments to the Committee. The Joint Committee therefore adopted 53 amendments to the motion for a resolution on higher education. Representatives of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology also participated in all meetings of the Committee. Dr Jure Zupan, Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, expressed the conviction at the Committee's meeting that, I can say, the majority of the members of the Committee also agreed. That the motion for a resolution, including amendments, would be a suitable document for launching a broad debate on all aspects of the Single Law on Higher Education and Research, which would be prepared on the basis of the resolution adopted. The Ministry, together with all partners, has already set up a commission to discuss all the main problems of higher education, so that an appropriate law on higher education and development and research activities can be drawn up jointly. In the debate, Committee members expressed a number of opinions on the proposed content of the resolution. Some members of the Committee objected to the adoption of a resolution with an explanation which could be summed up in the general conclusion that it was not sufficiently harmonised, that important parts of the comments by the university public were not taken into account, that the autonomy of universities should be undermined and so on, and suggested that the motion for a resolution should be withdrawn and drafted with a better or more appropriate text. On the contrary, most members of the Committee felt that the resolution should be adopted as soon as possible and on this basis should be initiated by drafting a law governing higher education and scientific research activities, because time is very important if we are to move forward with developed countries in this area. This also expresses the belief that the partners in this process do not have a unified view of all issues, which is understandable, as everyone probably also has his own interests. The Committee thus concluded its consideration of this document, which was considered by most members of the Committee, following a number of further meetings where different, different and different opinions could have been heard, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the inclusion of adopted amendments is an appropriate basis for the future development of higher education and scientific research activities in our country. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u53	Thank you very much. It is a great honour and pleasure to welcome in our midst the delegation of the Canadian Parliament, which is currently on a working visit to Slovenia and chaired by the President of the Canadian-Europe Parliamentary Association, Senator Lorna Milne. Dear guests, I would like to have a successful conversation and a pleasant stay in our country. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] Let's get back to work. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views on the motion for a resolution. Mr Pavel Gantar has the floor on behalf of the Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear guests, ladies and gentlemen of the future Minister, distinguished Mr Secretary of State and, of course, also the esteemed Vice-President of the Committee on Higher Education and Science. When I listened - that's what I have to say - to her report, I thought we were sitting on different committees. However, with today's consideration of the resolution in the National Assembly, a single-phase process ends in a series of farstic and painful political debate on Slovenia's crucial issue: what should be the development of higher education in the medium term? If this debate, after the adoption of the resolution, does not show any doubt, is to be concluded for the time being and today, it is also necessary to know that the debate and efforts for the autonomy of higher education, the effort for higher education, which will be open, which will link in the global situation, which, by the way, will be a popular word, be free and creative and, of course, which will mean the production of knowledge and knowledge, of which not so much for the state, the state is largely based on force, but of which it is crucial for the lives of all citizens and citizens associated with our society. And efforts will be made to ensure that higher education and research activities are as small a range as possible to promote political and clientistic interests in such an important area as higher education. We regret that the current Government and the former Minister have missed the opportunity to open up this space with a short, transparent, effective resolution that highlights the main orientations and to mobilise the interested public to achieve the goals they would set together. Also today's presentation by the Secretary of State - I must refer to this - showed, I would say, a non-selfish attitude to the matter. We could hear how the partners in the space were, and the students and teachers, in line with the ministry, although they themselves claim, swear and say that they were not coordinated on critical issues, and this is still happening. We all refer, when we talk about these matters, to resolutions in the European Union or the wider space. We mention all the Central European and Mediterranean cities from Lisbon, Barcelona, etc. And you are talking about the Lisbon Strategy: if this resolution comes true - and I sincerely hope that it will only be adopted, but not realized - the Lisbon Strategy will actually turn into a Lisbon tragedy for Slovenian higher education. Instead of forming a consensus on such an important issue as the development of higher education, we today, as a result of this resolution, have to deal with the biggest splinter and splinter between politics on the one hand and higher education on the other, and especially between the ruling policy and higher education partners, which does not contribute to the creative and good atmosphere of such discussions. To do this by trying to significantly reduce and interfere with the autonomy of higher education - we will say something later - in order to create uncertainty about the development of existing higher education institutions and to create conditions for the development of private higher schools, which, in the absence of an independent evaluation institution, can serve as a primary source of money and not so much as a source of new knowledge. It is completely incomprehensible for me and our Group of Members how the Government and its Minister can insist on disregarding, so to speak, all the basic proposals made by the higher education partners. I must say that cooperation on the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Research has actually been very interesting; that the discussions have been long and that all these higher education partners, including members of the Committee, have really discussed the individual aspects of the resolution, proposed changes that were a lively one, could also say that, with feelings and ideas, we do not sometimes find it funny and so forth, but that this is not noticed in this document in a little and not in the simplest way. It is therefore incomprehensible that, after the Minister had to leave, even because of this, the Government did not withdraw the resolution and did not allow the new future minister to start a new course. In this way, we will all together, even though with her voluntary consent, we must say so, with an inheritance that will make her work very difficult. In the long debates on the Committee, one fact became clear to us that the secret of this resolution lies not only in the text of the resolution itself, whatever it is, but also in the draft law, which they call "not." A law that does not exist, at the same time, has been sent to debate certain circles at and outside the university. Some have declared this law, in conjunction with the resolution, a masterpiece of conservative political views on higher education and science. I don't agree with that. There is nothing conservative about this law, it is not conservative in this resolution. This resolution and the law are revolutionary documents and the resolution of this revolutionary coup d'état in higher schools and universities paves the way. It is clear, therefore, that the higher education partners who were with the Government on their way to consensus in certain areas have withdrawn from this fact because they have found where this is going. Of course, as has been pointed out on the parental committee, it is not always possible to expect that every text of this type, such as the resolution, will be fully coordinated and to them. Of course, that is not necessary. After all, certain differences in the development of higher education exist among the higher education partners themselves, that we do not speak, of course, that they also exist in society, in the economy and ultimately in politics. We do not need to agree on all things, but it is necessary and important that we agree on some key issues, such as that the functioning of higher education institutions is for public benefit and knowledge - although individual goods are for each individual and owned by each individual - that this knowledge is publically good from the point of view of society. How do we define the relationship between public and private in higher education? How do we value and understand the fact that today she is studying over 60% of the generation? How can we adapt to this fact? How can we ensure that the study’s massiveness does not diminish its quality? What should be the method of financing and how to ensure equal entry conditions, regardless of social differences and differences in accessibility? This is particularly important for societies and countries that have a small number of people who cannot afford to lose their talent, and every talent must find its way to school so that it can also realize these talents. And what does the autonomy of higher education mean? If we could agree on these key issues, we could also differ in many other matters, but these opportunities were not given to us by the current Government and the former minister. First of all, let me draw attention to the problem of autonomy. The resolution reduces the problem of autonomy only to the freedom of scientific creation. The conditions and criteria of autonomy, such as, say, human resources autonomy, which is reflected in the failure of government or para-government institutions to engage in rehabilitation procedures, employment, are completely ignored. A typical example is a parallel habitat procedure carried out outside the university framework, which is a shortcut to certain names of certain people, which is very bad. Another aspect of autonomy, which is neglected, is financial autonomy, software autonomy, which is reflected in bureaucratic requirements that any change in flexible programmes must be reported and so on. And the autonomy of higher education institutions. We will not be able to ensure the responsible conduct of universities and universities if we do not have this autonomy. We will not be able to ensure that, within this autonomy of higher schools and universities, they compete in scientific excellence, in the quality of professors, in exchange of professors, in that some will obtain better, other worse students and students and so on. In the absence of this autonomy, there is also no necessary and necessary distinction between higher education institutions themselves. Why so pointless goals - 7 to 10 universities? Who says that? Who can plan the future with such a one? Maybe it'll take more, maybe less. What are you talking about, why are you setting such goals? And do you have names and surnames for these other universities and universities? I mean, this is at odds with any methodology, with any rational and normal approach to this matter. Whether we have a document today, these days that could be different or better - we even have it. Today, we or you will accept this, but in society, at least three documents are circulating in civil society, which are equal, not as good - significantly better than what you will accept today. Not to mention first the May 2007 declaration of higher education research partners. The objectives are better defined than any other document presented by the Government. We have a project presented by Dr. Glavic and finally an alternative program that was created at the university. All of this is better, and all of this was prepared for no money, if I may say so and you accept and will accept this document, which is inexplicable, which has one goal: to introduce a new form with the Higher Education Act and research activities, I would say revolution into this space. This resolution therefore effectively denies the partnership between higher education and research and thus the democratic and public process for the participation of higher education partners in the formulation of key decisions on the future of higher education and research. It vaguely defines the relationship between higher education and research activities as public good and public responsibility in a plausible way. It does not guarantee, reduces the autonomy of universities, research organisations and student organisation. Therefore, as you have already found, we cannot really support these resolutions in the Group of Non-Aligned Members; and more than that, we do not intend to participate and participate in its adoption, and therefore, on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I declare obstruction in the debate and in the vote on the resolution immediately after the presentation of the views of the groups of Members has been completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u56	Thank you so much again for saying that! Dear colleagues and colleagues, as well as the distinguished Secretary of State at the Ministry of Higher Education. I will repeat the sentence that I said yesterday, when we also discussed changes in school legislation: school reform is not good to work quickly, on a chorus, especially when we have a three-partite coordination in Slovenia or until this government. Stabs in the eyes, real stings, not only in this resolution on higher education, but also in the eyes of other changes in laws, disagreements between the social partners or the professional public and trade unions, or better said disregard for the other or third partner. Former Higher Education Minister Zupan vehemently argued that the text of the resolution was in line with all higher education partners. I had several options - and also in reviewing the documentation when I was preparing for this agenda item - I had before me the opinion of the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor, the University of Primorske, the Student Organisation of Slovenia - I can even list longer. I also had before me the opinion of the Council of State and for this area of the competent Swiss Union. However, the common position of all those mentioned is that the resolution, for the first time, is not harmonised; secondly, that the resolution is weak, in the long term harmful and should therefore be replaced by a new text. The withdrawal of the contested resolution, which was also the basis for an even more controversial and fully politicised common law on higher education, was also required by opposition Members and Members. On the committee, we have considered over 250 amendments in which they have been taken into account, I will say, professional arguments in the amendments themselves, not political, not ideological, but we have prepared them in cooperation with the profession. But we do have a resolution on our hands today. I wonder why such a rush. Is it possible that, in the background, there is also a desire for rapid habilitation of politically compatible individuals who will be able to establish their high-income higher education institutions without hindrance? Yeah. We have heard and can also read that the appointment of lecturers by ministers or ministers or future ministers is an important factor in this area. If I go back to the comments and the facts. The State Council did not support the proposal for a text. He suggested that, in view of the great opposition of all those partners to which the resolution relates, I would say that, even on the basis of the discussions, this act should be re-prepared. The enforcement of the proposed solutions is inadequate, it is bad. That is also why the Council of State prepared its motion for a resolution. The resolution is too loose, it can be interpreted in many ways. We have seen how it can be interpreted, not least we have had the opportunity to look into that common contentious proposal of the law. All universities, students, trade unions and researchers drew attention to the Ministry's play and their unfair play around the common law, which has the basis, as has already been said, in this resolution. Article 43 of the Higher Education Act, which requires that the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme contain a definition of what public service is. The starting points and analyses, which are the basis for the resolution and are also included in the text, are flawed, the data are selected selectively and are partly misleading. Some suggestions are unrealistic, contradictory, or even incorrect. It should be thoroughly complemented and improved. The content of the resolution makes it clear that there will be more administrative interventions by the Ministry in the future than in the past. This means that there will be even less autonomy. This is the part that the future minister should now hear, because I have a feeling that she has no idea what the autonomy of higher education institutions in our country should look like. You know, less autonomy means less responsibility for universities as well. I estimate this could be very bad. The resolution in this form means a direct attack, as has already been said, on the autonomy of universities. The number of universities envisaged in Slovenia is too large. The practice of the European Union shows that universities are merging rather than establishing new ones. And here I am worried about another breakthrough in the thinking of this government: in the field of primary education we rationalized, combined - which is bad. At the university level, where it would make sense to unite, let's crush it. The establishment of private universities in the Slovenian space is considered unprofessional and lowers our points in the international university space. Some of you like to refer to the practice of the European Union. There is also a new funding ratio for research activities within universities. The resolution does not define what the university is. There are no good ways to better connect the research sphere and integrate it into the university itself. On the other hand, it is necessary to first determine how many students we need for individual study programmes, and only on this basis can we adopt a strategy to create Slovenian university space. The resolution should, in the opinion of experts, be shorter and thus the basis for the law and a series of sub-legislative acts regulating the area of higher education and scientific space. The issue of the process of drafting new higher education legislation has been particularly highlighted in the home working body. Higher education as a public good, access to non-school higher education, adequate guarantees of the right to complete studies, the autonomy of organising universities and student organisations, equivalent roles of higher education partners and the field of higher education degrees. The Ministry of Resolutions has not prepared integrated and in-depth expert analyses, long-term projections and strategies necessary to regulate this area. The proposed resolution does not outline the proper implementation of the Bologna reform. The Bologna process has only a foreign role to play in this document, as well as a partnership, a co-formed and social dimension of higher education, which is actually a priority in the European higher education area. Once again, higher education European space! Yesterday, some of you were very fond of referring to the EU. Resolutions of national importance must, or should, express the consensus of all partners at the same time. Such important issues must be decided, I stress, by the strength of professionally justified arguments and not by the power of political non-professional power. The resolution's announcement that higher education teachers should be employed primarily for a certain period of time is contrary to the current and future labour law, which has been harmonised between the social partners and the government. On the basis of the collective wage agreement in the public sector, the salaries of higher education teachers are expected to increase slightly. However, in the negotiations on a collective agreement that has been ongoing for a long time, it was not observed that the higher education and research sector would attempt anywhere to influence the provisions of the new pay system in order to actually enforce the positions contained in the motion for a resolution. The resolution should indicate where its own borders are, which areas it may interfere with and how. It should identify what measures are direct intervention and what measures may constitute indirect intervention in this activity. Direct intervention is provided through the so-called public interest. The analysis of the current situation is not made in a methodologically clear and convincing manner. Important aspects of the motion for a resolution are simply omitted. Representatives of social subsystems have been under-represented in preparation. In addition to the economy, the subsystems of this company should say what they expect from higher education and research. Health, education, social and so on, these are the partners with whom we need to negotiate what is needed in our space and how we intend to achieve this. On one of the key issues, this is the definition and definition of higher education and scientific research work as public goods, there are still many different views and still, I say, there is no consensus on this issue. There is no agreement on what we need and what we want in our society. An important question is whether there is actually a need to increase the number of universities in the Republic of Slovenia and whether such policies will contribute to improving the quality of higher education. In short, I didn’t want to expose political dilemmas on purpose, but I focused only on the opinion or the discipline of the profession. All universities, existing universities, as well as those partners operating in the field. The document is, I'm afraid, weak. And just to conclude: you know, even in this document or in this reform, the person or the person who will be signed in the background is also under the reform of primary education. As we say, I am convinced that I have made sufficient strong arguments which speak of the fact that we will not support such a document in the Slovenian National Party with such ignorance, such a haste of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u58	Thank you very much. In fact, we are in some awkward, unpleasant situation when we have to find that the stakes were very large and the proceeds were nothing. In fact, there is a discrepancy between what was invested and what we eventually received. We admit that there was a lot of work to do, a lot of words to say, a lot of time to spend. There were probably also very many not only arguments, but also those arguments that are only considered as arguments, as well as expectations, were probably, and are still very large. The quantity, as we see it, is not as much as we were and as we used to teach it to become a quality. It is very rare that a special opportunity must be, or a special circumstance, to do so, and in this case, in the event of a resolution, this situation is missing. Therefore, let me say that we think that despite much of the work being done, the result of the stings was that there was much talk and little listening and that there was some atmosphere of almost deafness on the one hand, and we could call it the atmosphere of Jacob’s insurrection, which sometimes also produces results if this insurrection is strong enough and if it persists long enough. Well, in the DeSUS Group, we did not participate very actively in this resolution. We did not support it, and after all the additional information we have heard, we have no choice but to insist on our position that we do not support or vote against the resolution. It would be difficult now to disagree that the resolution and the law, which we do not yet have in mind, are unrelated in some way. This is actually impossible, it would no longer make sense to represent this identity, because we wouldn't even need one or the other. That is why we are asked a whole series of questions, not just questions, but questions that may be edible for someone, but let me say something. The first question is: For whom is this resolution required, and is it necessary in such details as is now stated? The second question is: for whom is this resolution acceptable; is it only acceptable for part of the current, that is, the majority policy, or is it acceptable only for the interests of some known individuals? Is it really a mistake that most of those who are most concerned almost completely reject - in my mind I have higher education, science, research, students - a resolution that wants to be poisoned? Is this simply about demonstrating that politics can win over expertise? Is it that much of our intellectual at the highest level of declared science does not understand what Parliament is saying? Or is it all so interestingly colored that we no longer need understanding, simply following our interests, and things will run out as they must? To whom does it seem appropriate to bring all the high education with a burner to paradise? Why should we make people happy? But so those who were supposed to be "satisfy" - under the slogans of course - feel it; so they spoke, so they wrote, such amendments were prepared, such arguments were highlighted. We feel that if there was no resolution and there was no new proposal for a law, our university higher education sphere could still function relatively well and that there would therefore be more than enough time to reconcile interests. And also because this is also rejected in order to further coordinate and try to find something in common, the DeSUS Group cannot support this resolution. The Group will therefore reject the resolution and wonder what abilities something must have for people who are able to put almost everything on the opposite front.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u60	Thank you so much for your word and a nice hello again. Slovenia, like other EU members, has set itself the goal of becoming the most competitive, dynamic and knowledge-based economy in the world, full employment and economic and social cohesion in the EU. This is a closely linked Bologna Declaration that will link and consolidate the links between the educational and scientific sphere and the economy. At the same time, it will enable the creation of a common European higher education and research space. Higher education at the postgraduate and postgraduate levels must be quality and equally accessible to all in order to achieve effective creation and flow. The National Higher Education Programme therefore provides an analysis of the situation so far as solutions in this area are in line with our country's development strategy. For Slovenia, higher education is the most important investment in education, science, research and development in order to ensure higher economic growth and increase employment, while gradual changes in the higher education and research environment, the successful operation and establishment of new higher education and innovation centres will be possible to promote greater innovation. The related strategies are: the creation of a single higher education research space, 80 young researchers per year for the economy, the increase in the share of young people in tertiary education and adults in all forms of lifelong learning, the improvement of the conditions for study, the increase in the number of students enrolled and the opportunities for students with special needs to study, the increase in the share of higher education and research work to 5% of gross domestic product, the increase in the number of higher education institutions which will be more regionally distributed, the promotion of internationalisation and the quality of higher education, the introduction of criteria for research achievements in different fields and separately across professions, the increase in the flow of experts between higher education and research institutions and the economy, and the promotion of the development of commercially less interesting research areas and research.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Figures on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, it's a good day. I am pleased that my predecessor has outlined some of the substantive areas addressed by the resolution, the proposal for amendments or the reform of higher education. I might say to these objectives, which have now been mentioned, that the essence is that, as we say, we should open up a complex space: the economy, higher education and the research and development part of our society. This is both the first objective and, in my opinion, the one that is at least working in terms of greater innovation, transfer of knowledge into real products and services. This triangle is essential not only in our society, but also in international integration and, of course, in the international educational space. I will not repeat, with regard to the ratio of higher education institutions, the aim is to increase from truly modest, European modest, 15% to 25% and to increase the number of those who successfully complete higher education from 56%, 57% to 75%, with the same percentage of those enrolled at the start of higher education. However, it is essential that we actually reach 5% of GDP, which is intended for education and for research and development, especially in that part - the budget component should not be disputed - 1.7% and 1.3% and from other sources, and 1.3% from the budget, but mainly this second part, 2.7%, which should be obtained from the economy, if I may say so. So, non-budgetary resources. Again, a more important part for R & D and a smaller part for funding higher education. This problem-solving of the target, the increase in the number of higher education institutions, is narrowed down to the definition in a resolution where the views of the university are forgotten, and is not mentioned on purpose, then also by higher education centres and innovation centres, and the issue is raised at number 7 to 10. Then the mentioned internationalisation of higher education, the transition of teachers, higher education teachers, etc., introduce different criteria for research achievements in various fields, open up the habilitation space and start the movement of experts in this triangle of higher education institutions, research and development institutions and economies. And that goal, which I also believe is being deliberately challenged by our opinion of the SDS Group, and does not want to look at the facts of power, which is also written in the resolution itself and also in the amendments proposed, is autonomy. Nowhere in the resolution is autonomy stated and problematic, which is a established multi-century fact, a centuries-old tradition, but only to reach out to academic freedom. In the resolution, if we also accept corrections, it should be clear that autonomy is guaranteed to state universities and state-owned higher education schools. Legal personality shall also be ensured in accordance with the rules of the University and the exceptions shall be governed by the law adopted again by this National Assembly. At another point where these activities are listed, however, it is proposed that, precisely because there will be no dilemma, the issue of autonomy, that state universities should be asked what should be regulated in the Single Law on Higher Education and Research Development, the resolution will explicitly say that autonomy is guaranteed to state universities, and that legal personality should be guaranteed to universities as a rule - the university can provide for a different definition when the founder agrees. That way I don't see any dilemma here. Now, perhaps, and this must be repeated, with regard to the adoption and coordination of this famous resolution on higher education - the National Higher Education Programme. First, let us draw a parallel as to how completely non-problem and almost too formal, without specific discussions, the adoption of a resolution on the national programme of research and development activities took place. This was discussed in 2005, which is the first year of the mandate of this Government, and was adopted by the Committee. They were proposed - I think - four amendments and then - in the National Assembly. The logical continuation was then the Ministry's activity in preparing the resolution that we are considering today. In the first quarter of 2006, following the adoption of the R & D resolution, a group of experts, representatives of all actors in the field of higher education, research, education, prepared a proposal which was then subject to long-term coordination and public debate until May 2006, when this motion for a resolution was sent to the Government for a formal public debate. This then ended somehow in December 2006 and January 2007, when the rectors of all three Slovenian universities confirmed it. The last confirmation of comments and coordination was then concluded in January. Trade unions, for example, have not responded to the request for an exchange of views on such a harmonised resolution. The final coordination of the motion for a resolution was carried out within the framework of the Partnership for Development within the Coalition and also with the party of the Social Democrats, which, with the signature of its Vice-President on 29 March 2007, confirmed that the draft text of the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme 2007-2010 was coordinated at this stage. After one year of discussion and coordination, the Government then adopted a resolution at the end of May 2007 and sent it to the National Assembly on 20 June. Our parliamentary group then immediately convened the consultation of all actors on 22 June, including on their initiative, in order to discuss and try to overcome the opposition to the resolution, which was not initiated because of itself, in this stage of a coordinated resolution, but because of the start of the internal informal coordination of the draft Single Law on Higher Education and Research Development. At this meeting, it was said or found that, when the resolution was co-ordinated, the details of the financing of habilitation and autonomy were deliberately not coordinated because they wanted to submit the resolution to the Government and Parliament as soon as possible for adoption. We have agreed, however, that these areas will be coordinated in further discussions and coordination. The conclusions of this meeting were also that the law was coordinated in peace and not in the eyes of the public and media manipulation, that the Minister for its preparation and coordination should immediately appoint and convene a working group and, with regard to the resolution, all participants would send written comments that we would meet again in the parliamentary group before the hearing on the home committee. All of this was done. Our Slovenian Democratic Party Group has thus managed to establish a dialogue in some way, to re-establish dialogue between partners and the ministry, both with regard to the resolution and the thorough coordination of the law, where all the topics are open and open, i.e. coordinated and uncoordinated, resolutions themselves. The Minister also made a promise and in July also appointed a working group composed of representatives of the Ministry, the ŠOS, the University or the Academy and the SWIZ, the VIR and the KORIS, as well as some others. Now, the essence of all this happening in these almost two years is, in my opinion and in the opinion of our Group of Members, an incredible waste of time. And this element of time is what we may be most concerned about, namely, the necessity of change and reform in the field of higher education and research and development is not only in Slovenia, which has not yet experienced these changes, but is a necessity in all parts of the world. Thus, I do not understand some debates today or presentation when those are stigmatised, which we advocate for the adoption of a resolution, further dialogue and coordination in other acts, in order to stigmatise this as some sort of Jacobinan intolerance, octoration, policy on expertise and so on. I don't know if anyone actually read the resolution or not. The point is, it's obviously somewhere else. We believe that it is not sincerely intended to participate in the preparation and acceptance of urgent changes. After the reform 12 years ago, Finns are preparing a new one because they are aware that fundamental changes are needed if they want to be prepared for unknown and known or unexpected challenges in the future, mainly because of the globalisation I understand - the integration of all parts of the world and the competition and cooperation between them in order to maintain the level of innovation and competitiveness with advanced parts of the world, and also because of the increasing life and active working age; due to the challenges of new technologies and other ways of education, we do not mention the different, more difficult expectations of young people and schoolers and the economy. Major changes are taking place here. Slovenian higher education, as well as research and development, has not experienced, first of all, any business or organisational or substantive reform airing. At the same time, the public and media response of the university and the research and research spheres is both sad and interesting. Only those who oppose such a harmonised resolution are loud. The economy and colleges are more or less passive. But when you talk to individual representatives of the university, there is a lot of criticalness to the situation; especially by the colleges, their professors and dean, which, of course, do not want to be exposed to the structure of these universities. But, unfortunately, it's a quiet group, but we think it's actually a majority group. Where do we see the main challenges? Customers, if you allow, students and the economy, must have a clear and coordinated picture of the requirements and expectations of changes due to the necessity to reach products and services of higher added value and better employment opportunities; and then, of course, work, professional, professional progress and, finally, pay. Better quality habilitation and more appropriate title structure, healthy competitiveness by allowing for better and more successful performance among higher education teachers. Universities and universities have not yet experienced, as mentioned, organisational and business renovations, which are not linked in any way to autonomy and academic freedom. Why should autonomy also mean deciding on the university's connection? It's part of autonomy. We all think that together we are not aware that knowledge and its use, innovation and its transfer to products and services is crucial for the quality and the quality and security of the future. The situation in the higher education sector is not improving. The University of Ljubljana was ranked between 451 and 500 cities in 2003 and between 402 and 508 cities in 2007. In IMD Competitives yearbook 2005, 2006, 2007 states that Slovenia allocates substantial funding for education. However, only higher education is not well evaluated. For example, if we were to consider today a resolution on the national programme on research and development - I went to look at two chapters, autonomy and responsibility, and the public and transparency - if you read that chapter, it would be incredibly problematic in the context of the problem of the resolution that we are considering today. It's extremely problematic. Very nice paragraphs in which there was no discussion. We think redecorating is an emergency. It is not about autonomy, which is a fact and clearly necessary, but it is essential that the university's substantive information reform, which should at least be computerised according to the possibilities of today's technology, is very necessary. The problem of autonomy is also a responsibility to taxpayers and consumers, students, investigative organisations and economies. If this were the responsibility, this change and the urgency of reforms would not be necessary. On the other hand, it cheers up the recognition of the current Rectors of the urgency of reforms. In fact, all the actors. I didn't notice anyone who argued that the current situation was appropriate, except for the former rector, Professor Mencinger's academics, who spoke in his interesting way of saying that everything was fine. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that it is necessary and acceptable as soon as possible, and we hope that today we will also confirm, the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme, that cooperation on implementing acts must be actively continued and that the normative basis for making the changes that the Slovenian Democratic Party believes are necessary and necessary as soon as possible. It is the quality and security of our future, our grandchildren. The results will only be tangible after a certain period of time, so we will also support the motion for a resolution in our parliamentary group and also propose amendments to the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pečan has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. We are truly disappointed in the Group of Social Democrats, but we are not surprised at the behaviour of members of the coalition parties who participated in the consideration and adoption of the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme on the Labour Body. Emphasis: Parties that have participated and have members in this working body. Some members of the coalition don't even seem to know how the working bodies are made up. Not only were the former Minister of Higher Education and his team not prepared for any dialogue, or rather polylogue with partners in the field of higher education, research and development, with universities, research institutes, with a student organisation, with an economy participating in all stages of the higher education and research process. On the contrary, despite more than obvious warnings from the professional and other interested public, which has been actively involved in the preparation of the crowd of substantive and conceptually important amendments to the text of the resolution, Members and Members of the coalition parties who have their representatives in the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, together with the former Minister as a Dominion, have abolished the amendments that would significantly improve the text of the resolution, while at the same time reaching the agreement of all partners on the vision of our country on the way through which our higher education, research and development professions should be developed. Moreover, even very few amendments tabled by opposition parties, groups and independent Members have not been granted the final approval of coalition parties and substantial improvements, in particular those which highlight the autonomy of state universities and the necessity to reach agreement between higher education partners and research and development spheres with the Government or the competent ministry. Here, for example, I would point to the fact that an amendment has already been tabled to delete the text of part two in the introduction, and this is, "the appropriate role means cooperation and consideration by all partners and consequently appropriate agreement for all key objectives". This means that the coalition Members and the Ministry, who are now involved in the adoption of the resolution, do not intend to continue to involve and gain the consent of the partners in higher education, research and development, because they delete one of the essential sentences which actually predicts this. We have experienced even greater disappointment when the Minister's candidate non-chalantly argued that the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme is a suitable basis for all further action by the Ministry and for the subsequent implementation of the resolution in the form of laws and regulations. No warning that such a resolution leads to the preference of private higher education and a reduction in the quality and autonomy of state universities and research institutes is warranted. It is only the fact that both the Ministry and the Members of the Coalition insist that an independent agency for the evaluation of higher education institutions is not needed and that we leave evaluation to the Paravladov High Education Council, although Slovenia has also signed in the person of the former Minister a Bergen and London communication which clearly states that the body carrying out the evaluation of higher education must be independent and independent, that is to say that it cannot be designed in such a way as to achieve self-assessment or domestic evaluation, by means of the method of 'kadia sues - the Court of Justice'. I would like to respond, although I know that business is probably not exactly in place, but still, it is almost likely that one particular table would have to be ordered, stating that the parliamentary group or party of Social Democrats violated some moral principles when it participated in the amendment and in rejecting such a resolution on the national higher education programme. We listen to this until disability, but I believe that at least what it is, reading morals or low morals in this case is far from the truth and far from the facts. First, the fact is that our Vice-President signed a statement of agreement at this stage and on the basis of a clear statement by the representatives of the Ministry of Higher Education that the resolution is fully in line with all higher education and other partners, including the Student Organisation of Slovenia, the Slovenian Student Organisation. Well, the fact is, that's not true. It turned out a few weeks after we signed that statement. It is said that we were disengaged from this agreement at a time when it was shown that the higher education and research sphere did not agree with such a resolution. Why they do not agree, but there is already a second pair of gloves, but we will not talk about this today, because we do not have the law that caused the disagreement that the ministry has produced at present. However, I would like to remind you of an event which does not have a direct link to this resolution, but which has to do with the way in which the Partnership for Development works. When dealt with in the framework of the Partnership for the Development of the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act, which was previously fully coordinated with students, social partners and the Development Partnership, including with the party of the Social Democrats, it was then amended with very radical amendments in the second reading, namely, amendments to the coalition tabled unilaterally and completely disrupted by the concept of the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment, despite all previous agreements, and did not feel the need to justify such behaviour. We also did not publish 10 times, 20 times, 30 times in various newspapers, how unworthy and immoral the coalition was if you tell us because it did something far worse - something that was coordinated, she wanted to turn completely over with amendments in the National Assembly. That's the second pair of gloves, yeah. I would also like to say that it is imperative that this resolution be a complete, incredible waste of time if we were to engage in a re-examination with all partners in higher education, research and development on a new text of a resolution that would not bring about a revolution in higher education, research and development, but, above all, a coordinated vision of the whole area on such an important subject as higher education, research and development. We agree that there must be changes in this system, but that changes will be agreed upon by those who study, those who teach, those who research, and by us who are users of this knowledge and who are parents, after all, children who study. However, democracy simply commands that time should be taken, in order to enable all those who feel the need and have an interest to cooperate and to achieve what consensus decisions can be made and to prepare harmonised documents, as this resolution should be. To conclude, I would like to say that the Group of Social Democrats no longer wishes to participate in the cartoon of democracy, which is called the debate and adoption of the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme. That is why, at the conclusion of the presentation of the positions of the members of the groups, we will leave the meeting and we will not participate in either the debate or the adoption of the amendments and the resolution itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor, on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At the Liberal Democratic Club of Slovenia we regret that today it is on the agenda, we can say, an unfortunate resolution on the national programme of higher education in the Republic of Slovenia. The LDS Club has repeatedly proposed that a controversial document such as a resolution on higher education be withdrawn from the parliamentary procedure when setting the agenda for the September meeting of the National Assembly. We have also proposed a public presentation of opinions before the hearing on the working body by members of the Liberal Democracy, with the aim of bringing together the entire Slovenian, professional and interested public with their views on the development of higher education in Slovenia, with a view to providing information, views and views on how and where our higher education will develop in the future. Unfortunately, our proposal has been rejected by coalition Members, which we regret, because it does not happen very often that the professional public, the interested public, is not allowed to discuss substantive matters that later have a decisive impact on their work and development, and their success and effectiveness depend largely on the successful development of Slovenian society. Thus, our proposals, as well as how many times in this mandate, have come across the deaf ear again. Perhaps someone still wonders why an unfortunate resolution and why it would have to be withdrawn. In our opinion, first of all, because the minister was with her for a very long year. Of course, the most important thing is that the content of the resolution is such that it means a loss of confidence in the work of the higher education partners and the substantive inadequacy of written solutions. This is best illustrated by the words of the Rector of the University of Ljubljana, Dr Andreja Kocijancič, on the home committee when discussing the resolution, explaining the circumstances in which it was accepted. It therefore further explains that the resolution was initially quite ambitious and that the ambitious resolution was drafted by the higher education partners and made comments, some of which were taken into account. Unfortunately, however, they did not agree on the essential elements, which are now missing in the resolution. The resolution became so loose that it could be interpreted in many ways. And when they adopted such a loose resolution, they agreed with the proposer that they would be contentious, but that they would take time for essential issues in higher education and research, and that they would be agreed upon during the establishment of the starting points for the law. Instead of talking and looking for solutions to open issues, the higher education partners received a proposal on the table for a draft or draft proposal for a unified law, where things that they could never agree on were written from the point of view of the proposer. And here, according to the rector, higher education partners feel cheated, from here their discomfort arises, and as a result, so many comments and so many amendments have been written in the resolution below. In this regard, the words of all, with former ministers Dr. Zupan at the head of the debate on the co-ordination of the resolution, are placed in a completely different dimension. In view of the repeated statement by the Government and a number of Members of the ruling coalition that the resolution is harmonised, it is necessary to reiterate that at the beginning of this year the resolution was truly coordinated, but when the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and Higher Education Partners failed to address important questions on fundamental issues such as: the relationship between public and private education, the financing of universities, the provision of further autonomy of universities, the social partnership and others, the resolution has been written as a loose document; even more so, in our opinion, an empty document, which is intended to be substantively complemented by the Joint Law on Higher Education and Research Activities. Thus, such an empty and substantive document was agreed upon by the higher education partners because they believed that the minister would keep his word and inadequacy together with them, i.e. the higher education partners, in a united marriage. Unfortunately, the opposite happened. Before the resolution was discussed in the Government, the Minister sent to the professional public a draft law drawn up by three government, called, of course, "jurists", past the professional public, that is, through universities, research institutes, trade unions, students and the true intention of the Minister. With this draft law and the solutions it brought to the college partners, it became more than clear that the devil had taken the joke. In its solutions, the law has missed its main objective, namely to really link higher education activities and research activities. The law was written in such a way that it allowed and enabled political involvement in higher education. Thus, the proposal for a united law, which we held in our hands, read and marveled at the content and proposed solutions, regulated the higher education area beyond the wishes of the higher education partners and beyond the European guidelines. In doing so, it is interesting that, according to the President of the Government, there was no united law in the context of his reply to the question, and that there is no law; despite the fact that the Government had deducted almost 50,000 euros for it - there was no money for something that does not exist. Although late, the minister only realized that it was necessary to reach agreement first on the further development of higher education in Slovenia and then to write down the legal text. However, despite the fact that the Minister has withdrawn the proposal of the contested law, the issue still remains the issue of the usefulness of spending tax money. The bill was thus withdrawn because of the pressure of the higher education sphere and all interested public, but a weak resolution remained. An uncoordinated resolution, accompanied by a poor experience of confidence, came into the parliamentary procedure. It is not surprising, therefore, that more than 250 supplements have been added by higher education partners. There were marathon sessions of the Higher Education Committee. It is impossible to present here all the content proposals and arguments for the necessary additions presented by the higher education partners and opposition members during the Committee's discussion. Many times a procedural proposal has been tabled to suspend and allow all partners and the proposer time to prepare a coordinated proposal, they have come across a deaf ear. Instead of the content arguments, he argued the argument of power due to the functioning of the voting machine of the coalition Members who participated in the committee's work. In basketball, given the success of the European basketball championship, a "time out" is taken when the game fails, thus trying to improve the game. Unfortunately, however, the opportunity offered and the adjourned debate due to parliamentary holidays did not bring any such desired change. The opportunity for reconsideration was thus again delayed. Despite the fact that there were no compelling arguments on the proposed amendments, most of the proposed amendments were rejected. This led to obstruction of opposition Members who did not want to participate in the farce directed by the coalition MPs in their work on the committee. At the time of consideration of the resolution, however, there was also a major gap between the promises made by former Minister Dr. Zupan at the beginning of his term of office and between the results of his work. How encouraging were his words and his promises of willingness to dialogue, taking into account the professional and other interested public, the integration, cooperation and pooling of the power of higher education, research institutes and the economy, the opening and liberalisation of higher education. There were many promises and predictions, only few battles were fulfilled. Other false moves by Minister Zupan also took place, and we announced interpellation in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. All the latest developments surrounding the adoption of the resolution have also been too much for the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša. Thus, this unfortunate resolution followed by the Phantom Act encouraged the Prime Minister of the Government to propose the Minister's replacement. However, it is surprising that the President of the Government, when he took the first step, did not do the following, the second, so he suggested that the procedure for the adoption of the resolution should continue after the appointment of the new Minister. Therefore, in the opposition, in particular the public, we need to clarify the reasons why we should adopt the Resolution on Higher Education in an emergency situation. Why do I think that the procedures for adopting a resolution are in a state of emergency? The motion for a resolution is inconsistent with the professional and interested public. At the same time, in such an important area as science, higher education and technology, we do not have a minister or minister today to defend and defend such an important document as the resolution on higher education. We wonder whether this is the right way for further development of higher education and science and whether such approaches will help us to increase the welfare of the Republic of Slovenia. That the answer is no, we are shown by the Government's further actions, since it is not expected that anything will change after the Minister's replacement. We are seriously concerned at the LDS Club, because in our opinion it will not be enough and not enough to replace only the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, it would be necessary to change the entire policy of action in this area and the conduct of the Government and most of the ruling coalition. That this is not the case and that we can expect the same behavioural patterns in the future, we are convinced that the candidate for the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, who has already received support from the labour force, has not supported the proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda of this session of the National Assembly. Moreover, it considers that the resolution is good and harmonised on the basis of responses to the home labour body. At the same time, the non-admission of the resolution would allow the debate on such an important document to be brought back to the fore and thus reinforce its words on its desire to create conditions for dialogue and to create confidence between the higher education partners and the ministry. At the conclusion of the presentation of the position of the Liberal Democracy Club on the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme, I would like to reiterate once again that the resolution has led to a complete division between the Government on one hand and higher education, research institutions and the opposition on the other. The government and the coalition are not prepared to seek compromise, they are not prepared to engage in dialogue between partners that are key to creating a high school and research space. In particular, it is concerned about the absence of the Government's awareness and the majority of the ruling coalition of urgency in order to achieve the greatest possible social consensus on the content of such an important document as the resolution under consideration. So, in the professionally interested and general public and in politics. Therefore, allow me to say from this place that at the LDS Club we will not participate further in the adoption of this uncoordinated document, which will set out guidelines for the development of higher education in the Republic of Slovenia when it opposes all higher education. We therefore announce, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the obstruction of this item of the agenda by the Liberal Democracy Club following the conclusion of the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Aloise Sok has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear fellow Members and Members! It was expected that the opposition would obstruct this session today, as were the work of the committee, and I am also surprised that there are no Rectors today and representatives of universities who have been present on the committee all the time to the end and students, but, however, probably where they are listening, so I also welcome them all. Like all this time, very little or nothing has been discussed here today about the content itself, perhaps the most discussed by Dr. Gantar, and all the rest is about the form. This resolution has sparked major debates, but if the Slovenian public today asked what is really wrong with this resolution, they would not get the answer, because no one knows what is so deeply bothering you in this resolution. That all university shit is against it, too. Then we should ask all the professors if they're really against, all the dean colleges, if they're all free, but you don't have that information, so, on your thumb, you say they're all against it. It is gratifying, however, that in this debate the Rectors have also said that changes in this area are necessary, but later, when they are included in the debate, it has become clear that such changes are needed so that no changes will be made so that everything remains as it was. If I touch myself at this time at my disposal, three areas that were somehow the most exposed in this resolution; for the first time, the anatomy of universities - of course, we have different views here. We all agree that it is necessary to leave the universities alone on the professional level, and that is also what this resolution guarantees them and does not affect this resolution. Even that law that has become so controversial in the drafting phase, which has led to the beginning of a coordinated resolution to be problematic, and you will not be able to deny that the resolution was not harmonised because the notes, arguments, documents put you on the lie, gentlemen from SD, this is all written down, your Vice-President has signed it. Now some kind of statement that this was said to be consistent with everyone and so on. These are, of course, twisted arguments from the vine, he agreed to it and he signed it. Later, when you saw the draft of this united, common law, of course, you changed your mind. There is no doubt - well, Mr Kumer, because you will get the word - there is no doubt that as far as professionalism is concerned, no one interferes with the autonomy of universities, because nobody will do it because it would be pointless. Of course, financial autonomy is clearly different. The Secretary of the University of Maribor, Mr Brumen, said that the state does not have the right to intervene in financial transactions and that the university must be financed by taking as much as it needs. That professors can have the kind of salary you choose. Go brother of these magnetograms, so enthusiastically defending this financial autonomy that he forgot to submit an invitation to the Ministry in time. [[...]] [[Tickets from the bench.]] It's not rude, it's the truth, he forgot to apply to the Ministry, and for a lot of money he hurt students at the University of Maribor. Is there going to be any consequence? If this resolution were to be adopted and subsequently a suitable law, it should be. He forgot to apply within the deadline and then there is an opportunity to apply outside that deadline. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] [[....]] President, if you allow our Slavko to comment in between and so on, then I will wait for our Slavka to be finished and then I will continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u69	I'd really like peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u70	Yeah, of course, because that's one purpose, no. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u71	Mr. Sok, go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u72	I can't, I can't go on if I'm disturbed and they're trying to confuse me, because they won't, because I'm gonna wait. Main [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Mr Brumen has made other statements, and I will touch on this later. [[...]] He forgot to give up that role in time and, of course, the University of Maribor this year lost these funds and will be able to sign up for another call. [[...]] But in New Slovenia we cannot agree that autonomy would mean that the country has no right to say how much money it spends on the functioning of universities and how much a university can spend. Another issue that has been raised very strongly in all these debates was the issue of funding universities and, accordingly, to what extent to allow the introduction of privacy in this area, to which degree to establish competitiveness, competitive conditions. And here, too, today we were able to hear, and even on the committee there was no difference, to great ideological debates and, above all, to opposition for ideological reasons. This same gentleman, whom I mentioned earlier, said in this area that today in Slovenia the only added value of private schools is a mass. That's what the magnetogram says. If a university official says that, I'm ashamed that he's a Styrian, but I can't help myself, because that's his way of thinking. We know that in the past, the Styrians have played another role in this country. But as far as the resolution is concerned. On the basis of the commitments made by the resolution, students will be given a higher quality of study and their involvement in international cooperation, that means that each student will have the opportunity to carry out a study, one semester, diplomas, compulsory practice, experimental work, also abroad, and that, in fact, through this record, they will be able to open up their way into the world of research, learning about foreign cultures and, in particular, learning about customs and situations that rule abroad. The next important aspect I would like to highlight here is also one of the commitments made in the resolution on social issues. If we compare studies abroad, not only do students pay tuition fees, but they also pay all the material and material they use in the study, unlike us, where it is and the resolution will commit itself to the Government to assist students from an economic point of view and to provide them. Here I am referring to subsidised stay in student homes and also in private, then in subsidised diet, 100% pay for teaching work, which means that the tuition you are so troubled is not available, except for exceptional studies and for studies in private higher education institutions. One of the goals of autonomy is also to work and advocate for the integration of higher education with science and the economy, where it is necessary to realize that students or graduates who come from college are allowed to participate as soon as possible with their knowledge in the economy so that they do not have only theoretical knowledge, but also practical knowledge. Connecting these two spheres to higher education would mean that we integrate students in pregraduate and postgraduate studies as soon as possible into the economy and connect them to institutes through the economy. The resolution advocates that 80 young researchers be given work in the economy each year, that they become part of the teams, and that then that knowledge they acquire at universities in colleges be used as best as possible in this area. The third issue, which received a great deal of impetus and debate in the debate itself at the 29th meeting of the Higher Education Committee, is the area of the recruitment of higher education teachers. The resolution in this area foresees that in order to improve the student situation, it is necessary to increase the number of higher education teachers and co-workers with approximately the same number of students, which can be achieved by opening up higher education. Therefore, researchers from public research institutions and economies as well as researchers and higher education teachers from abroad will be involved in tertiary teaching activities. This also means Slovenians who live and work abroad. With quality renovation, Slovenian higher education institutions will become more attractive to domestic and foreign experts and students. This means opening up higher education and thus improving the quality of professors. And there is no doubt that professors are even more attractive, that they support their lectures as much as possible with various inputs from practice as they can share different films from students, from which they can then learn certain theories. The resolution advocates a higher quality of professors and a better quality of teaching work, which means that we get diplomats with a wider range of knowledge based not only on theory, but also on examples from practice. On the other hand, education must also be provided for such situations, which will also mean greater financial resources. Total funding for research and higher education is 2.3% of the budget, of which 1% for research and 1.3% for teaching and 2.7% for the environment. This means that a total of 5% of the gross social product, in accordance with the guidelines set out in the resolution, should be earmarked for funding higher education and research activities in the future. If I simplify, the objectives of higher education, which are described as proposals in this resolution, are: firstly, to create a single higher education space in the Republic of Slovenia; secondly, to accelerate and accelerate the exchange of knowledge in the triangle of higher education, science, economy; thirdly, to balance the enrolment of young people between 19 and 26 years in tertiary education; fourthly, to increase the share of the population involved in higher education, from the present, 15% to 25%, and to achieve the ratio of graduates from the present 57% to at least 75%, of course, given the first enrolment of students in the first year; fifthly, to increase the funding for higher education and research to 5% of the gross social product; sixthly, Slovenia has 7 to 10 universities or higher education and innovation centres. So it's not just universities, but higher education and innovation centres are also written here. Some of you have questioned why 7 to 10. I see in the resolution that there is a need to define and write down a goal. This goal is broad enough because it is in the range of 7 to 10. The next goal, the establishment of at least one of Slovenian universities at the best European university. We know where we are today, and we still have a lot of work to do. Eight, increase the flow of experts between higher education and research institutions and the economy. Let me get this straight. In New Slovenia, we somehow understand that any change is something that in practice may encounter a conflict of interest, and that the rectors are actually against in some way because they somehow fear big changes. But we understand student opposition a little bit harder. And they're actually hard to understand, because there's a lot of things written down in this resolution that's good for the study itself. Thus, this resolution seeks to introduce more practical exercises, which is also reflected in the Bologna process. This means that it is not only an emphasis on theoretical knowledge but also on practice and that it will be achieved through both postgraduate and postgraduate students that they will somehow find themselves within the economic process, or if I say otherwise, that they will better get their first job. Furthermore, by means of regional scholarship schemes based on partnership between regional development agents, it will be possible to harmonise the supply/recruitment ratio in the region in the future, to raise the level of the education structure in the region, to influence the reduction of structural unemployment, to influence the return of schooled staff from university centres back to the regions, to encourage companies in the region for human resources scholarships and better planning of the required staff, to bring the workforce closer to the labour market situation and to reduce through all this transfer of staff to large centres. The third type of scholarships set out in this resolution are state scholarships, which are primarily for socially disadvantaged groups of students. The resolution also places a great deal of emphasis on the subject of student work as an important basis for earning income for study purposes. All of these are solutions that we believe in New Slovenia that students should be greeted, to work primarily in this direction, that the length of the study is reduced, that the study is quality, that the study is accessible to all. All of this is also recorded in this resolution, as it is appropriate for resolutions. Let me get this straight. Some of you said there were 250 additions to this document. If I repeat the Minister's statement, which is no longer today, Dr. Zupan, he has somehow responded to these criticisms by adding to the fact that it is also possible to add 250 to the Ten Commandments, which are simply written, if anyone wants it. Many of these additions have been made in this respect. Some were descriptively very broad and, on the other hand, the resolution was required to be short, transparent and concise. If all of these 250 were to be completed, then this resolution would not leave any more than some opaque, very long scarves. As far as what's going on here is concerned, I'm gonna get this over with. I am a second Member, entering almost the eighth year of my term of office. I have not seen such a meeting in this Parliament, such as the management of this committee. In order to replace investors; the majority of amendments were tabled by Ambassador Gaber; in order to be reasoned by others instead; in the end, he would be doing summaries and actually directing when someone should stop, when to stop, when to register, who should get the word, and so on, I have practically not yet experienced it. And if there was a farce, then the farce was made from the work of this committee. I myself have been Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture for some time. I can honestly tell you, I would never let anything like that happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr Kontic has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the last part you held the meeting and at the beginning of the presentation of the opinion of the New Slovenia Group. But I do want to warn you, and I rarely warn you about these irregularities that are happening. The presentation of the opinions of the members of the groups is not aimed at controversy with the other parliamentary groups, nor even with individual Members, because you will probably also reply to everyone who wants to replicate that replicas are not possible, and of course you will do the right thing in this case. Therefore, those who speak on behalf of the parliamentary group and exceed the scope permitted by the Rules of Procedure should also be warned. It is even less or least appropriate for a representative of the parliamentary group to use the speaker’s stage to deal with those who are not present in the hall, to mention them and also to malign them and also to judge them in a way that makes them proud and ashamed. I think it is therefore necessary to give a warning and I suggest that - this is my procedural proposal - in order to avoid such events at the meeting of the National Assembly do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u75	Thank you. However, this is not a proposal for a vote. Mr Jelinčič also has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Given that the motion for a resolution on the national programme of higher education of the Republic of Slovenia 2007-2010 is a completely "blended" document, which we cannot support in any way and also makes no sense to discuss, I therefore predict the obstruction of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u77	Thank you. Sir, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u78	Thank you very much. If we are talking about these procedural proposals, which of course are not procedural proposals, then let me say for myself that I have not touched Mrs Brede Pecan, who is here, should be answered in broad terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u79	I think we could end up with such procedural proposals. We would like to continue the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u80	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, honourable Members of Parliament! At the outset, I must point out that the members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed resolution on the National Higher Education Programme, although we believe that the resolution could and should even be a little more concrete, with clearer guidelines and principles. Our decision to support the resolution is based in particular on the fact that this was in fact coordinated with the higher education partners and that in fact the opposition arose after the higher education and general public were informed of the draft law on higher education and development activities. We are convinced that, otherwise, we would adopt a resolution on the national higher education programme more or less unanimously. Higher education is a key element in the sustainable development of global competitiveness and national identity. Universities and other higher education institutions are of exceptional and irreplaceable importance for the development of Slovenian scientific, cultural and social life. In the Slovenian People's Party, we strive to respect the autonomy of universities, to increase the openness of universities to foreign students, visiting teachers, to cooperate among higher education institutions in the preparation of interdisciplinary programmes for transparent quality checks of institutions. We believe that only the cooperation of universities with the local economy and other higher education institutions makes it possible to achieve surpluses for all key partners and contributes to the development of individuals and societies. Knowledge is undoubtedly the kind that has and will have an even more decisive impact on the development of Slovenia in the future. We have written in many documents that Slovenia wants to be a state or a knowledge-based society. A good and quality higher education system is key to ensuring quality experts and thus the developmental orientation of the country. In Slovenia, a lot of attention has been paid in recent years to reshaping the primary education system. Changes and various measures in primary education are also very common today. We think that we can easily claim that we have a quality primary school in Slovenia, as well as secondary education, achieves good results. On the other hand, we cannot be satisfied with the results at the higher level or at the tertiary level. The most obvious are the extremely long study period and only the formal reform of higher education and in line with the Bologna Guidelines. Regarding the duration of the study, much has already been said and also written mainly in terms of finding the reasons and the culprits for such a situation. One attribute the reasons for the long studies to students who, due to the benefit of their student status and associated student work, have no ambition after completing their studies quickly. Others believe that the university is a social institution that allows students with a long-term study to have normal social status, since even in the event of a rapid completion of the study, young students should not be able to work. Others speak of the situation as a result of the reduction of the criteria for enrolment in higher education or of the fact that some of the programmes of the study are obviously overloaded and far exceed the actual needs of the Slovenian labour market. However, it is crucial that the country pays directly and indirectly for all years of study and thus, in terms of cost analysis, loses a lot of resources, and even greater losses are in the area of unused potentials of young people who, due to the length of studies during the most optimal period, do not contribute to the creation of added value for the development of Slovenia as well as for themselves. Another major problem with higher education is that the Bologna programme renovation did not constitute a real renewal of the programmes. At the same time, we must stress that this does not apply to all universities and other higher education institutions. Many programmes have only been amended by means of a credit assessment of individual items and divided into two stages. A lot of inconsistencies around the level of the Bologna study, and above all the third level, have caused a lot of problems. Here we can mention the fact that many students who completed their studies and obtained university education in the previous study year entered the second stage of the Bologna study. The problem is that they paid their own tuition for the second grade and later found that they had not obtained higher levels of education, which was the reason for their entry to the second level. The amendment of the Higher Education Act allowed students to study free of charge at both levels. In order to effectively improve the situation, Slovenian tertiary education needs to provide additional resources. In doing so, we would not like to determine whether additional funds are possible in the form of tuition, or closer cooperation with the economy or perhaps in any other third way. In the Slovenian People's Party, however, we are no doubt aware that without additional resources, the technical faculty in particular will not be able to make the necessary progress. While the aim of the proposed resolution is clearly set out in an increase in funding, we stress that the decision on how to provide additional financial resources and the source will require an integrated approach. Good supervision or monitoring of the quality of higher education institutions is also of great importance for Slovenia. Indeed, I would not like to expose any of the institutions, but it is generally known in the public where private higher education institutions are able to obtain academic education without any excessive effort and that the main role of these institutions is to pay relatively high school fees. Quality control will undoubtedly need to be strengthened. Although recent changes in higher education legislation have brought positive developments in this direction, the evaluation system will need to be implemented and upgraded as soon as possible. In the event that the existing solutions do not have the right effects, it will also be necessary to reconsider a fully independent and independent national agency to monitor the quality of higher education, as students have proposed years ago. We have already warned about this at the time of the adoption of the last amendment to the Higher Education Act. Quality control is of paramount importance, mainly due to an increase in the number of private or private higher education institutions. Why am I talking so much about the state of higher education in Slovenia? Because the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme is the document that lays the groundwork for further development of higher education. It is the basis for the preparation of the Higher Education and Research Act. During the procedure on the home working body, a number of amendments were adopted which meant improving the resolution and which brought it closer to the goal of becoming a good basis for the drafting of the new law. With regard to the procedure for preparing and adopting the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme, I can say that it has turned out that some higher education partners have cooperated with the fig in their pocket. For the Slovenian People's Party Group, it is unacceptable that representatives of the largest educational institutions in Slovenia gave support to the resolution and coordinated it and later claimed that the resolution was poor and prepared a number of proposals. Indeed, the resolution could be better, could be more concrete, could have even clearer guidelines for the further development of higher education in Slovenia. We have pointed out this in the SLS Group at the time of drafting the text of the resolution, but we cannot agree by any means on the arguments of the representatives of one of the universities that the resolution was harmonised, but later on in the draft law it proved to be too wide and that it does not bring good solutions to the law. That is why, suddenly, the resolution was no longer acceptable. Where's the responsibility here? If the high school partners had not seen the bill's proposal, the resolution would have been a good one, which obviously allows for debate and has a broad framework. Later, the same resolution is no longer good, even more. The resolution, according to the same people, is completely meaningless all of a sudden. We do not think that such a relationship can guarantee higher quality and good solutions, but we would not expect representatives of Slovenian universities to do so. Agreeing to a bad proposal is irresponsible. Of course, a reform of the higher education study requires the consensus or coordination of all partners. However, we need to know that in every serious reform, each partner must be aware that changes also bring certain failures, and above all require responsible achievement of quality. The policy of establishing new higher education institutions, designing programmes and determining the number of students enrolled under individual programmes must be closer to the needs of the labour market. We can't afford to invest in students who can't use their education to get a job after a full-time study. Good analysis and monitoring of developments and trends in the labour market will be needed to at least minimise the gap between the education structure and the needs of the labour market. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the main guidelines and objectives of the proposed resolution. The autonomy of research and education activities is essential. The integration of the economy and closer cooperation with higher education and science is inevitable. We also support the increase in the number of higher education institutions, but we reiterate the need to ensure quality and its continued monitoring and control by an independent institution. Finally, we can argue that the proposed resolution leaves enough scope for the preparation of a good and quality law on higher education and development and research activities. However, much more work will be needed and decisions will be made on specific issues to achieve the stated objectives in the resolution. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the resolution even though it could be better. We will support it because it was coordinated at a certain point in time and because it was somewhat complemented and corrected in the procedure on the parent's working body. We stress, however, that the law on higher education and development research activities must be prepared in good quality and that it must be developed-oriented. Good dialogue will be needed between all partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u81	Thank you. I am informed, Mrs. Pecanova, that you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u82	Procedurally. Thank you very much. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65, I reiterate that the Group of Social Democrats is leaving the Chamber at the time of its consideration of the resolution and we will also not participate in the vote on the amendments and the resolution in its entirety. I also officially declare obstruction, and the explanation has already been given in the position of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Gantar, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u84	Mr President, as I have already announced at the time of the presentation of the position, in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, the Group of Unaffiliated Members of the Parliament is indeed announcing obstruction of the treatment and vote at the 16th item of the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u85	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Germich, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. As I have already announced in the context of the presentation of the position of the LDS Club, the LDS Club, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, declares obstruction at this point in further debate and vote, leaving the meeting at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u87	Thank you. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the motion for a resolution. I'll only call those of you who are in the hall. Mrs. Eva Irgle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u88	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. We're going to feel a little lonely now that there's no more opposition in our ranks. I am very sorry that today all those who accompany this meeting can see this "show" which is, of course, intended to gain political points cheaply. We have also witnessed such a show on the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, just when the resolution on higher education was adopted. I am sorry that the Slovenian public can watch this today and can see how the opposition does not really care what is being adopted in the National Assembly today, how important the document is before us. I really regret that they will not cooperate constructively and as the Slovenian public expects them to do. For almost 30 hours we witnessed a debate on higher education or a resolution on higher education on the committee. I must say that I was very disappointed at that part of the professional public who did not insist on engaging constructively in the consideration of this resolution. I must say that the professional public in this part has acted extremely politically, also extremely, in line with the opposition, which is already a fugitive practice. If I can understand the opposition itself to obstruct the meetings because there are also business options for this, then I certainly cannot understand that the professional public, who should be involved in such an important document as the resolution on higher education, has not participated. However, we will be unjust if I do not say that part of the professional public, to a lesser extent, has worked until the end to address this resolution on the committee, for example, the Engineering Academy of Slovenia has been constructively involved in this debate and I think that there have been quite a lot of amendments by the Slovenian Academy of Engineering at the cabin. There was also a lot of talk in the initial presentations that the resolution was not harmonised. We have already said this many times, but it is obvious that some people need to say it 100 times, maybe 1,000 times, but if necessary, we will say it again. The resolution was coordinated with all higher education partners, primarily with the Student Organisation of Slovenia, and was aligned with universities, as well as at the level of the Partnership for Development. It is very bad for me that today or at this point, we no longer have Members of the Social Democrats sitting with us, who can confirm that. That no one will think that I am merely referring to this matter, I will say that the first coordination of the resolution on the national higher education programme with the Student Organisation of Slovenia took place on 18.10.2006, followed by the coordination with the Student Organisation of Slovenia on 9 November and the resolution was finally coordinated on 14 December. The student organisation of Slovenia made its comments, which was quite taken into account and the ministry eventually agreed with the student organisation that the resolution was harmonised and appropriate. If we look at the Rector's Conference and the universities. It was also definitively coordinated with them on 15 January, so to speak, that the resolution was not harmonised, is ordinary transposition or more. Let me say that all rectors and student organisations have been sent a harmonised version with a letter that they must send comments by 22 January, otherwise they are considered to disagree with the final version. And you know what happened? Nothing. The comment was neither by the Student Organisation nor by the Rector's Conference. And here I seriously wonder how serious we can be if some do not take into account when the Ministry asks them to comment on the resolution and they do not. Then there are 30 hours, and everything is wrong with the resolution. On 31 January, a coordinated resolution was also made known to the SWIZ syndicate. His main representative, Branimir Strukelj, is an expert in primary education, for higher education and so on, always speaks on these topics. But the surprise of the answer or comments that he did not agree with the content of the resolution was not from him. Today, however, he repeatedly reiterates how the resolution is not harmonised. And so are the others. I'm surprised he's not sitting on the balcony with us today, but he's probably working in accordance with opposition principles. The last thing I think is still important, and it was coordinated, as has already been said, in the Partnership for Development. Dr Igor Luksic, Vice-President of the Social Democrats, then signed a statement together with the Secretary of State, Mr Lesjak, and said that the resolution was harmonised. And here I must say that it is in reality a mere diversion and a two-faced game by the Social Democrats. As far as I am aware of the performances and statements made by the President of the Social Democrats, Mr Pahor, he usually, at least until now, has respected some of the agreements agreed between the partners. But I'm sorry, and that's why I'm so surprised that he has people with him who don't respect it. Once again, there is a gap between the party's highest management and others. We can also say that some "Subbregar's syndrome" has apparently fallen into the social-democratic race; he too, when it came to talking about Owl and what he signed, which he didn't know at once whether it was his signature or not, or whether he was signing any documents or not. That's extremely unserious to me. It's not serious that something is signed, and then it's said that something has not been signed. And if necessary, of course, we will say this again, because the Slovenian public must know that the resolution has been harmonised and that this is also an exit, this obstruction of all these parties, like colleague Sok, I think in the end, is a mere farce. And it's just that they're picking political points. However, in order not to deal only with obstruction, which, in my opinion, should not be, at least if the opposition wanted to be serious and constructive, it would be limited to the part of the resolution which is linked to the student population in the next few segments. In fact, what are the advantages of the resolution or resolution offered to students? On the basis of the commitments made in the resolution, higher quality studies and their involvement in international cooperation will be ensured for students. What does this mean in practice? This means that every student has the opportunity to conduct a study abroad. Of course, it can be decided, for example, between one semester of completing abroad, perhaps with regard to diploma, compulsory practice, experimental work and so on. The next important aspect, which is certainly welcome within the resolution, and in fact I don't know why students would so strongly oppose it within the student organisation, but here perhaps the more leadership of the student organisation are those who oppose it. I myself, when I speak with the students, see that the resolutions do not oppose it, but support it. Otherwise, they are aware that in some part of the work, there could be some other positive contribution to them, but they support the resolution in a global way. Thus, here we cannot compare the student organisations of Slovenia with all students who study at all ends of Slovenia. The social dimension of the resolution is certainly also an important aspect. If we compare studies abroad, we can see that students there usually pay tuition fees, but not just that, they also pay for all the materials and materials they use in the study, for example, if they come out or study in some directions that are technically-naturally oriented, then of course they have to pay for experimental samples, for laboratory exercises, for chemicals and so on. This is not the case with us, and the Government will continue to do so in this economic sense, and particular concern will be given to enable students to study as best as possible. This was confirmed on the Committee as well, I hope that on Monday the future Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, Mrs Kuclereva, is confirmed, which we are particularly pleased with. This government is increasingly committed to maintaining subsidisation in student homes and in private. It still agrees to a subsidised diet, which is absolutely important, to 100% pay for teaching work, which means that there is no tuition, but only in exceptional study and in private higher education institutions. Here I would like to provide some analysis or some information that has been made, since the number of subsidized beds has increased considerably from 2000 to today. In 2000 there were 8,117 subsidised beds in Ljubljana, and in 2005 there were 10,802. There is also a positive trend forward in Maribor, Kranj, New Town, also in Nova Gorica. Perhaps I would also like to mention at this point that the resolution also advocates greater quality of professors, as well as better quality of teaching work. Of course, we all prefer to go to lectures that are more interesting and have quality lecturers. Of course, it will also be necessary to continue to work to improve the study situation. And here the government has done quite a bit in this area. If we look at last year, it seems to me, or half a year ago, we passed a law in this National Assembly on the guarantee of the University of Primorska. This law has certainly been of great importance, even today, when we are involved in the process of creating a common European higher education space. If we want to be competitive at this level too, then we need to provide students who are studying with the right conditions and also with the right spatial options. And the University of Primorsk has so far not had these options, so that normal study was disabled for both professors and students. This is certainly to say that this situation is improving at this university as well. Also, if we look at the University of Novi Gorica, Politechnik, today or at that time part of it has also moved to the location in Ajdovščina, which is of great importance not only because the study is also provided for this area, but also because it can be linked to the economic sphere as a scientific sphere in this case. And that is certainly of exceptional importance. I myself will support the resolution of higher education, which has been, I must stress this once again, in line with all the partners. However, it may only be possible to conclude that the resolution also improves the situation of students with special needs whose status and opportunities are still not regulated as expected and as expected by Europe and as regulated in other European Member States. For a long time, we were also reminded of this by the Society of Disabled and Obsessive Students. But this resolution will also work on what is certainly a great positive step forward. I will support the resolution on higher education myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u90	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. I regret very much that all the opposition colleagues have left this Chamber in such an important document as the adoption of a resolution on this higher education programme. I think it's bad, too, because we didn't find any agreement at the time. This agreement requires two sides, both of them. I know that there has been a lot of debate at different levels, including at the committee itself, but unfortunately there has not been any greater success from this debate, any greater compromise, a consensus that is always needed if you want to reach the goal with greater support. We can support this today with some absolute majority. But, dear fellows and colleagues, this will be a poor journey for such an important document, a poor journey for that part of the profession, for that part of the policy, for that part of the users of this resolution, which is not here with us today, which is not supporting and which is on the other side. However, this is, after all, also a very bad journey for the future, on Monday, I hope, confirmed ministers in this area. And we're probably doing her a bad favor when she enters an area with an extremely bad omen. We kind of pushed it through, accepted it, and now this is it. I do not think it will be easy for her in this area, and I hope that this is a clear appeal to all of us in the coalition, that we do not do so and that we should make every effort earlier to find some common points that have been more critical or that we should be able to correct them with some political negotiation and accept that our opposition too would be more acceptable. I do not see who I should debate, I present my views on this resolution. You sure about that? I think that this is unnecessary and I think that, in principle, we have supported this as a party, but such acceptance of such an important document seems a little controversial from my point of view, and even the debate is not meant for us now, I am sure. I think it would be good to have an exchange of views, views and so on. This is not possible today, so I do not intend to discuss it myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u91	Thank you. Mrs. Mojca Kucler Dolinar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u92	Thank you very much, President for your word. Nice greetings to fellow Members of Parliament, fellow Members! I myself am convinced that this debate, including this debate here in the Chamber today, is necessary, I am sure that many of us are also being accompanied by modern reporting and reporting channels so that it is very appropriate that we discuss this and that I myself have applied for the debate. Indeed, in a year and a half about the content of the resolution, much has already been said today. The debate was therefore necessary and was also taking place. Many arguments were made for, as well as arguments against. And the controversy about the matter we are talking about is certainly understandable. However, it could be said that in certain segments it was already at a certain limit of justification or groundlessness, of course, at the discretion of each individual. Key guidelines in the area of higher education and research, if we want to address them qualitatively, we need to take them in an integrated manner. And this resolution, or the National Higher Education Programme, is the document that will take sides with the Resolution on Research and Development and which can be on track towards the goal that we want to achieve not only in Slovenia but also in Europe, against the Single Higher Education Area, but also towards the Single Research Area. Therefore, in this national programme, which we have before us today, it is also important to bear in mind that not only the applicable Higher Education Act but also the Bologna Declaration with all the additions and additions, but also the Lisbon Strategy. However, if we want to see other documents, Council of Europe documents, OECD documents and many of the research that individual countries have already done in the field of higher education, both within the European Union and beyond. And all these documents point to the need to change this type of education, i.e. after changing education after secondary education, after changing education after secondary education and generally we can say that the term of tertiary education has been adopted. Surely we can agree that some countries with changes started decades ago, other countries with years ago, and we are somewhere in the middle. And it is known that the regulation in the field of higher education varies from country to country. Experiences from abroad are beneficial, useful, and must also be taken into account and adapted to our own higher education space or wider, our social space. However, I am not referring to adjustments in the sense that we are doing as little as possible, but to such adjustments as are necessary to respond to the challenge of modern times. Above all, the challenge and our desire for a modern quality higher education system, after better employability of graduates, after greater mobility, not only students, but also professors, teachers and researchers. Above all, it is important that we prepare the younger generations adequately for the challenges they face and for the challenges we are all witnessing to them and that we will all face. That is why there is so much emphasis in terms of lifelong learning. It's not just gonna be words, it's become a fact. And also the tendency expressed both in the resolution and in the second resolution, which was adopted or in the preparation of the Ministry of Education, on lifelong learning, where the desire is to include older generations. On the other hand, we are certainly aware that information and new opportunities for communication technologies also provide new opportunities for teaching and research in higher education. And in addition to the above, all that calls for us to somehow refresh this higher education space of ours, to refresh the role of universities and higher education institutions, as well as research organisations that have already come to this path in part. Of course, we also need to take into account the issue of demographic image on the one hand, and on the other hand the increase in enrolment in higher education, which somehow compensates for the demographic downturn that we are witnessing in both Slovenia and Europe. At the same time, we will have to get used to discussing issues, changes in higher education programmes, the issue of how to manage and finance, the question of additional actors in higher education and the worst that would be here, is that we are holding back from learning. In this area too, there is an increasing number of public issues that want to know and require data also on the transparency and efficiency of spending public funds. I cannot agree with those who say that this is another document without content. The resolution, as well as the amendments adopted on the working body and in an appropriate manner complement the proposed content, after more than 30 hours of committee debate, as we have already heard today, provide some guidance on how to respond to the challenges in this area. It was interesting today to hear from both the opposition's kinds of views and when we were discussing coalition members to feel the need for change, and more so as to feel the need for a new law or a amended law. Of course we'll be here again before the challenge. It will be necessary to know how to talk and, above all, in this conversation, we must have the goals that we want to pursue and about which we have heard today, all of us. Above all, we are aware that certain changes will be necessary. With all the efforts that have been made to find an optimal solution to the content of the resolution, I am convinced that the only way is for us to adopt this resolution today. Of course, the next steps will be towards agreements and seeking, above all, non-conflict positions in amending legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Root.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u94	A good day to these other Members and Members of Parliament who have remained in the Chamber at this time. First of all, I must say that I am sure that Slovenia needs this resolution and that the resolution that we have before us today is of great importance and that this resolution has great importance both for today's students and for future students, on the other hand, for all those who carry out different study programmes as well as for the overall development and success of Slovenia in the future. What does the resolution want to achieve? Above all, that our education, higher education in fact, would be qualitative and comparable to other countries in Europe. I will be very brief in my debate, because I don't think it makes any sense to say much to the convinced. Maybe I'd just like to say the word to the students. I think that we need to enable students to study quickly and well, that we need to create the conditions, that this will allow them to not have too much time to devote to material goods so that they can study in this way, but that they will be able to carry out their real profession, to the fullest extent possible, and also to study within a period of time. I think there are many things in the resolution that are also trying to ensure this to our students. As has already been said, we do not introduce any paid studies, the studies are free, then subsidising student homes, subsidising student diets. We are preserving all these things and will also strengthen them in the future and develop them, and in particular it seems necessary to stress the work that this Government is trying to do in the field of scholarship. In particular, through a scholarship, we can in fact ensure this satisfactory material state of the students in order to devote themselves to their work. I must say that I look forward to the addition of the human resources scholarships that we already have, even though I think we will be able to do more in this area so that students will decide on the studies that we really need in Slovenia, which our economy needs. Then I think it is right to say a word about regional scholarships for which funds will be raised and distributed by municipalities, landscapes and regions, because I think it is very important for more coherent regional development, that after students have studied, when they graduate, to return to their environment and thus allow their birthplace, their region progresses to develop their economy and all other activities. I'll finish with the thought. I feel there is a need to say that the Minister of Higher Education has done a great deal in the last two years in the field of forcing the necessary studies. That in recent years this trend of enrolment has actually turned into colleges, that students, that young people only decide on the studies that are more promising, which Slovenia needs. I am sure that this will give the future minister, my colleague Mojca, a good basis on which she will be able to continue her work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to those who are aware of the seriousness and importance of the resolution and do not act anarchistically, as the opposition does. The resolution on the national programme of higher education of the Republic of Slovenia is an extremely important document if, of course, it is taken seriously, if these partners are acting seriously in the stage of acceptance as well as realization. On the basis of such a document, of course, and what is also covered by this motion for a resolution, is that it is directed so that the product resulting from the higher education process, and these are graduates, and these are our future generations, our future, are able to compete in the European knowledge and science market and be able to quickly take place within the domestic economy. And that is the fundamental objective of this resolution. And since the former Minister of Science, with the best references among all those who have so far appeared in Slovenian politics, international references, international indices, he certainly knew how to pursue this high goal. Therefore, the findings addressed to him are largely unjust, unrealistic, effluent from ideological needs and, of course, unjustifiable. The minister couldn't be political, and that's his virtue. And he didn't want to be political either, and in fact, I understand that he's retreated in this state. Now I would like to say a few things about how these partners or political groups behaved at the stage of adopting this resolution on the home committee. See, first of all, they tried to prove inappropriate or to use the poor content of the resolution to apply the fact that they tabled 250 amendments. It must be said to the Slovenian public that these 250 amendments were an instrument, obstructions, just as they are now obstructing the resolution in another way. This, however, is a legitimate instrument in politics. This instrument, for example, was served by the anti-Slovakia opposition in the Italian Parliament in the Italian National Alliance when the Act on the Global Protection of the Slovenian Minority was adopted at some stage. At that time, this anti-Slovakia opposition - not the opposition, the anti-Slovakia party - submitted 3,000 amendments to that law, even though it had been accepted for 20 years, and with the same argument as our opposition that it was a bad law, it operated. Secondly, it must also be said that this resolution was in line with the signatures, with all partners, with the Rector's Conference, with the parties, Mr Luksic as a former Dean or high-ranking official of the University of Ljubljana and was also signed by the Vice-President of the Social Democrats. However, this party of Social Democrats behaved in the same way as Croatian Prime Minister Račan, who resigned from the already signed interstate agreement. We have the same problems as our Croatian partners with the opposition in such important matters and the same pattern of behaviour. I think that the Slovenian public has read it completely in Croatian behavior, we have said throughout Europe that it is an uncreditable act of an unworthy partner and these partners have proved themselves to be invaluable partners in politics. If I comment on today's obstruction, although it is a legitimate instrument, it is a continuation of an anarchist policy in this area. And among all I understand only Mr Jelinčič, who always behaves similarly and in this part is somehow too strong. He is parasitising in the political space, and because he is now a presidential candidate, he is aware that he can only take the votes of Mr. Türk and Mr. Gaspari, who are these opposition people. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u97	Well.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u98	They support and I hope that he will be paid to come into the second round, that he will be [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u99	Mr Jerovšek, hold on Please [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u100	Yeah, that's gotta be because there's a lot of politicized politics here. [[...]] And second, of course, it should be pointed out that in this case, more than 30 hours ago - I think 40 hours of delays on the Committee on Foreign Policy have been called upon by a whole bunch of some invitees and in fact it has been so that the holding of the meeting of the farce, as has already been highlighted. During the amendments themselves, it was even allowed to [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u101	Mr Jerovšek, I would ask that you do not repeat that scene that you were in the previous phase, and that you are not offensive. Mr. Gaber reacted properly and felt justified in feeling offended. Please be careful in your statements.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u102	Yes, I don't know, Mr President, I didn't read the pamphlet on the Committee on Foreign Policy at the time of the adoption of the amendments, which was a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an explicit violation. Now I must say that, even at this stage of coordination of this resolution, hugely positive solutions have been adopted, both from the Engineering Organisation of Slovenia and some of the opposition amendments, actually in a constructive direction, and I must say that, of course, the apparent abolition of the autonomy of the university is totally unjustified. I must also say that it was a fundamental direction and, as has also been agreed, how to achieve the objective mentioned above: that the studies will be as qualitative as possible, that higher education teachers will carry out a quality study programme in order to participate in the Bologna programmes, the Bologna process. A supplement was also adopted, which I myself proposed that, if possible, future approaches to the international evaluation of programmes and the quality of the teaching process. Because, my former colleagues, who are professors and some even already in the status of academics in technical and natural schools, remind me that many do not have internationally recognised reference indices and that the international reference is extremely important because this would increase the quality, say, of the University of Ljubljana significantly and in a short time. For while there is no international evaluation, with ease some parasites in the shadow of quality. The other thing that is extremely important is that, with some of the principle solutions covered here, on the basis of which cooperation is to be made, the openness of Slovenian universities is to be achieved, an international exchange. As the former minister has repeatedly pointed out, it is now so closed, so clanically connected, that even if he had brought a Nobel laureate who would be willing to teach at the University of Ljubljana for a year, he is almost certain that these closed circuits would have rejected him. And, of course, that's unacceptable. Unacceptable in relation to students and to Slovenian society and to budgetary money, which is mostly used to finance universities, and from there the university can have autonomously with this money. I agree that there have been a great deal of attempts here to create extraordinary conditions in the field of higher education. This was a conscious bombing of the Slovenian public about something that was supposed to happen and that it was not really a desire to achieve what the Lisbon Strategy envisions and what it requires of us and our universities, higher education space, the Bologna process. In support of the Bologna programmes, at the time, the Ministry had called for €2 million in call for grants to universities and because, as already mentioned, the Secretary-General of the University of Maribor had led this team, which had so strongly opposed everything on ideological grounds, had neglected to work on the preparation of the programme for the submission of this application. And as it was written, 400 thousand euros, which would be usefully spent on student study programmes, went wrong. Maribor students are very damaged at the expense of ideological prejudices, which are [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u103	Mr Jerovšek, these things have nothing to do with the resolution [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u104	That's a lot, Mr. President. That's a lot to take in.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u105	Please don't talk specifically about some things and hurtful.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u106	The truth is never offensive, Mr. President. And I have to do this because we've been faced and because I come from the Styrian end and I get student questions: How are we going to do this now? Are we going to lose that money? Are we students from the University of Maribor guilty of this? And it is necessary to say here that the university must primarily have the interest of the student, the interest of the Slovenian society, and not the political ideological interests. And for this reason, once again, I stress: the irresponsible conduct of the opposition in accepting this, the irresponsible and irresponsible and politically challenged by the principles of democracy is that they imagine that they have domination in Slovenian higher education and science and are not willing to participate constructively in adopting better solutions in the field of education. I am convinced, however, that through this resolution there is a basis for the quality progress of Slovenian higher education, Slovenian universities. According to my references and my knowledge, many professors, including many friends, are aware of this and understand this and are opposed to the fact that some universities have so much politicized on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I also regret that the opposition colleagues have left this meeting room in such an extremely important document that is being discussed today by the National Assembly. In its 16 years, Slovenia has taken extremely important positive steps towards the development of a modern democratic Slovenian society. Europe speaks laudably about Slovenia, and is commended for it, for example, by the American Senate, which recently was able to be directly monitored and "preserved" by the Slovenian parliamentary delegation. Slovenia, with its entry into the European Union and then definitively demonstrated, in 2004, that not only geographically but also visually, it is at the heart of Europe, thus building on the values with which European fathers laid the foundations of the European Union. But all the segments of our lives have not been thoroughly touched in these 16 years, we have not all agreed in European terms and as Slovenian society deserves it. One of these segments is certainly higher education in the Republic of Slovenia. The resolution on the national programme of higher education of the Republic of Slovenia from 2007 to 2011 is the basis for implementing acts, namely for laws and other acts on the basis of which higher education must be thoroughly transformed or ventilated. What do we lack in Slovenia, I believe? We are missing really, as former Minister Jure Zupan has repeatedly pointed out, we lack a strong triangle, a strong link between higher education, science and the economy. In the resolution, I particularly support and particularly welcome the so-called regionalisation of Slovenian higher education, and I am sure that these orientations will be implemented in the short term or in this period, at least for which the resolution was written, in all Slovenian regions, and that, at least for those who are less developed, they will continue in a developmental sense. In Slovenia, many of the top quality professors, university teachers, scientists, researchers are also outside, as if because of the closed circles that my colleague Jerovšek spoke about earlier, the door was closed at home, and they were accepted outside with extended hands, and they actually became reference names in world science. But I'm sure we have as many bad university teachers as we do in all segments, and I've been doing a lot of wrong to the students myself for some time because I've accused them of not going to class. And why don't they go to class? After several discussions, I was told, and I believe that there is no point in listening to the inquality lectures that are taking place with such a methodology that we have heard many times before today - that the professor is simply turning around and reading sweeteners. I am strictly against many fictitious treaties, which are widely held at Slovenian universities and also at research institutes, and of which there are no results. The result is only that in these fictitious contracts a lot of Slovenian tax money is transferred. However, I do not have a headache if some or many Slovenian university teachers have contracts for a million euros a year with companies where they will actually invest their knowledge in the development of companies and, on the other hand, their experience, therefore, in practice, is passed on to students and younger generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well, first of all, I would regret, on my behalf, that the opposition has used a democratic instrument of obstruction both at the conclusion of the examination of the amendments on the parent committee and today in the plenary debate on the Resolution on Higher Education. I must say that in this case, if we look at the whole story, it is more unable to argue in any other way its opposition or conduct in dealing with this document. However, I think that at least the President should point out such an explanation as to why they will obstruct it, as the presidential candidate did, otherwise the president of the party who regularly uses demagogy and populism, the Victory of Jelinčič the Noblemeniti, who has said a truly noble quantification to all those who do not believe that this document is completely "bleached". I was also very surprised at the debate by the representative of the pensioner, who in a similar way discussed - that someone was sending a staff of higher education to paradise, not to mention anything else. I think there's a lot of mistaking about the facts. If you read the resolution and compare it with some documents - I went to see them thinking about this area and reforms elsewhere in Europe or in America - in fact, the resolution would be even more relevant to what the vision and what should have been actually done in the 21st century, in view of the changes, even present with what advanced countries are doing, which are constantly reforming and changing this area. In a document that I have just before me, IBM, as a corporation that we know is the most innovative, in a document from June last year entitled Our company's Opinion on Higher Education by 2012, notes that young generations, young people don't look at higher education anymore than some church with someone - we are sometimes very, very, very much, as I would say, with a large respekt, I apologize for this expression, with great honor or importance we have looked at universities, colleges and professors. Today, youth requires concrete material results, quality education, the education process itself, the quality of the supply of materials and become extremely difficult. They are probably aware that all of this is paid by current taxpayers or donors, if they are private universities, and that the money invested must also give back results and quality. I do not see when I read this resolution, at least in the part where the objectives are listed and where the objectives of the Single Higher Education Research and Development Law, no contentious issues and not even different views are set. These differing views are, in fact, very rare. And if we all agree that the changes are necessary, that we are actually lagging behind here, that our young country Slovenia has not yet experienced changes in this area, it is likely that all this procedure is a waste of time. And in fact, a lot of people, probably mainly in the economy, are asking themselves, as well as taxpayers, what are we actually doing here. I am also surprised by such a different approach to the consideration of both resolutions. In fact, the resolution on the R & D national programme went as smoothly as possible through this Parliament in 2005. A similarly coordinated and previously prepared resolution on the higher education sphere has had an incredible impact. With 250 amendments, with a general debate on the parent committee, with a preliminary discussion prior to the consideration of individual amendments, the debates were repeated, even repeated by different actors, but were not focused on the respective different views; all of these actors had previously coordinated and aligned to the stage, as also stated in the decision signed by the Vice-President of the Social Democrats, Prof. Luksic, but that until this stage agreed by the partners, it could be coordinated and adopted. We are now alone here, without at least those political actors that democratically represented the different views of higher education partners who suddenly decided to challenge this resolution with so many amendments. I don't know. In 2004, the largest, most prominent American universities and corporations demanded that the government, or society as a whole, be activated and should not allow the power they had in 2004 to do so, in the innovation championship, that they should by no means give up this power, and that they should do everything in this area, in the area of innovation, but also, of course, with the possibility of commercialising it, put into life that these powers must by no means be abandoned, because this means the end not only primarily in this area, but all the other benefits they have from it. Given that it does not appear to be the whole debate in terms of the real problem of individual parts of the resolution, this resolution is half as short as the resolution on the R & D programme and has experienced 50 times the number of amendments. Thus, the purpose of such a long resolution, 18 months, is absolutely clear here, and is the only way, despite this opposition's behaviour, that we can only accept it with sadness, but we cannot possibly postpone it by amending this resolution and then in the active work, in coordination, in discussions, in communication with all the actors in this area, in order to prepare a uniform and as harmonised and as uniformly as possible reform law, which will follow those countries already operating in the second round, not for the first time, as in Slovenia, and I will of course support this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u111	Thank you. Does the proposer want a word or on behalf of the government? Mr. Lesjak, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I must say that, on behalf of the Ministry, I can express my satisfaction and gratitude to all those who have participated, I think that in a rather constructive and fruitful debate that has improved the quality of the text of the resolution. This is true for such an entire period of coordination, which lasted almost a year, as well as for Parliament's hearing, and I am also expressing, on behalf of the Ministry, in fact, disappointment, if I may say so, that there has not been such a meaningful and fruitful debate even in further steps when we have experienced the departure of some higher education partners and also representatives of opposition parties. I can say that in the interviews I have had in the last period with representatives of individual higher education institutions and their universities, the situation is not as it was able to be understood and seen in some statements, and also today, because, according to the information I have, and also from the personal interviews, it is not only the University of Nova Gorica that the text of the resolution is acceptable, but the text of the resolution is also acceptable to the University of Maribor, until today, I think that no one has made this public and I think it is right and appropriate to stress this in particular, as well as to the individual representatives of the research sphere, which has been imaginably involved in the drafting of the resolution, and especially in its consideration of the resolution on higher education - it is also acceptable to them in their view. This also shows that these facts are likely to put in a different light some of the most recent statements of the Slovenian Student Organisation, which on behalf of higher education partners refused cooperation and only a resolution. However, it is important to draw attention to one very important detail, as regards the statements made in recent months in higher education, namely in another public opinion, their statements made on behalf of individual higher education partners have not been signed by higher education and research institutes and other partners, as was the case in the spring period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u113	Thank you. We are moving on to a discussion on the chapters and sub-chapters and six amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 26.9.2007. In view of the fact that New Slovenia has already spent time, the Slovenian People's Party will not discuss the amendments below, asking whether anyone can, Mr Lesjak, or who wants to discuss these six amendments at all. No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE - TO DETERMINATE THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE CORRECT LAW ON THE REFERENCE OF THE CRIME. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Lovro Sturm, Minister of Justice, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members of the National Assembly. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed a amendment to the Act on the correction of injustices in the reception of the National Assembly. In the light of the principles of fairness and equality, the draft law provides in particular for the elimination of time limits or deadlines for the submission of applications, allowing potential beneficiaries, who are a specific category of persons to be given special attention due to the distance of events or age, to apply for that law even after 31 December 2007. After that date, even the current time limit or deadline could no longer be applied for. The proposal to end the time limits was based on the position of the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of the Law on the Correction of Blame, which it forwarded to the Ministry of Justice in April of this year. In this regard, it is appropriate to note that the movement of new applications lodged under the provisions of the Law on the Correction of Blame in 2007 alone - the applications lodged this year - shows that, in the absence of the above-mentioned overlapping or definitive legal deadlines for the lodging of applications, a number of potential beneficiaries would not receive adequate satisfaction or at least this minimum and symbolic correction of the wrongs afforded by the law would not be carried out. In the period from 1 January to 20 September this year, 1850 cases have already been filed, all of which relate to the recognition of the status of former political prisoner or the recognition of the status of the victim of post-war illegal life. While these applications do not imply that all these applications or their majority are justified, they point to a certain trend in this area. Since it is necessary for political prisoners from a certain period or members of the victims of unlawful post-war deprivation of life to be given satisfaction in terms of recognition and dignity or recognition of dignity for victims of unlawful post-war deprivation of life, I believe that this proposal is both legally and morally justified. However, the new Article 35a lays down the conditions for scientific research in the field of political pressure between 1945 and 1990. These conditions should have been laid down both in terms of the protection of personal data and in terms of the protection of the privacy of victims in general, and also in terms of the potential political sensitivity of these investigations, so as to ensure a scientific objective assessment of the past period. In the light of the constitutional provisions of Article 2 of the Constitution on the rule of law and Article 34 of the Constitution relating to the provision of personal dignity, it should also be stated that, with regard to the implementation of the principle of proportionality in the field of the protection of personal data, the proposal takes into account the fact that personal data produced after 31 December 1966 may only be published if they are granted written consent by the persons to whom they relate or by one of their heirs in the first order of succession. The personal data generated in relation to political convictions prior to 31 December 1966 and the individuals to which it relates are dead are published officially or "ex-lege" as this is the most appropriate way to restore the dignity of the people to whom the State, with political processes or political convictions, has tried to withdraw this dignity in the wake of the very large monitoring of the media, which at that time gave these convictions undue attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u115	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. You've received the committee's report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! "We must not forget our past, but we must face it and act accordingly." These are the words written in the last issue of the magazine Ali, in an interview that is about the postwar Slovenian history. The act on the correction of injustices, which we are already amending for the second time in this mandate, is facing our past and is also trying to take appropriate action to correct the injustices committed during that period to the greatest extent possible. It is therefore necessary to provide research activities to enable them to explore and evaluate the period in a qualitative manner. On the proposal of a new 35a. the articles will be able to transmit such data to users in the public sector for the purpose of carrying out scientific and research work or statistical purposes without the written consent of an individual or an heir. Users investigating and processing this data will have to obtain written consent from individuals or their heirs for the publication of personal data. If they wish to publish personal data of already deceased individuals created before 31.12.1966, consent will not be required. Users will have to ensure adequate protection of personal data, but first they will have to demonstrate that they actually need data for the activities listed by law. However, the second amendment introduced by the amendment to the law is the abolition of the time limit, which means that the possibility of filing new claims to remedy the injustices committed between 15 May 1945 and 2 July 1990 to political convicts and prisoners and to victims of post-war unlawful deprivations of life remained completely open. Otherwise, the deadline has been extended several times, and we have extended the deadline in the previous amendment of the law in 2005 until the end of this year, but the Constitutional Court's decision and the trend in practice suggest that it would be unnecessary to set a deadline and limit the exercise of the right. Despite the fact that the commission for the correction of injustices by the sector has already resolved around 13,000 claims at the time of its existence, the applications are still coming. How the majority of claims have not been resolved since the bad decade when the law on the correction of wrongs was passed is probably a number of reasons. One of them may also have been distrustful of the then commission, and perhaps just in recent years people have been more courageous to start exercising their rights. They had not been able to speak for a long time in Slovenia alone because they were afraid of the rematch of their bloodstains and their thinkers. Many of these have taken the truth to their graves because for their own safety and safety, they have not been able to speak publicly about the injustices that have been done to them. Indemnities are more or less symbolic, so it is difficult to find any sense here that the financial consequences will go enormously into the state budget. Usually these people don't care about money, but it's either recognition or proof that they were victims of revolution or totalitarian violence. Thousands of applications are the stories of second-class citizens who witness the dark side of their lives. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposed changes, because we believe that this will somehow bring back respect and honor to people who have lost them in difficult times after injustice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the amendment of the Law on the Correction of Blame and the treatment of this by means of a reduced procedure. Regardless of this or precisely because we have already fixed the deadline several times, it is necessary to remove the slippages in the Law on the Reparation of Wrongdoings. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are of the opinion that, in the introduction of the basic law and in the setting up of the commission and throughout the implementation of this law, it is too little for these procedures to happen faster to better inform them of their rights, so it is unacceptable that they should not be given the opportunity to exercise their right to redress. Many of the beneficiaries are doomed to fate, hurt by the pain they have endured for decades after the war, many still in fear or ignorance do not think that the law applies to them, whether they dared not believe that after so many decades, however, it is possible, at least symbolically, to eliminate the injustice that has occurred to them or their ancestors. Most of these are older people, many of whom live in remote places, lonely, and need time to make decisions. After all, the Constitutional Court has already warned that the time limits are not in accordance with the Constitution. We therefore support the amendment of the law, which removes the time limits for lodging applications, so potential beneficiaries will also be able to submit applications after 31.12.2007. We are also convinced that it is necessary to allow the historical profession, with as few complications as possible, to deepen into research into those post-war cases and even in such a way that satisfaction, I would say, to those who have been unjustly and unjustly convicted. That is why we will support this amendment in all segments of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u119	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of 26.9.2007. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. I'm opening applications. Anyone who wants to discuss it, please sign in. Mrs. Bebler, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats has tabled the same amendment in the first part of Article 7 in order to add the word "users" to the word "public sector". Such an amendment was also tabled by a group of SDS members and so on and supported by this amendment on the working body. So as far as this part of the amendment is concerned, we also support it. However, the Group of Social Democrats has tabled further amendments to Article 35a. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u121	Mrs Beblereva, we are under the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Correction of Blame.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u122	Yeah, I'm talking about him.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u123	About Article 7?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u124	Yeah, 7th. And I say that this amendment, when the word link 'in the public sector' is added, we support me because there was the same content as the amendment of the Social Democrats. Then we tabled further amendments to the second and fifth paragraphs of Article 35a. Then I'd like to come by, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u125	Mrs Beblereva, we have only one amendment to one article, Article 7 and the amendment to this article. And this one is open to debate. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u126	Well, I wanted to talk about it, so you interrupted me, and I thought there was some kind of misunderstanding, so I came to an explanation. Well, the proposed novel introduces a new chapter on historical statistical and other research activities that allows relevant investigators and researchers or their institutions to collect, process and publish personal data for statistical, scientific and historical research purposes. However, we are convinced that such personal data should only be published on condition that the injured person has given written consent, but if such a person has already died, such consent should be given to at least one of his heirs in the first order of succession. We have therefore tabled an appropriate amendment, which is essentially identical to the provisions already in force in the Personal Data Protection Act, which is already an exception to the principle that the use of personal data is prohibited in contravention of the purpose of their collection. In doing so, we would like to point out that, in a democratic Europe, there is a trend in the creation of rules on the protection of personal data, privacy and personal rights in the direction of increasing standards of protection, and we have ratified the Convention on the Protection of the Individual in connection with the automatic processing of personal data, which, in particular with regard to databases containing personal data for statistical or scientific research purposes, has been ratified by our Constitution since 1994, specifically states that in no case should there be any danger of violating the privacy of the data subjects concerned. We are therefore convinced that the person concerned is still the owner of his personal data and that only by the written consent of that person or his or her heir may these personal data be published, even if it is scientific research, statistical and historical discussions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u127	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss Article 7? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. Let me first of all point out that perhaps many do not recall that this was the law that was adopted in Parliament by a full consensus. Together it was prepared by then government and opposition parties and if you want to - as you like to call - spring parties and customers of continuity. So talking about having different views and bad intentions about him at the time or today will not hold. At the time of the amendment, however, I would like to stress the fact that it is not right or possible to violate the constitutional principle on the protection of personal data set out in Article 38, in the interest of the general interest, as stressed by the Government and the Minister. Freedom of scientific creation, statistical research and history can be achieved without the publication of names and surnames. The publication of names and surnames can only aim at personal rehabilitation. This is certainly important and justified, but it is linked to the interests and views of the affected person or his family. Therefore, this issue, which must be affected by the right of decision-making, is not possible with full names and surnames and other generals who designate an individual, to publish it without their consent being given, irrespective of whether such or other time is set when this is possible. We have looked at the Government's reference to certain constitutional articles and we do not understand this reference. The right to personal dignity and security must also, of course, be ensured today, not only in the past. The protection of privacy and personal rights is also linked to the publication of a name and surname without personal consent and with the protection of personal data. What would benefit or harm article 53 on marriage and family and article 59 on freedom of science and art are simply difficult to understand. And we find it hard to believe that all these articles can weigh the importance of Article 38, which speaks about the protection of personal data. We also asked the Minister of Justice at the meeting of the home working body on these solutions, what is the reason why the Government decided on 31.12.1966 as a deadline for the publication of the data before that date without the consent of the affected person. The Minister explained that, after 31.12.1966, there had been a significant reduction in the repression in the political and judicial sphere and that a gradual strengthening of the rule of law had been carried out. I am personally pleased with the Minister's conclusion, as we are used to many times from the government coalition and to hear about 45 years, as if there were no differences at that time, no progress, and speak less and more unobjectively about the whole period. Nevertheless, without wanting to talk about it more broadly, let me point out that all the theories and knowledgeers of criminal law in Slovenia have different periods of political repression. Anyone who wants to read the article When the hooky crosses appear, which was published in Del on 11 September 1993, which shows that political repression in Slovenia has been substantially limited since 1953. The setting of such dates is therefore useful, but also work that depends on its own definitions. Finally, if we take into account certain features of the Law on the Correction of Blame, namely that the status and material compensation are decided by the Government Commission, that it is not necessary to explain its positive decision that there is no complaint against a positive decision, that only those who have not been recognised as having been granted status and rights, that there has been a number of questions about the decision criteria of this Commission, and that this Commission, at least I remember, has never given a comprehensive report on the number of its decisions, the basis of those decisions and the recognised years of retirement and compensation. However, it is particularly difficult to say that, due to the composition of the Commission, people have not been able to apply because, as far as I know, the President of this Commission has been operating since 1995. That is why it would be good and right, and that is what we have pointed out to ministers, if we also received comprehensive information and a report on this committee on these sensitive issues to see whether the comments on the Commission are justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I am pleased that these changes, which in fact mean some decent solution to the issues that Slovenia has been dealing with for many years. If we look at the facts themselves, including the latest events that have taken place with us in connection with the exhumation of the victims, of course this cannot be proud of us. Of course, a country that has a serious purpose to do so in a dignified way with everything that has not been good cannot afford it. It took a long way to go before we came up with a law that met international standards, and we wonder if it really took so many words, so many obstacles, when, in fact, we could have done it 12-13 years ago and closed the chapter of history. If we really face the truth, the one who actually saves one side or the other without unnecessary tension. About the amendment itself and this. I myself believe that we have sufficient protective mechanisms in the Personal Data Protection Act, so that these standards, which are somehow mentioned to them, are protected. I believe that these amendments, which are in the amendment, would further impede procedures, as well as research into past history. We believe that the provisions without amendment alone are sufficient to provide an adequate basis for dealing with the things that need to be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Mr Potts discussed much wider than the contents of the amendment tabled. I'll try as hard as I can to hold on to the contents of the amendment. I believe that the amendment is unfounded, because in these cases, which the amendment is talking about and which this article is talking about, we cannot talk about the fact that someone is exercising some right or some justification, but rather that the injustice that has been done to people is being abolished. And of course, injustice will not be removed by saying this in publications designed for research activity in an anonymized form, but it will be removed after these people with names and surnames are listed as those against whom the injustice has occurred. These people were publicly, at that time after the war, and also in ex-judicially mounted trials, publicly discredited in publications, by sounding, in cities, burned, publicly exposed to shame, as the worst criminals, enemies of the people and so on, and this was all recorded in the publications and also written in the means of research at that time. Even then, it was a research activity where these people were thus branded. And if we want these people to be rehabilitated and the injustices that have been caused to them to be eliminated, then we need to write them down in the same way, even in the publications, not that they are some anonymous people who have had something happen to them. If we want them to be wronged, then this is how it's supposed to be done. This is a specific matter and it is not a common matter where protection rules, so how would I put it, personal data and so on come into force. [[...]] And once again, I would like to point out that when we talk about the elimination of injustices, we need to separate the elimination of injustice from the apology that someone demands. And here I would also like to refer to the fact that this deadline in which these applications can be applied is now over, precisely because it is not an excuse which is linked to a certain period in which an individual can enforce this apology, but it is a substantial more. This is about injustice and, of course, we can't put the blame on our hands. Whenever this issue arises, this injustice must be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u133	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Secretary, would you like to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u134	Thank you, Mr. President. First, something about the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 7 of the bill. I would like to point out that the government does not support this amendment. It is not supported because the proposed provision of anonymised data for the purposes of historical research would only allow the production of a type of statistical bulletin which would not in itself help to objectively assess that period of severe political pressure. Moreover, in the work relating to the publication consents concerning the deceased political prisoners, it would in no way help to restore their dignity. Since political prisoners have been persecuted and punished by the State in its official or official capacity, it is also appropriate to restore dignity by official action. In view of the possible concerns of Members that in theory someone could misuse the personal data referred to in Article 35a, I should point out that an amendment to the first paragraph of this Article has been adopted as regards the fact that the data will only be transmitted to users in the public sector. In addition, this Article contains safeguards to provide information to users who actually carry out scientific research or statistical work or process data and who must demonstrate that they need it for statistical, scientific and historical research purposes. Let me say something else about the constitutional concern expressed in the debate so far, and it is estimated that the constitutional provisions relating to the protection of personal data prevent the new law from being published in the historical investigations of victims who were affected by the current authorities, with full name and surname, and that their heirs should be allowed to do so until 1966. If these victims are still alive, their consent is required in any case. On the one hand, we weigh the commitment to the protection of personal data under the Constitution; on the other hand, we weigh the principle of the rule of law set out in Article 2 of the Constitution, which also contains the principle of fairness, and we also weigh Article 34 of the Constitution, which speaks of the right to personal dignity. This is not about personal dignity that was violated at the time, but about any personal dignity that would be violated by heirs and that personal dignity that should be repaid to former victims, for the right to personal dignity goes to the deceased. This weighting needs to be done. And the government is convinced that there are no constitutional concerns about this. To illustrate, though, let me say, for a better understanding, a few examples. We have recently gathered at a silent memorial ceremony, with which the rest of us have spent some time and have shown respect for the deceased Dr. Črtomir Nadet, who, as you know, was executed after the war in unknown circumstances on the basis of the judgment of that time. That was 60 years ago. On the day of his execution, his mother, when she found out about it, committed suicide after, of course, being driven out of the house where she had lived and lived and had to seek refuge elsewhere. The process, which was then directed against a group called the Nagoret group, was a process that had been cut off in memory for many. For it did not happen only in the court; it also happened outside the court; it was transmitted through the loudspeakers; and it was constantly renewed through the media of those days, especially through the radio and through the diaries. On the other hand, there have been many cases of victims dealt with by the government's commission for the correction of injustices, and these cases have so far been 17,000, involving people who have been affected in a smaller local environment and who have received in the local environment such or even worse humiliations in local newspapers, in assemblies of the then countrymen, in rallies, in meetings, in local radio stations or in other local ways. Everywhere they were listed by name and surname, they were given things that weren't real, and they were read about things that were fake. And today, then, it would not be possible to tell the following ideas that were expressed in the debate, in scientific research, that the convicted one and this one was wrongly convicted and completely rehabilitated and that the wrong was done to him. Of course, that's hard to understand. When we weigh back on one side the publicity and today's demand that this do not come [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Of course, it's unacceptable. Let me also illustrate this in the case of Dr. Črtomir Nadet again. When a request or proposal was made to his house in Mirje 15 in Ljubljana years ago, he is, of course, a competent administrative authority, the Ljubljana Institute for Cultural Heritage, which he gave to historians. Historians have only said this: We have official information that Dr. Črtomir Events was convicted, was fully and completely rehabilitated in 1991, but this information was not publicly presented to historians. Thus, historians could only find what they were, and of course they expressed doubts. And there were completely incomprehensible complications, which, fortunately, eventually resolved, so that the memorial mark was erected into the house and placed. However, this tells us how important it is for the historical profession to publish in research that deals with the period up to 1966 the specific names of people who were then victims of political repression. The then political system is, we must not forget, but it was completely different from today. So allow me to read to you further some views of the Constitutional Court that no one will think that these are my personal views as a minister or a government position. These are the views of the Constitutional Court, and we can certainly all agree that these are the views that we must all respect, but certainly the National Assembly, because the Constitutional Court is only the highest body for the protection of human rights. Thus, the Constitutional Court, to say the least, has been defined until the former political system in a number of important decisions. The Constitutional Court notes that all those living in the former country have been subjected for decades to a permanent and systematic threat to human rights and fundamental freedoms and have been deprived of fundamental human rights and freedoms, in particular for freedom of expression, the right to political integration, the right to free economic initiative and other rights. The Constitutional Court also notes that, since 1945, it has been a country whose current authority, after the end of the war, carried out mass killings of former military and then political opponents, legally unacceptable criminal proceedings involving capital punishment, illegal confiscation of property, the inability and liquidation of political parties, contrary to its own legal order, which has caused the victims to have a legitimate fear of life in the event of their stay in such a country. Generally known and previously mentioned circumstances in the then Yugoslavia, the total legal uncertainty of all politically suspect persons, including life-threatening persons, the removal of political opponents by pseudo-legal procedures and by means of falsified legal means, the systematic and reckless implementation of the intimidation of the affected and similar repressive measures by the current political authority and its state apparatus, not only against political opponents, but also against individual government officials, and indirectly against the entire population, were burdened by severe circumstances, not hoping to return to or escape from their homeland. The Constitutional Court has determined that in these cases, it has also not been a matter for individual excesses by the State authorities, but for the concerted and political functioning of the current criminal courts and administrative bodies. The courts were subordinated to the administrative apparatus and to the monopoly Communist Party. These attitudes are so much that I try to read only the most essential, even because we are somewhat limited in time. The repressive measures carried out by the authorities at the time by means of a criminal court are of particular interest to the criminal court, because they raise questions about the role of the judiciary in the system of uniformity of power and the involvement and pressure of the Communist Party on judges, either directly or through the assistance of other state authorities, in particular the political secret police, the prosecution and the then Ministry of Justice. [[...]] At that time, the Constitutional Court explicitly addressed this in a number of cases of individual criminal post-war laws, in particular revolutionary laws. Let me take this final assessment of the Constitutional Court in decision 574/29, where it notes that more recent legal and historical research of primary, that is, original sources from historical archives show that the courts of today were not independent, independent and impartial authorities. It was, according to quotes from that time, a tool for the revolutions of whips in the hands of the people, an effective tool for the destruction of human pests, a fighting authority for the persecution of a class enemy, subordinated to an administrative apparatus and a monopoly Communist party. The tool in the hands of the Communist Party, in particular for the systematic confiscation of property under its revolutionary programme. Or, once again, the position in point 36 is historically recognised, so the Constitutional Court has used the judiciary for its political purposes. The Constitutional Court also stated in a decision assessing the moral political appropriateness that, of course, the former authorities carried out a systematic violation of human rights by 1990, but it is true that in the 1960s there was a change that these severe repressions, some of which we have just read from this period, that there was no such severe repression. Other more sophisticated methods were then used by the Authority and a shift in the use of repressive measures over 60 years can also be observed in some places during this period. This is also based on the proposed amendment to the law, which limits one and the other periods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u135	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 7 and the amendment to this Article? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, the amendment will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 23. Period of the day - This is first of all a proposal for a law on amendments to the law on legal examination. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 13 Members, with the first-signed Mr Mirano Potrče, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Marolt, Secretary of State at the Ministry, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly for adoption a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on legal examination. Following an examination of the state of play in the field of traineeships for judicial functions and judicial professions, the main reasons for the adoption of this proposal are the following. Firstly, aligning the condition of professional competence with the new professional titles obtained under the so-called Bologna Study Programmes. Secondly, most importantly, the shortening of long waiting periods for entry into the judicial traineeship, which are being extended each year, despite an increase in the number of traineeships in the courts. Thirdly, the provision of employment needs for persons who speak Italian or Hungarian for the purpose of ensuring the functioning of the courts, in addition to Slovenian, in Italian or Hungarian. If we go to point one. With regard to the need to harmonise the condition of professional competence to train under the Law on legal examination with new professional and scientific titles obtained under the so-called Bologna Study Programmes, we believe that the current professional title "University Graduated Lawyer" is comparable to the professional title "Master of Law" obtained after the completion of the second stage of a five-year study. In view of the specific nature of the work carried out in the framework of functions and professions, it is also necessary to establish a single framework of fundamental legal skills to be acquired through Bologna study programmes and to meet the needs for further training and judicial work. Secondly, the following measures are proposed to shorten the very long waiting periods for admission to judicial traineeship: as a first measure, it is proposed to shorten judicial traineeships from 12 to 8 months in force. The overall training period during the traineeship shall not change and shall remain for two years. Secondly, and most importantly, the waiting period for judicial traineeships is also sought to be reduced by adjusting the training prior to the conduct of the legal examination. Because of the long waiting periods, many candidates have been employed and have begun to gain practical experience outside the judiciary before they are able to carry out judicial training. As a result, some candidates have gained so much practical experience that for them the exercise of judicial traineeship is merely a formal condition to be met for accession to a state examination. Therefore, we propose that the candidate be able to take a direct approach to the exercise of the legal examination after 31 months of working on legal works in the regular working relationship with full-time work in the court, in the State Prosecutor's Office, in the State Defence Office, in the Notary, in the Council of Justice, in the lawyer or in the Ministry of Justice. So for all the judicial authorities in a broader sense. However, the possibility of a direct examination approach is also proposed for other candidates who are in a regular working relationship with full-time, legal work at the Faculty of Law or at the University of Law or in another legal person, if such a regular working relationship lasts for at least 48 months, following a professional title obtained by a university lawyer or a law master. Nevertheless, I must point out that those persons who practice that practice outside the courts will also have to carry out certain compulsory forms of education, in particular attending hearings, attending seminars and other forms of education. And there's a third reason. In order to ensure the employment needs of those who actively speak Italian or Hungarian and thus ensure the functioning of the courts in addition to those in Italian or Hungarian, we assess in the competent areas that it is necessary to add the possibility of creating special order and special places for these persons in the areas of these courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u137	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Maria Possonec will present the position of the Group of the People's Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to continue where the Secretary of State has concluded to establish traineeships for members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. I could only say that after a long time it was the only measure for which it was not necessary to fight. Lawmakers themselves have made sure that everything is as necessary to enable the implementation of Articles 11 and 64 of the Constitution. All we can do is say hello. Thank you very much for the lawmakers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! The management and access to the state legal exam are extremely attractive in Slovenia, we can say as much as possible. According to the data of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana at this time, the judicial traineeship, based on the timing of the application, is being approached by candidates who applied in 2000/2001. According to the Court, these are all those candidates who have an average score of less than 8 and a half, i.e. those who have an average of 8 and 8 and a half. So that at this point these candidates would be over 250. And according to this court, those who apply today should wait almost 20 years. In accordance with the law, the judicial traineeship shall be conducted in the High Courts. The number of seats for judicial trainees shall be determined by means of sub-legislative acts in individual higher courts. The total number of traineeships in all courts is 464, of which 208 seats are provided for traineeships who enter into service in the courts and 256 for traineeships who perform judicial training in the framework of education provided by the employer or volunteer. In addition, a number of candidates have been declared for the conduct of judicial traineeships, which far exceeds the number of seats envisaged. Despite the increase in traineeships with amendments to the regulations, several candidates, more than vacant traineeships, apply to traineeships each year. The number of candidates waiting for a judicial traineeship to take place on a priority basis is therefore increasing from year to year. All of this means that waiting periods are longer each year. Secondly, coordination is needed due to the so-called Bologna Reform or Bologna Study Programmes and new scientific titles. The amendment of the law under consideration is intended to solve both pressing problems. The walnut is, of course, very hard and will take a third time, or at least it will take longer. With regard to the new professional and scientific titles obtained under the so-called Bologna Study Programmes, it is assumed that with the current title, the university graduate lawyer is comparable to the professional title of the Master of Law, which is obtained after the completion of the second stage of a five-year law study. This is reasonably comparable and follows the principles and systematic arrangements of the New Testament on Higher Education. This bill does not limit the approach to traineeship for university-graduate lawyers. As a short-term measure, the assessment of the state of the very long waiting periods shown for admission to judicial traineeships proposes to shorten judicial traineeships. A reduction from the current 12 months to 8 months is proposed, and it should be stressed that the overall training period during the traineeship does not change and remains for two years. It is estimated that the eight-month period is still long enough to obtain the necessary practical experience and is also comparable to the duration of judicial training abroad. In order to shorten judicial traineeships, which are urgently necessary in the event of long waiting periods, it is therefore necessary to amend the judicial traineeship programme. Notwithstanding the proposed deletion, training in the field of work or economics, which has already been defined as an alternative under the current regime, judicial trainees will have to carry out compulsory forms of education in both the labour and economic fields provided for under the applicable rules of the Rules of Procedure and the examination of traineeships. With a new proposal under consideration, it is possible to conduct judicial training in the criminal field both in the courts and in the national prosecutions. Such a measure will further burden the courts and increase the number of candidates who will be able to carry out judicial training. The proposal also tackles some other complexities or weaknesses of the current system that have entered a dead end, such as: easier access to the legal examination, the creation of special places for persons for Italian and Hungarian languages, covering the costs of the examination, how to act in the event of a repetition of the examination and so on. Due to the extremely complex situation and due to the long waiting periods for access to a legal examination, any idea or any solution is welcome. That is why we will support this amendment that is ahead of us in the SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u141	Thank you. Dr. Mark Pavliha will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with a team, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I may be repeating myself, but once again, I'm saying that a lawyer without a judicial exam is like you without a church. This would probably be agreed upon both by priests and by lawyers, but it is already so that the grapes are too high that they are often crossed and unfavourable. But a legal exam for most lawyers opens the door to profit and to bread. Therefore, we must not underestimate it and treat it with all seriousness and create such legal bases as to ensure, for the first time, transparency, secondly, quality, thirdly, the speedy possibility of carrying out this examination and, of course, fourthly, equality. Unfortunately, this novel does not fully meet these objectives. That is why, in the Group of Social Democrats, we have also requested general treatment, which is not excessive, in order to achieve improvements in the second and third readings and these urgent changes, I stress the urgent changes, even in the end, we accept as much as possible. At the beginning of this year, the Ministry of Justice put forward a second document, a completely new version of the law, which has been given considerable critiques, both professional and other public opinion. That is why, according to our assessment, the minister has removed this draft from the scene and put it in a drawer instead of offering a kinder novel, which on the one hand takes into account the urgent starting points of the Bologna reform, on the other hand brings some advantages and on the third, as well as some weaknesses; if it does not try to introduce them, it does not remove them. And let me say a few words about it. Looking at a comparative legal review, we can be disappointed that there is little we can do to help ourselves. Why? Since the regime for the conduct of a legal examination or a judicial examination, according to the domestic examination, is very, very different in the different countries of the European Union; it is a pity that we cannot achieve a greater degree of harmonisation here. In particular, this approach is that they have a special status as well as a special regime for those who are trained for so-called judicial professions, i.e. judges, prosecutors, lawyers, notaries, lawyers. And that's where the problem comes in. If we hurry for a moment in certain favoured professions, namely the State Prosecutor's Office, including the Court and for example the Ministry of Justice. Previously, we have heard that it is possible to bypass the examination training with one of the listed authorities or legal persons, which is good, which is likely to reduce backlogs to some extent. However, it is not good that certain professions or certain institutions are discriminated against. Let me be more specific. As we have heard, we can get all the conditions for us to join the exam by working with the State Defence Office, the Prosecutor's Office, the Court or the Ministry of Justice within two years and eight months. What about legal services in other ministries, in the National Assembly, with other state bodies? I am fully responsible for the fact that lawyers working in legal services, for example, in the various legal services of the Ministry of Transport, carry out the same complex legal work as their colleagues and colleagues at the Ministry of Justice. Think about it. We still have time. Why just the Justice Department? Not to speak of our legal and legal service in the National Assembly, which, so to speak, blesses, burns, everything we do here legally. And if we look at another group of legal persons who need to be employed for four years or 42 months in order to be able to join the exam, the question also arises to me whether only law schools or law schools are the ones that provide enough knowledge. In fact, you need to know that in some colleges there are quality legal cathedrals, which of course include lawyers who work there, learn, study and probably are not in a worse position than their peers in other legal persons, so I suggest to the Ministry that it may reconsider the urgent equivalence of these legal persons or services, if I may say so domestically. At the same time, it should also define legal works, which are also written in other legal works. What legal acts? This, of course, may be a somewhat inappropriate notion that a person will not later be rejected for judicial examination, because he is not doing much of the legal work. The next area that we think is problematic is education, education and, of course, payment for this education. I'm told the costs are covered by the state. Really? Or the whole thing? The other thing is even worse, which, of course, we cannot solve with this novel, but we can solve systemicly with other regulations is the problem that such education is not already in law schools, during pre-graduate studies. So, again, I hope that most lawyers who finish law school can't even write a simple CV, let alone applications for employment, lawsuits, judgments and other legal documents. Of course, it's not their fault, it's the professor's fault. Our legal system or education system is still based; this can be confirmed by colleagues and colleagues who have studied law; by the memory of huge amounts of data on such book collections and not on problem solving. Then, in the end, with the exception of bright exceptions, we get a lawyer who has a photographic memory who can recite all the articles of a certain law, and then say the Bond Relations Act into the Bond Code, and the issue is here. Because 931 is no longer 931. But let's say it's 942. Such an approach will not lead us far and my experience from abroad is that students are already at the time of their pregraduate studies learning what they need for the so-called "Bar Exam" in English or for a legal exam. Perhaps even a few words about the novelty provision that a trainee who, despite a promise or agreement after the completion of the traineeship and a completed examination, does not have to decide on the job, must return the total gross salary he received during the traineeship. So far, it's been a net salary. We have two doubts about this provision, the first thought is to actually take away everything from someone, perhaps even in the part he deserves. Believe me, regardless of the previous criticisms of law students, there are several trainees who write such solid decisions that the judges under them simply sign and move on. Which means that, in fact, these trainees are doing up to a degree their work for which they deserve at least a partial reward. So that I think that the previous regime for the return of net wages was better and that I am not even in the social situation of students, that there is a future for young people and, of course, we could list them. I also believe that our current system is too geared to feeding, in connotations, certain privileged state authorities with highly qualified lawyers, and I think that courts should also enable more flexibility in the recruitment of courts, as in businesses, so as to be able to obtain the best personnel and also to resolve judicial backlogs. We also warmly recommend that the Ministry, the proposer, examine the State Council's comments - they have worked very hard, they are on 10 pages and I do not think we can just move them, they need to be examined and what solutions are appropriate. To me, at first glance, they seem more or less all very, very important. Finally, what is most important, try to find a real correlation between the witnessing novelty of the law and during the shortening of waiting periods. At this point, I don't know if this has been said, but as stated in the introductory explanation, a young lawyer will have to face a waiting period that is longer than ten years, somewhere in 2020, which is a disaster. I am just wondering how the European Commission has failed to slap us in this area or not in the European Commission in these years, and I think that such a case may even happen to be rumbled at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, this simply cannot be the case and we must shorten these times, but it is necessary to determine whether such a legislative intervention is effective enough. Because of all of this, we have a great problem in the Group of Social Democrats, or to support the novel in this form, but we have not lost hope. I hope that, on the basis of our general debate, the Ministry will draw up appropriate amendments and that we will then be able to collectively achieve such a change in the law that will actually help young lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u143	Thank you. Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u144	Presidents, government representatives, Members and Members of Parliament! The law on legal examination shall be governed by the traineeship after the professional title obtained by a university graduate lawyer, for the purpose of training for the performance of judicial functions, for the functions of the state prosecutor, for the profession of lawyer and notary, or for the performance of other works for which the law requires a legal examination. Such a dictatorship is enshrined in Article 1 of the current law on legal examination. The law primarily governs the traineeship of lawyers in court and other judicial authorities, and when we read it, we get the feeling that every lawyer gets an internship in court immediately after graduation without any major difficulty, as this is just a condition for conducting a legal examination, but that is not the case in real life. In spite of the annual increase in traineeships, several candidates are registered as job vacancies. priority lists and candidates with a higher average come faster in line, which means that candidates with a lower average can wait up to 20 years for the traineeship. Just shortening waiting periods is one of the main reasons for the amendment of the Law on Trainee State Examination. Following the proposed amendment, the traineeships are reduced from 12 months to 8 months and the total period is still two years. Despite the suspension of training in economic and labour courts departments, trainees will have to carry out compulsory forms of education in this area. In the New Slovenia Group, we are pleased that access to the examination will now be possible for those who have not conducted judicial traineeships, but have gained at least 32 months of working experience in the regular working relationship with the judiciary, the court, the State Prosecutor's Office, the defence, the lawyer, the notary or the Ministry of Justice, or have been regularly employed for four years in the Faculty of Law or in legal matters, in the State Administration and in the administration of local communities, in the legislative body and in the legal works of the legal person. Some candidates for exams gain sufficient experience from their work, and because of their low average rate, they are not in line for apprenticeships, and because of the lack of traineeships, they fail to meet the conditions for access to the examination. There is often no real correlation between college evaluation and later performance, so many times it happens that good lawyers are very late in their judicial exams because they do not have a chance for judicial practice. The draft law also sets out a uniform framework of legal knowledge that is aligned with the Bologna Reform and the advantage for candidates who speak Italian or Hungarian in bilingual areas, while abolishing special priorities for lawyers and notary trainees. This novel improves the current position of lawyers waiting for judicial training. Nevertheless, in the future it would be appropriate to consider a comprehensive overhaul of judicial traineeships and the judicial examination itself, as the Council of State has pointed out in its opinion. For the judicial examination is carried out by many lawyers who have neither the purpose nor the desire to work in justice, and in some way are dissuading those who want to do so. The staff deficits in the judiciary are large, the "fate" of the case is increasing and the situation is on some departments at the border of control. In what way would we ensure that trainees with a judicial examination remain in court and that a re-examination of the judicial examination is a matter of professional discussion? In the New Slovenia Group, we certainly support the intention of the proposed New Law on the Legal State Exam. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u146	Mr President, Secretary of State, Government representatives, Members and Members of Parliament! In recent years, the enrolment of students in the legal universities of both universities has increased significantly in Slovenia. As a result, there are increasing numbers of lawyers who want to take a state legal exam after the study. The current system of traineeships is such that the legal examination lasts for two years, one year or 12 months of which is a compulsory judicial internship conducted in Slovenian courts. It is logical that, in view of the increase in the number of graduates and those interested in traineeships in court, the waiting period for traineeships has been unreasonablely extended and thus has also limited the possibility of accessing or conducting a state legal examination. The traineeship shall be conducted in higher courts and the number of trainees shall be very limited. Although the number of traineeships has increased slightly in recent times, there has been no real demand. It is unacceptable, however, that today there are those candidates who applied for this in 2001 or 2002. This extension of the waiting period is unacceptable, as individuals with an average rating of more than 8 may in fact never take a traineeship and join a state legal examination. This is not only a loss to individuals, but also to society, since we all know that a good average evaluation during the study period, as a criterion for a faster approach to a state legal exam, does not yet guarantee that an individual will be a good lawyer. In our opinion, however, there is certainly no shortage of good lawyers in the courts and in the prosecution. The proposed amendment to the law brings about the harmonisation of the condition of professional competence for traineeships in line with the new Bologna study programmes. The key objective of the novel is to shorten waiting periods for admission to the judiciary. To this end, the novelty brings more novelties, including the reduction of judicial traineeships for eight months, the possibility of traineeships in the criminal field in the State Prosecutors' Offices and the possibility of accessing a state legal examination without judicial training. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we feel that the proposed solutions undoubtedly contribute to the reduction of waiting species. It also applies to solutions that benefit members of indigenous national communities in the Republic of Slovenia. We also support you in the Group of Members. When considering this novel, we would like to highlight what the Council of Justice wrote in its opinion. This advocates a system-wide different regime for traineeships and legal examinations, whereby training for judicial professions would differ from training for other categories of graduate lawyers. In this regard, we propose that the Ministry seriously consider possible solutions in this direction. If we follow up on the job offers published by companies a little bit, we see that most jobs, if not already required, at least provide for a state legal examination as an advantage. Of course, questions arise as to why. It is a matter of fact or belief that lawyers are more qualified with a national legal exam. Of course it does. This is also a reason for the great pressure on the judiciary and on the state's legal exam. Of course, this raises the question of the extent to which an individual lawyer, through a state examination that operates in an economy, really uses the knowledge acquired. For this reason, it would be good to draw up a specific programme for those who want or need a state legal examination in other areas. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposed law certainly contributes to shortening waiting periods for judicial training and allows easier access to the conduct of a state legal examination. That is why we will also support the proposed law. However, any necessary and well-founded additions to the novel will, of course, be possible in the next stages of the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u147	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Please take into account in the calls that some have cancelled the speech and I will therefore skip the names on the list. Mr. Potts, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u148	Thank you very much. My colleague, Dr Marko Pavlich, has communicated the views of the Group to the proposal for a law and I also report that I will support the law. But I'd like to say two things about him. The bill is a typical content of the law, such as month after month, sometimes even day after day suggests the Ministry of Justice. Undoubtedly useful additions, but only supplements that do not fully solve problems do not promise them, but they do mean a supplement that you cannot object to. And on that finding, I would ask the Ministry of Justice, although there is no more time, but let's say one year more, that after all the useful additions that it has proposed to us so far, it is only slowly starting to think about more comprehensive solutions. And the question of traineeships, the question of the state's judicial legal exam, is one such issue. There is no doubt that we need a legal state exam, but we must probably arrange it in a way that will not prevent legal studies from being completed in some way and will allow a lawyer, a graduate university lawyer with a second degree, under a new Master of Law, to be able to carry out difficult judicial work in court, in law, in the prosecution, in notariat and in the ministry, and so on. If we get a little more permeability with the solutions proposed, and believe that we will, it is beneficial. But the problem will remain, the problem will remain for many young graduates or undergraduate lawyers who will not be able or will wait in some cases for years and years or until they are mature and will not prepare it. I therefore propose that we really consider how to address these issues in a more comprehensive manner, not just partial additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u149	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtizar Bebler, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Of course, I would also like to point out that I agree with all that our colleague, Dr Pavlih, has said in the introduction on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. However, I would like to point out that, given that I have been already in the previous mandates of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I have before me the fact that we have always met in Parliament with some of the novels that have patched up and complemented the existing solutions, but we have never witnessed any systemic approach. And it is true that in the undergraduate course today, students rarely encounter direct practical application of the law, and often the majority have no idea how a legal act is drawn up, i.e. some legal document. On the other hand, once again, the very practice that is intended to train a particular candidate for such practical application of the law continues in essence with a study of theory, is essentially to continue his studies in law school or law school. How would it be possible to tackle this problem more effectively? I believe that at some point all judicial institutions or judicial bodies should meet in a broader sense and also say what profile they actually use and also what these authorities can provide in the course and implementation of this practice, because we know that it is those who then enable the implementation of the practice for obtaining a legal examination. As far as I know, so far the Ministry of Justice has not addressed such a question in this way and this would certainly be an opportunity to do something in this direction. At the same time, when there are really no quality lawyers for work in the courts, the prosecution and elsewhere, those who have been excellent students of law and who want to be able to perform the scratch and the legal exam themselves, have worked for many years as a poorly paid labour force, I will just say, for example, to any lawyer, while many lose their will and motivation and, before going to practice for the state's legal exam, work in some other area, and thus spend potentially excellent lawyers, whom our justice and judicial authorities, in a broad sense, undoubtedly need. I would therefore, in fact, appeal that we address this issue systematically, so that we do not always have to coordinate and supplement something, but that we should put this whole matter on the table with some far-reaching expectation of impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Pavlich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President, again for your word. When I presented the position of our parliamentary group, I expressed myself roughly in such a way that this novel is difficult to support, which does not mean that we will not "put this novel down" in quotations, in second and third readings. With this we want to show our constructiveness, our willingness to make at least something better, but because we already have an opportunity to improve, because we have the possibility of amending the law and because we will not do it every day, we still appeal to you, Mr Secretary of State, who is probably more involved in this, but also to the Minister, to try to answer some questions properly. And here I return again to the equality of professions, I think this is worth considering, why only favouring, I don't know, the State Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Justice or the Faculty of Law, we have quality legal services in other or private institutions or in public institutions. Second, what we have not yet talked about today, since there was no time, is likely simply the conduct of the exam or its contents. In fact, when we talk to students and students, as well as with interrogators, we find that there is still too much disscription, too much data memory, and too little ability to solve problems, or too little, as it is now called, functional literacy. Therefore, we should consider, together with legal universities, legal associations - as you know - we have the Union of Law Associations of Slovenia, we also have student or movement of younger lawyers involved in this regard - to consider how to find synergies between the postgraduate study, which should be more problematic as soon as possible, problematicly oriented, and of course additional education - but here I mean not only a judicial exam or a legal state exam, but also other forms of postgraduate education, and from a master's degree to a doctorate. No one benefits if, at different levels and at ever higher levels, they already enjoy chewed-up food, and this is also reflected in cases such as the notorious criminal process in Cyprus, but some could also be listed. In short, in my own name, I will vote in favour of this novel today or tomorrow, but in good faith, that at least a few of our comments will be taken into account in the form of your amendments. As you know, it will be easier if the opposition submits them, I can predict their fate in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u153	Thank you very much. However, I would like to take the floor by inviting the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. I'd just like to try to sum it up for a while. I have listened very carefully to the opinions, initiatives, suggestions of Mr Pauli, as well as of other Members and Members. As far as this marriage is concerned. This law was adopted in 1994 by the National Assembly and was amended several times and supplemented in 1999 and 2003. In practice, we have found that these waiting periods have only been extended, are also extended, so we have also responded and prepared an amendment to this law with one fundamental and essential objective: to shorten these waiting periods and to allow young colleagues, fellow university-graduate lawyers to join the judiciary as soon as possible, either in court or to allow them to carry out a legal examination as soon as possible. Perhaps I would just like to repeat briefly, here are really three possible measures for young colleagues, young fellow students, to approach the legal examination as soon as possible: therefore, by reducing compulsory training in court from 12 months to 8 months. This practically means that within two years, instead of two or compulsory training instead of two candidates or candidates, three candidates/candidates can come to one place; it is said that this flow in the courts is increasing. Another way is to allow these so-called exceptions to be allowed by the amendment of the law, so-called exceptions, is to stress that those who work, again, in the judiciary in a broader sense, i.e. in the courts, the judiciary, the prosecution, the judiciary, the lawyer, the notary or the Ministry of Justice, that, after a 32-month regular working relationship, they will also be able to join the legal examination after the compulsory form of training in the judiciary. And the third way is the one that was found to remain after 48 months. Why did we decide to make that distinction? Just for a simple reason. As Mr Pavlich asked why lawyers work at the Ministry of Transport, in this work they should not be equal to university-graduate lawyers or should not be equal to those working on justice. Our thinking or practice is as follows. Our colleagues and colleagues at the Ministry of Justice are fully working and dealing solely with justice: either at the Directorate of Law, where they are preparing procedural judicial legislation or substantive legislation, that is substantive procedural legislation, that is to say the law, which is then enforced in practice by the judicial authorities and other legal entities, is: lawyers, notaries, judges, prosecutors, lawyers. Colleagues and colleagues working at the Directorate of Justice - the name itself says, are exclusively dealing with judicial issues and are concerned with the implementation of judicial legislation in the case of the Ministry of Justice. There is also an ever-increasing number of new legislation relating to justice and also working with it, it is said, implemented, for example, by the Law on Compensation of Victims of Crime, the Law on the right to a trial within a reasonable time and beyond. Afterwards, colleagues working at the Directorate for International Legal Assistance and International Cooperation are engaged in international legal assistance within and in the field of justice. Thus, international cooperation in criminal matters, international cooperation in civil matters, international extradition and other international legal assistance. Thus, it is only with justice that the employees of the Ministry, the employed university-graduate lawyers, the university-graduate lawyers work exclusively with justice or, if possible, a bit of caricature, "breathe" exclusively with judicial topics in their daily work and, of course, other matters within the framework of justice, within the framework of the European Union. So, it's about university-graduate lawyers, including notaries, lawyers, the prosecution and the defence, who have to work solely on judicial issues. Therefore, we estimate that it is only a reasonable, important and reasoned distinction that those who do not work with justice every day for eight hours a day, 40 hours a week, 170 hours a month must have an appropriate little longer practice. Of course, we will also consider your suggestions and initiatives in the future, as well as further suggestions. Now, with regard to studies, as mentioned above, undergraduate studies in law school and then judicial training. I personally agree that it would also be possible to have a broader professional debate in the legal profession in the future, how this could be comprehensively, if anything else could be upgraded, complemented by postgraduate education and training in law school. We are absolutely in favour of each such debate and of the exchange of views. And then, of course, there might be some more comprehensive solutions in the future. Now this payment or return of gross wages has also been mentioned. Why? Judicial trainees who have a working relationship in the courts are given eight months or now 12 months or 24 months ’ wages or the burden of Slovenian taxpayers. The judicial traineeship is actually intended for education and training for work. And, of course, those who then remain in court are said to be working in courts, prosecutors, lawyers, but it is also reasonable and understandable to allow them this education and training. However, the problem is that many of these young colleagues and colleagues who are employed in a court or prosecutor's office for judicial traineeships leave the judiciary or leave the courts, the prosecutions and go to others, as we all know, better paid services after their traineeships. Therefore, we estimate that it is a damage to the state to pay, it is said, at the burden of taxpayers we pay education and training; it is said that we pay their gross wages, because the salary is by the gross salary category, which burdens the budget, the budgetary user, is said, in this case, the court or the prosecutor's office. And we estimate that it is logical and reasonable that such an excellent candidate, an excellent associate who leaves justice, is obliged to repay it. For, as has already been pointed out, in the judiciary, we face a shortage of personnel for judicial professions, as noted in the Lukend project, that many of the judicial posts are unfortunately unsuccessful and must be repeated several times. With regard to the conduct of a judicial examination. As is likely to be known, a judicial examination or legal examination shall be carried out by means of a written task, which is a specific judicial document. The written task shall always be drawn up by the examination committee or by members of the types of Judges or Judges. Of course, there is also oral work, as has been established, so that there is also no or exam committee intensively cooperates with members and members of the examination committees. Also, some direction and principle should be that oral work should really be checked not only by memory, but only by theoretical knowledge, but also by practical knowledge and practical solutions. Of course, we will also take these initiatives into account, and we will try, or we will certainly pass it on to the members of our examination committee, to try to take as much of this into account in practice as possible. With regard to the law itself or the drafting of the law, as mentioned above, it could only be explained or replied to the Members of Parliament, Darja Lavtijar Bebler, that this amendment of the law was prepared in cooperation with the judiciary, in cooperation with the courts, in the first place, in cooperation with the higher courts, where the traineeship is also taking place, and, of course, in cooperation with the prosecution and the defence, as well as with the Bar and the Notary Chamber, since we also refer all the laws to them in the opinion and comments, and I would stress that the fundamental objective is to reduce the waiting period and allow young colleagues to join the legal examination as soon as possible. Of course, we will continue to examine the opinions and initiatives of the Council of State or the Commission of the Council of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Given that we still have time at our disposal, we will use the right set out in Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and will divide the rest of the time between Members and Members and, of course, the Government representative who will wish to do so. Please apply to all those who would like to discuss it further. We'll share the rest of the time accordingly. I'm asking you to sign up.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u156	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Just one more question to the Secretary of State, because he still has time. Indeed, I do not understand this logic the most, that workers or young lawyers at the Ministry of Justice may be privileged because they "breathe" with justice. However, they are in different areas or departments, which means they are not dealing with a comprehensive problem. Besides, I don't understand if someone doesn't deal with justice once or maybe two years and eight months, then twice, three times or four times, they won't do that much more. In other words, what will a lawyer at the Ministry of Transport know after more than four years instead of two years and eight months, so this logic doesn't convince me and I'm just warning here. For I warn you that young people would not remember - and it is only right to remember this - to challenge the constitutionality of any of these articles in our constitutional court or even in Strasbourg, but to point out Article 14 of our Constitution. I don't think that the Ministry would risk anything if this spectrum of potential employers were to expand both in the first round, i.e. two years and eight months, as in the second - four years of experience, and then lawyers should carry the consequences when they go to the exam. If someone at the Ministry of Justice has learned more than in the National Assembly or the Ministry of Public Administration, capital society, well - if not, of course it is his problem. In fact, this logic would, in my opinion, further accelerate the reduction of these waiting days. And the second thing I would like to ask is, can you be more specific about who participated in the preparation of the novel, because we have information that not all of them were involved. Young lawyers complain, I hear similar criticism in the courts that the ministry sometimes does this too quickly or gives too short a time to comment. Somehow, here you have a draft marriage novel, and the comments are until yesterday. I would therefore like to see that, in the second, third reading, only in some way, this debate is organised in greater depth. Last but not least, we have a traditional October legal day ahead of us. Right now, I don't know what section that would be, but I'm sure it's some kind of venture where 1,000, 1,200 lawyers will be there, and we can say what we can say about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I call upon the Ambassador, Mr. Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u158	Thank you very much. In my debate, I wanted to point out above all that we have not yet taken a systematic approach to the drafting of this law. I have spoken with a number of representatives or judges, lawyers and others who have strong comments on the implementation of the practice of obtaining a state legal examination, but they feel that so far they have not had the opportunity to have any concrete impact on these solutions, which are now under the new law. I have talked about the need to sit together, to allow the judicial authorities to say what they need and also what they are able to offer as conditions for the implementation of the practice. Then we could decide on the progress of the practice and also on the specific content of the judicial examination. I did not mean, as you say, what you do on a regular basis is that you put draft novels or laws into the opinion of affected or immunized judicial authorities. The situation is pressing, the situation is crisis-like, never as it is now. The solution to this problem also requires a different systemic approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr. Marolt.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you for asking me these questions. Maybe you should try to answer for a little while. Regarding the distinction between ministries or other services. I have just presented our argument, our position, of course, I have listened carefully to your initiatives and proposals. In this legislative process, we will also examine this thoroughly and then the process will proceed. As far as the distinction is concerned, as mentioned, it would be discriminatory. We are still assessing that it is not discriminatory for those working in the judiciary to say that each day they work intensively with justice to be able to work in the judiciary as well as for those who face partial judicial issues in their work, either in the legal office or in other legal works, other ministries or other services, or in the private sector. It's about the law he was coordinated with. The law has been in coordination with all judicial bodies, i.e. the courts, the prosecutions, the defences, the bar, the chamber of notaries, and I reiterate that we always send them material to define whether they give an opinion, any comments, but above all, that they have been actively involved in the drafting of the law with the higher courts, since the higher courts are directly responsible for this area. Perhaps you would also add that MEPs with novelties in the field of public sector wages and salaries in the framework of justice have also arranged salaries or allowances for judges, prosecutors and lawyers for mentoring judicial trainees, which was done this year and the judiciary has responded positively. Now, with regard to the broader debate, I reiterate that we are interested that the legal profession can be defined more comprehensively in the future on more comprehensive solutions, but I must immediately deny the obvious that the situation is critical in this area. In fact, it is critical that waiting time is always good. It is with this novelty that we are trying to resolve and address this critical situation that was created under this applicable law, which was passed, as I said at the outset, in 1994. And we are actually saving and eliminating this critical situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I also conclude the debate with this. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, today within the framework of the vote point, which is in half an hour, at 4 p.m. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, and I also interrupt the meeting of the assembly. As we say, we'll continue at 4:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u162	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. After the stopped practice, I ask you to check your voting devices. In view of the fact that I do not see any comments, I think that all the voting devices are working fine. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedure for the Recognition of Qualifications of Nationals of the Member States of the European Union for the Conduct of regulated professions or regulated professional activities in the Republic of Slovenia. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, no third reading amendments can be tabled. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a law. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would have made the proposal inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 7. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 12th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on bond and real-law relations in aviation. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, no third reading amendments could be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Pursuant to Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law would not be harmonised due to amendments adopted on the home labour body. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes in favour, none against. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda - discusses the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on recognition of the Republic of Slovenia for business excellence. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, no third reading amendments could be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the national programme of higher education of the Republic of Slovenia The assembly will decide on the amendments tabled. Thank you very much. I am asking for attention in the context of the next vote. So we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to the first chapter. Number One, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I would like to explain the vote. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support those amendments that improve the text and we have also proposed them as coalition partners. In fact, the two are essential for the purpose of the resolution and the objectives to be followed by a single law on higher education and research and development, which can be said more clearly and in fact, and less problematic by some define the autonomy of universities. In this way, the Slovenian Democratic Party will support these amendments, at the same time of course, we are surprised at the dishonesty and credibility of those who participated and even confirmed both in the drafting of the resolution and in its coordination, we finally confirmed it to the stage in which it was and was also coordinated until that stage, and then, in some way, through their political allies in this National Assembly, in some way resigned at the end of the hearing, left the home working body as their political allies. We can also say in a positive way with some amendments, but today they are obstructing the work in addressing the text of the resolution as well as now in voting. The Slovenian Democratic Party will only act as I said.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Can we move on to a decision? We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS to the second sub-chapter of Chapter 1. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, for 2, for 42. [[You voted for two.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS to the second sub-chapter of Chapter 1. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present for 2 to 41. [[You voted for two.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS to the second sub-chapter of Chapter 1. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, for 1, for 42. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the fourth amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS to the second sub-chapter of Chapter 1. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present and he voted for 1 in favour against 42 [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to the third sub-chapter of Chapter 1. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 44.1 vs. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Chapter 1.1. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, with 44.1 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Chapter 2.1. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to chapter 10. We're voting. 45 Members and Members are present. The vote on the amendment to sub-chapter 10 will be carried out immediately. We're moving on to a different decision. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that the motion for a resolution adopted would not have been harmonised. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the correction of wrongs. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. As it is said, we continue with the second reading, that is by deciding on the amendment tabled. Before that, my fellow Run Procedurally. Explanation, I'm sorry. I'm asking you to sign up for an explanation of vote. First, on behalf of the groups of Members. Otherwise, I expected you to sign up. Comrade Run, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Mr President, I turned on the microphone instead of one of the other lights, so I wasn't there. The Group of Social Democrats will support the amendment tabled by it. I would like to explain the following. That there are completely unfounded claims that with the proposed amendment we are in any way opposed to historical processing, study and the like. That's not true. Secondly, it is entirely unfounded to argue that in any way we oppose the nominal publication of rehabilitations or exonerations. That's not true. Whoever says that makes it up. It is true, however, that in cases where they exist and where their relatives exist, it is not appropriate to allow for the publication of exoneration judgments without their consent. There are no excusable reasons for this. There can be excusable reasons if there are no longer family members and victims, in which case the State would wish to publish judgments to obtain a complete picture. But there is really no reason for this in cases where relatives and victims exist. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Law on the Remedy of Wrongdoings, which most of you probably do not remember - seems to have, after what he said, that also Mr. Minister does - even have a chapter on rehabilitation. And the section on rehabilitation also contains provisions on the application of Article 543 of the Criminal Procedure Act, which provides for the public publication of the judgment, if that is the interest of the person concerned. So all these things are already possible under the law, they were adopted 12 years ago. If there is a time limit that we have not discussed, delete from the law and leave the law free - right, it is the correction of the injustices, we have not objected to it, although we do not have it fully regulated in the system. But to prevent the protection of personal data for the affected and their relatives is a solution that I think goes beyond legal interests and goes to the point of wanting to show up for a period of time in the way the Minister spoke about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? Desire to explain your voice? I'm opening a procedure for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Here you go. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor to explain his voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u167	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! It is probably clear to you that in this law, I will vote against these amendments. Rather, it is a fundamental human dignity and a fundamental human right to decide for himself what is known and not known. There are many people who in those days were unjustly condemned, persecuted, oppressed, socially disabled, or whatever. But it's their destiny, and they lived it themselves. And so, of course, they have every right to speak about it, whether they give their lives to everyone else or not. So until it is possible for a person to decide freely what the public will know and what it will not do, I will not support such laws for so long. It must be made very clear here that those who are affected have the right to decide, as well as their relatives. Some people have locked you up and won't have them outside. And, of course, so many must be respected, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u168	Thank you very much. And the word is from Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. So it would be harder to explain more with dignity than Mr Gulič did when he was actually in favour of this amendment. And that was the intention of our amendment. Anyone affected by these criminal post-war trials is still the owner of his personal data. And he's the one who's going to say whether he wants to perform with a full name and surname in various research, but sometimes, if you want, even pamphlets. And his heirs, if he's dead, dare and may do so. Therefore, we do not fall for any instigation about our opposition to the correction of injustices. On the contrary, of course, we support the correction of injustices, but we stress that the standard of personal data protection is also very important and that even higher standards have been achieved in Europe in the meantime. And those who oppose our amendment did not, for example, refer to the European Convention on the Protection of the Rights of the Individual with regard to his personal data, where it is said that there may be an exception to scientific and other research, but also in this case the right of the individual to his or her privacy and personal data should not be affected. So I ask you to understand us correctly and support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u170	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 43. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 43.]] We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment was not adopted in the second reading, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would not have led to any non-compliance with the law. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 19. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 23rd item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Legal State Examination We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Proposal of a law on amendments and additions to the law on legal examination - the first hearing is suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters, this is a bill on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to submit an amendment in the third reading of the amendments. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 27. The Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic of Slovenia on the accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia on the accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Slovenia The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labour body, which also reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 28. PERIOD OF THE DAY - CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL RELEVANT TEXTS OF THE LAW. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the Council decide that all official texts purified shall be confirmed by one vote. Does anyone object to the proposal? No, no, no. It means we're moving on to a decision. So, we will vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 63 votes against 1. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The Act on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures, the Law on Compulsory Insurance in Transport, the Law on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco Products, the Law on Local Elections, the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Hostages, the Law on the Implementation of the Principle of Equal Treatment, the Law on National Housing Savings Schemes and Subventions to Young Families for the First Resolution of the Housing Question, the Law on Detective Activity, the Law on the System of Salaries in the Public Sector, the Law on Judicial Functioning, the Law on State Defence, the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, the Law on Parliamentary Supervision of the Republics and Security Services, the Law on the Law on the Enforcement of the Court of Slovenia and the Law of 2008. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 63 votes against 1. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the assembly has officially consolidated the texts of those proposals of the law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. PERIOD OF THE DAY, A MANAGEMENT-VELIVAL MATTERS. In the context of this item, the assembly will consider: firstly, the proposal of the Council of Justice for the appointment to the Supreme Court of Justice in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia; and secondly, the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry of the National Assembly to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in relation to the alleged damage to State property in the sale of the shares of the Capital Society and the Slovenian Compensation Society in companies, by covering the investigation of all undertakings which are disputed in terms of compliance with laws and other regulations and in terms of transparency and economy. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. As it is said, we are moving first to the consideration of the proposal of the Judicial Council for appointment to the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a proposal for the appointment of Mrs Karmen Iglič Stroligo to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which also reported in writing to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. I give the word "magic." Mr Borutu Saiovic for presentation of the position of the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy. [[You're giving up.]] Thank you. We are moving on to a general debate where I also have a colleague, Saiovic, who has also been reported. [[You're giving up.]] Thanks again. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision appointing Mrs Karmen Iglič Stroligo to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Secondly, a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to establish the political responsibility of holders of public functions in relation to the alleged damage to state property in the sale of shares of the Capital Company and of the Slovenian Indemnity Society in companies, by covering the investigation of all sales which are controversial in terms of compliance with the law and other regulations and in terms of transparency and economy. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to Mr Miran Potrče to present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I will not vote on the proposal for a new member's seat and the President of the Investigative Commission to establish the political responsibility of public function holders in relation to alleged damage to state property in the sale of shares of the Capital Society, d.d., and of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, d.d., in economic companies, by covering the investigation of all sales which are disputed in terms of compliance with laws and other regulations and in terms of transparency and economy. Members of the Social Democrats will do the same. There are many reasons why I should say the most important first. Since the establishment of this commission of inquiry, almost two years have passed. It was established in opposition to the then Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the Social Democrats, and today, the Group of Non-Aligned Members. At the same time, it was set up to prevent the establishment of an Investigative Commission on the sale of the capital shares of the Indemnity Company and the Capital Company in Mercator, which was requested by 31 opposition Members and Members. I still argue that this investigative commission of opposition has not been established and that the rights of Members and Members as well as the Constitution have been misused. However, it was established on the promise that the rejection of the establishment of the Mercator Special Investigation Commission is justified only if Mercator is given priority in the Joint Investigation Commission. We see and know she wasn't. It was just a trick and an empty promise. In addition to this, the legal adviser to the National Assembly, Dr Miro Cerar, said that if Mercator was not dealt with as a priority, the President of the National Assembly should reactivate our opposition request and present a special investigation. Of course, that didn't happen either. And that is the most important reason not to vote. By the way, let me tell you how our conduct in public publishing, because we are not members of the commission of inquiry, has led to an investigative commission so far. In a year and a half, she had one session a month, totaling 26 and a half hours, that is, an hour and a half a day. At that time, she interrogated 21 persons and, according to the agendas published in public, did nothing but adopt a few conclusions and conducted these 21 hearings, including, again by our conduct, she did not give priority to questioning persons who might be involved in the ownership of the KAD and the SOD. Is it possible to assess in such a part that the Commission of Inquiry could assess the injury in more than 60 companies, as far as it has in its list, and Mercator would prefer that? That's another reason. Finally, the proposal, the new members and the President, Mr Branko Marinič. Democrats have the right to propose it. It must be said, however, that he has not been a member or alternate member of the Commission so far and will therefore take quite some time for the Commission to really do something and find out that it will become aware of its work so far and that at least with the sluggish speed that the Commission has been working, working and leading the Commission forward. All of this is the irresponsible conduct of the National Assembly. It's a farce for us. In the light of the Court of Auditors' opinion and the promises made, the coalition and the new President may shake off the liability for silence given to potential abuses, clientism, corruption and crime, and do not want to be investigated in order to establish the facts, only by immediately addressing Mercator and all other matters, until the State Assembly adopts an interim report on this matter. With such a clear decision by the Commission of Inquiry and the new President to give priority to Mercator, and with the offer to agree on this together in the Commission, we are also prepared to participate in it, as we said when the Commission was set up, and there was no such willingness by the majority. These are the reasons why we will not vote on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u172	Thank you very much. However, we are going through a general debate between Members and Members. I have three Members on my list. The first one has the word of his colleague Dušan Kumer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u173	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Although I was going to give up the debate, but because the leader of the largest parliamentary group encouraged me to say something and I will say directly what I think and what I think are facts. In view of the fact that the Commission of Inquiry was set up primarily to avoid the disclosure of certain irregularities in the sale of shares in certain companies, it is entirely irrelevant whether this Commission exists or does not exist or whether this Commission has a President or does not have a President. As you can see, after one year the words of the former secretary of state experienced their epilogue. Mercator’s share price rose well, Mercator’s food prices grew even more, and Hofer and Lidla’s competition, which was a chronic argument, why KAD and SOD sold their shares in Mercator, proved to be a null argument. Since it was a commission that she set up, as I said at the outset, a coalition and it was impossible for the opposition to establish its own, it would be much more rational for this coalition commission to be with the government, but not with the National Assembly, at least at some cost, not least the salaries of those who run this commission. However, since I have been taught by the Commission on Mandated Questions not to talk in advance about the effects of the work of this Commission, I will remain silent about this, but I will nevertheless allow myself to announce in advance the result of the impact and the work of the Commission next year. This one's gonna be useless. In fact, next year before the elections, we will be able to have on the menu some kind of politicised dessert for the pre-election campaign. And finally, I feel for my colleague, who will take over this commission this year. And I would like to tell him that he, too, is obviously a victim of some strategy of attempt to end up in a retraining project to chair this committee in this last year, just as you are about to be appointed ministers. This we had the opportunity to see in this National Assembly in the past, when they were very clumsy, uneducated about the things they had accepted. Once again, I feel for a colleague who, in this last year, when he was not even a member of this commission, found the courage to lead this commission in the next nine months and to bring it to epilogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The next one reported for discussion is mag. Milan M. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u175	Thank you very much. If, at the beginning of independent Slovenia, the sale of arms and the sale of weapons to the mother of all affairs was, of course, at the beginning of this mandate, Mercator’s sale in the manner it was carried out, the mother of all transition affairs, which substantially alter the ownership structure in Slovenian society. On 12 August 2005, a meeting of representatives of certain companies was opened and a meeting was held with the President of the Government. Eight days later, the record was published by Andrian Starina Kosem. In this record there is really only one important sentence: Pivovarna Laško d.d. and Istrabenz d.d. have also presented their plans in this area in the round, [[These include acquisition plans in Southeast European markets and plans for inorganic growth through acquisitions]] . And Mrs Andrijana Starina Kosem correctly wrote down, it is an inorganic growth, a growth caused by the Mercator's bride's sale of the will of politics. The Court of Auditors found that Mercator’s sale proceedings were carried out in a manner that did not ensure the transparency of the sales procedure, which is not in accordance with the Statute of the Court of Justice. Members of the opposition have proposed that at one of the following meetings, we invite the Government to cancel the treaty in accordance with the SOD report, because it has violated the statute of the SOD and the SOD has, as its Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, in addition to political ones, the judicial authorities will decide whether the functioning of the members of the board of directors of the company and the members of the board of directors of the company of shares was a prudent management. Undoubtedly, this figures show, it was the actions of the Prime Minister of the Government, who on August 12th allowed inorganic growth through acquisition, the cause of the affair. I'll be done in a minute. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u176	Comrade Squeakle, I'll take your word for it right now. We are talking about a completely different matter today. Do you want to close or should I turn off your microphone?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u177	I'm done. Proposal [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u178	Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Miran Potch has the floor. Please stick to the agenda item that speaks of the appointment of members of the commission. Comrade Run, here you go. You're giving up. Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. We are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-Presidents and members and alternate members of the Board of Inquiry of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in relation to the alleged damage to state property in the sale of shares of the Capital Society and of the Slovenian Compensation Society in companies, by covering the investigation of all sales which are controversial in terms of compliance with laws and other regulations and in terms of transparency and economy. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, for 45, against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. However, we continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - the third reading of the proposal for a venture capital company law. On Tuesday 25 September of this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. However, I inform you that, pursuant to Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would not be harmonised. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of voice. I am opening the application procedure on behalf of the groups of Members. Does anyone want to do this on behalf of the Group of Members? [[No, no, ……]] Then we're passing, Comrade Squeakle, on our own behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I hope you don't interrupt me here either. I'm going to talk about the Risk Capital Society Act, a law we said we wouldn't oppose and I won't oppose. Of course, this marriage has a huge flaw. The weakness of this law is that it tries to do what is not possible through formal procedures at the Ministry of the Economy. It is not possible to encourage investors to come and risk their capital in a society where an economic society can develop in an inorganic manner only through the help of top political officials. It just doesn't work. Therefore, this law in venture capital companies will be simply a false attempt by the current authorities to create at least a few jobs of high value until some potential acquisitions are cleared up. I have said about this booth that in England, where the largest share of venture capital companies and such investments are, they do not have any law. However, in England, the affairs of inorganic growth caused by the meeting at Gordon Brown or Tony Blair prevent parliamentary democracy. This is not the case in Slovenia and it is necessary to talk about it even if the Member takes the floor. Thank you very much. I won't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on investment funds and management companies. On Tuesday 25 September of this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. However, I inform you that, pursuant to Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, neither the Legislative and Legal Service nor the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have informed me that the law on the grounds of the adopted amendment would be inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to an explanation of the voice in our own name. Comrade Squeakle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Of course, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Companies and Funds Act has only one important change that has taken place in the second reading. It's a good thing we accepted it. But let me say that there is a duality in this National Assembly. We have adopted an amendment to give each Slovenian the opportunity to receive his tax number only by written consent of the management company or management funds. A few minutes ago, however, you rejected the amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Correction of Blame, where this written consent, which we will now give to all Slovenes and Slovenes, is the right of written consent to be given to the tax number, but you have taken this written consent either to those accused of guilt or their heirs. There is a great duality in this National Assembly. When you are guided by the goal of rewriting history, then the right must be exercised, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] To someone who has the right to give written consent, to take away. [[...]] When you're in the interest of capital, you have the right to do so. And imagine that when you adopt the law today and ask yourself again why you did not support another amendment with the same substantive solution, giving an individual the right to give written consent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u182	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. I am adjourning the 31st session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a nice day ahead.
