ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Anton Anderlich, Roberto Battelli, Josip Bajc, Aurelio Juri, Bojan Kontic and Franc [[Ferry]] Horvath. We're moving on to 25. Agenda item - Third Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Primary School, Regular Procedure. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for further explanation. Mrs. Alenka Svertz, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u2	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Perhaps there are just a few key points to this debate. The primary school law brings some news. One of these is that it introduces a curriculum in the school space that allows for more systematic and planned integration in the area of education in the school area, especially between parents and teachers. Another important emphasis that goes particularly well for teachers is to exclude ZUP from educational processes. This relieves teachers and removes administrative obstacles. The next emphasis is the introduction of another foreign language as mandatory in the last triad. In fact, by introducing another foreign language, we are becoming comparable to other European countries. The flexible subject, however, is one that increases the autonomy of school space and actually allows schools to adapt the subject according to the space and according to the staff capacity of individual schools. It is particularly gratifying in the Basic School Act to take care of students with special needs who, following the new adoption of this law, can also pass between different programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Purity on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State and Director, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The third considers amendments and the addition of the Basic School Act takes place in specific circumstances. To this law, the public has made much less room and time available to the public than to supplement and amend the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. However, both marriages have much in common. Both, in particular the Basic School Act, bring about additions and changes to the great conceptual change. The already notable topics have predicted that changes should be made to the Slovenian school premises, which would also follow all of those conclusions related to the Lisbon Strategy, which we follow or follow in other European countries. Indeed, the success of each of the economies of the members of the European Union and of Europe as a whole depends in many ways on how we will know how to answer a number of questions related to inefficiency, self-sufficiency and non-lifelessness of educational systems; but I stress that these questions should be answered in each national school system in particular and from a thorough analysis of the current situation, of the planned professional basis for whether or not fundamental changes are necessary, and also of what the intended effects are. And right here, this is where it stops. Today, the outstanding issues published by the Ministry of Education and Sport have come across the professional and interested public, as well as in politics, at various receptions. And the more it was announced that they were demanding a thorough professional basis, a kind of new white book, the less willing to listen to these comments. A public presentation of opinions, which was, in fact, placed after the second reading of the Basic School Act, raised some very important issues, including the announced changes and then the decisions already taken at second reading at the home work body. And allow me to point out once again on this occasion that, in whatever way we measure the effectiveness and duration of the public debate on this law, we have not received an answer to the fundamental question that, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, should be governed by a common social consensus, this is what school we need in the 21st century and what we are willing to do for this school, how much we are willing to invest in it. It appears that the third treatment will not provide substantive answers to the essential questions, since the law, as it is, opened only in two articles and the additions tabled do not indicate the essential amendments to the law. We are aware of the fact that the concept of a nine-year-old who has been adopted and who has brought us closer to other European countries after both the length of schooling and after school, we would have been thoroughly prepared and expected to do so for the announced changes, as said. The concept was based on the need to take account of individual differences between children in development if the school was to allow each individual to learn as much as possible and the nine-year-old was systematically and substantively conceived in the direction of going beyond a single school with a high degree of sensitivity after maintaining a common school. It is no wonder, therefore, that much of the comments were made not only by the Social Democrats, but also by the professional public in particular, aimed at the treatment of elective items, but it is not possible to say that all the comments went in the same direction, but, however, that selectivity was recognised as that positive change in the nine-year-old who should only be improved and complemented. And here it is not possible to agree to the thesis that we are moving forward if we have only abolished two groups of selection items from which individuals have to choose the subject to be visited. The fundamental point is that selectivity is actually diminishing due to compulsory foreign language learning. And here the debate went again in a different direction, and there were arguments that the compulsory introduction of another foreign language was unnecessary because for that small number of people involved in primary school education, it was necessary to leave the door open in order for other foreign languages not to decide, it was to take account of individual differences. These warnings were all the more important because the advocates of compulsory learning of another foreign language recognize that they are not prepared or that we do not know whether we have enough qualified teachers to teach another foreign language and that a whole range of other organizational matters is not yet ready. It is hard to believe that, at the same time as the compulsory introduction of another foreign language, they could also introduce the same quality of experimental learning of the foreign language in the first three years, provided that this teaching, as it was possible to read, is left to the classroom teacher. It is true that professors and professors of classroom education are educated through the redesigned university programs, but experts, linguists, stress that special skills for this course are needed to be mastered in the early learning of the foreign language. I would like to stress here that there are no answers to the questions that have also been raised severely in the public presentation of opinions. Another change that we cannot agree with the Social Democrats is the suspension of an extended stay in the sixth grade of primary school. No matter how willing the lawmaker was to cover the costs of extended stay, they could leave the door open at least for the possibility of organising extended stay in the sixth grade. More professional controversy has been triggered by a provision to abandon general success. It is true that we cannot be fully satisfied with the achievement of the standards of knowledge. It is true that our students in international comparisons do not do well. But the worst of all possible solutions is that we stop what might still indicate where changes need to be made and take action, and we end the overall success. It's like putting an end to the general success of something is going to improve the knowledge of individual subjects. That's where we should put the job. The other not-so-important issues, which should be dealt with more sensitively and prudently, are questions related to rationalisation. True, the lawmakers and the coalition later withdrew this as a fundamental objective of amending the law and began to point out other changes, but if that time did not change the rules on norms and standards, then it would be possible to overlook this initial awkwardness, which has shown the right purpose of the changes made. However, taking into account only the relationship between those schools, which with the new regulations has deteriorated with regard to the number of departments, the number of groups involved in the extended stay or teaching in the last three years, the number of schools is significantly higher, even if we take into account schools where the situation has not improved. 88 schools, where the situation remained the same, against 104 schools where the situation has improved, cannot be more than close to 300, I say close to 300 schools where the situation has deteriorated. The same is true of the number of students involved in the number of schools where the situation is worse than those where it is better. So if we look at these two data points together, we really can't ignore where the intentional ones are going. And so much more concerned about the fact that the coalition convinces us of the benefits of the situation in which we are living, and with the first priority that knowledge should represent for a society that wants to develop, that is knowledge, we do not give adequate attention and adequate financial resources for all of this. And here we cannot satisfy the Social Democrats only with absolute comparisons of numbers, how much there is on an individual now in the education of the metered-up resources, because it is necessary to ask ourselves whether this is enough and whether there is still other reserves to be found. It is true that the Basic School Act has not experienced rejection in the State Council, that even in public this law has not raised as many concerns as others, which today will be the subject of a word, but it does not suggest that we have ignored that the Social Democrats have repeatedly or, whenever possible, said that the law in the form proposed does not intend to support it and that we will try to take advantage of all the options that remain in place so that such a law does not enter into force. The fact is, though, that a law such as that of the third reading is no longer to be affected because the law, as it was said, is closed. Therefore, the fundamental question is whether it is appropriate to cooperate in such an examination. And the Social Democrats don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u5	Mr Mitja Slavinec has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! In the LDS, we deeply regret that in the second reading, the government coalition has so arrogantly voted all the proposed additions to the amendment of the primary school law, despite one of the broadest objections, both interested and professional, as well as the entire opposition and even the work of the coalition members, not least despite the threat of the union after the referendum. Our regret is even greater when we consider what will happen to the school now. What will happen because of this law that is being discussed at this time and, of course, also in connection with the law that we will deal with later - the excellence, excellence that we like to stress at every step will be banished from school. The potential pressures of parents on teachers, that was one of the arguments why learning success is being eliminated, of course, will not be reduced. On the contrary! Now we can expect pressure, desires, whatever we call it, after an average estimate of 5.0. And until teachers are guaranteed greater integrity, autonomy and, last but not least, more appropriate educational competence, pressures will not be reduced by removing the indicator. Students will now be even less motivated to teach some unloved, some unloved subjects, but in everyday life, of course, very important content. It will reduce the breadth of basic fundamental knowledge, which the primary school has already derived from the name, of course it has to give. Even more important will be the numerical assessment, but no more will all other students' schooling, out-of-school success, which often have a major impact on later professional decision-making and also on the career performance of individuals. Students, not only will they become only numbers, but they will also lose the external motivation that a child needs very much at this age. There will be no more those who will make an effort to do so, perhaps only a little, to be excellent, there will be no more those who are at the border between good and good, and after the external motivation will strive to improve success. Of course, that's not gonna happen anymore. Why? Because someone estimates that this will reduce pressure on teachers. He won't, he won't cut them! The next thing is the introduction of another foreign language as mandatory content in primary schools. I am sure that no one objects to the need to communicate in foreign languages, including in several foreign languages, but we are very much concerned about the way in which the new foreign language is introduced into your primary school; it is introduced as a compulsory subject and is particularly problematic, at the expense of whom and in what way. The second foreign language - by the way, she has already chosen him as a selective more than half of the students, and this has had the opportunity at all schools in Slovenia, except at five, so practically at all schools - the second foreign language will now be required to reduce selectivity; the number of hours that students will be able to devote to selected subjects will be reduced. And practice shows that these selection items are the content they like the most, which they devote themselves to and give them the knowledge they need most in their careers. This new concept of selection also now eliminates a more even distribution, which was ensured by students choosing one of the sets of natural objects and one, at least from the socio-humanist group. It's not like that anymore. It is all right that now our student and his classmate in Austria, Germany, will be able to speak in German as a compulsory foreign language, for example. But I will tell you that this knowledge, in the last triad of primary school acquired, will be too little and will switch both of you very quickly back to English, which will be much better mastered by learning it as the first foreign language. And this introductory discussion that our people will be able to talk to foreigners in their language, but it may cost him not knowing that electricity does not come from the outlet, but from the power plant, that he will not know that computers are also useful for a lot of other things, not just playing games, so that he will not get other content that could be available in the selection objects. Once again, when we are problematic about the introduction of another foreign language into primary school, we certainly do not want to create the impression that we are opposed to learning foreign languages. On the contrary, far from this, but not at the expense of those subjects which are already so small in school, and not at the expense of choice, which objectively, however the Government with its trick wants to deny it, they are now losing. Choices will be on worse, science and technology will also be on worse. Of course, the procedure itself was problematic, as we came to the third consideration of how we came to this law as far as it is now. Conducting the proceedings at the meeting of the Committee, we have replaced the order of the agenda items there and therefore it has not been provided or opposed by more than 1/3 of the Members present and this is contrary to the rules. And then the farce that followed, the public debate was, after second reading, on the working body of the mother, that is, when most of the articles were already closed and this public debate was intended for itself. And then came the collection of signatures, signatures against this law. More than 70 000, almost 75 000 signatures of the interested and professional public who oppose this law are deposited in the National Assembly, the visa of the good 600 signatures they support, 70,000 to 600. We'll see what the relationship is. Finally, the experts who prepared the changes were not prepared to publicly defend them. It's a phantom-professional law prepared by experts who don't know who they are and on what basis they've prepared it. If nothing else, it is at least contrary to the government's promises to act transparently and to keep its work regularly informed and include, more importantly, the public. As a result of all of the above and of what we have already warned in the process, the LDS Club estimates that, with the possible adoption of this law, our schools will have a dark future, so we will vote against and also call on all other parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Marjetko Uhan to give an opinion on behalf of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honourable Secretary of State with co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament, all those accompanying this meeting. In Novi Slovenije, we have said several times that it does not seem that the proposed amendment of the primary school law would undermine or defile the school system as some of us would like to frame. With the proposed novel, we take a cautious step towards the so-called school field, even though some want to show us as elephants in a porcelain shop. The proposed changes follow the objectives of primary education. We want to improve the area of education, attract parents and children, together with teachers, to design educational plans, taking into account the needs, interests of students and the environment. We would like to create a secure and encouraging environment, and if we remove at least one security guard, a guard at our schools or a teacher's powerlessness, the goal will be achieved. It is not only literacy and knowledge that is sufficient for life, but also decision - making and responsibility for action. We don't blame teachers, less to take their sense of security, their job. These changes do not make it necessary to be afraid of jobs, which some threaten to do. Parents and teachers must cooperate and take responsibility for the upbringing and education of children, so that we will let children know what they can and cannot do, and what their duties are, not just rights. Education and education are equivalent tasks and the mission of all schools. We are convinced that it was done in the past in the educational segment that it was not enough. Too many prescribed measures, forms, administrations, too little power to solve specific problems. So we put in place educational plans where students and teachers work together, and we welcome this. Novela brings another foreign language as a compulsory object. One more guarantee for the teacher's job. However, I am convinced that other foreign languages - they are not impressed by those mothers whose children barely think about what the poor people will do with another foreign language. More are such mothers who are already forced into foreign languages in kindergartens and are enrolled in foreign languages, and then in primary school. It is true that most children also choose a foreign language from the selection content where they have the option. By introducing another foreign language, at least they will no longer have to pay. In New Slovenia, we support the gradual introduction of another foreign language and support the Ministry's proposals to submit with appropriate didactic methods and in different subjects, and we only hope that it will not be necessary to sit with the child and continuously encourage; but this is not dependent on the subject, but from the child, we have been taught by teachers. General learning success is overturned. Many European countries do not know this; only the Czech Republic, Albania, Greece still appreciates the child's knowledge with it. We are really used to it, and it seems to us that, after learning success, we evaluate children, even though we know that learning success does not always reflect further success in life. So the goal is to highlight the children’s strengths, their talents, and the direction in which they will develop. On average, however, it is still stimulated for objects that are less lying to it. In Novi Slovenija we also welcome this news that the music school will be recognised as a selection subject. And another novelty of the novel: of the selection content and of the two compulsory objects it can reach out to both of the same areas and not like now when it had to choose one from the sociology, the other from the natural science. On the one hand, we try to make sure that our children have the choice to choose what lies with them happy, and on the other hand, we cannot out of our own skin and constantly prescribe what they must choose. So we also welcome this change. We welcome the flexible subject, since it is finally up to the schools to organise a number of subjects themselves within the expected hours and the learning year in terms of staffing and spatial opportunities. Primary school remains compulsory for all children, including some parents who still do not take it seriously and send them to school only occasionally. The law lays down penalties for inadvertentity in entering and violating the rules of the game. It will also be possible to train children for endangering other children and for failing to respect the general legality of the school, in accordance with the professional proposal and the consent of schools, without parents who are obviously not partial to such a child themselves. If this is as beneficial to a child as it is to others and is practically feasible, we support it. However, we hope that this will be more exceptional than the rule. We will support the proposed changes. The proposed changes, in our view, should not bring so much concern to some teachers. But it is true that children bring anxiety, and in this case especially those who do not. Annually, generations are reduced by 6 to 7,000 children. And this is a child for a few ten departments. And according to the standards that have been so consistently prescribed in the past, it is true that there are not enough children for all teachers. But, as it is said, this novel does not reduce jobs, it provides them, for example, by introducing another foreign language. And there's something else we've been worried about for a long time: the safety of schools with security guards. We are not concerned by security guards, but by the fact that the education system has cancelled the need for security guards, and we can only wonder what is wrong with our education and education. Where and where he canceled the system - probably not with the security guard or just with him - let's look at schools that don't need it. In New Slovenia, we do not close our eyes to resolve all of this with the proposed changes. But we want to start solving and directing education and education on the right path.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice-President, State Secretary with Co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament! We support the bill because, in our view, the key intention of the law is to enable schools to have greater autonomy in organising and carrying out educational work so that the school is more appropriate to students and their needs. This law allows schools to take greater account of the needs and specificities of their environment in which they are located and to regulate it autonomously in their acts, so they decide autonomously how they will achieve the objectives of education, which are uniformly set out in Article 2 of the Act. Schools will also be able to introduce better discipline and thus raise children. Special attention must be paid to branch schools, which constitute a cultural and social centre in the countryside, a community movement. We have listened carefully to the opinion at the public hearing and have examined a number of comments on both amendments to the law. The changes are the continuation of already launched changes that are already being implemented: changes in the field of level learning, national knowledge testing, two evaluation periods, in particular the new composition of the world and thus the greater impact of parents. Many experts have also participated in the design of the changes ahead of us, and we believe they have proposed changes in the way students are evaluated and advanced on the basis of teaching experience and analysis. The proposal for amendments also arose due to shortcomings and the need for improvements that have emerged in the system itself. In our view, a flexible subject will contribute to a better organisation of learning, a music school will be recognised as an elective subject, thus decommissioning students, and in the second triad a descriptive evaluation will be discontinued. In the opinion of experts, the abolition of general learning success will encourage students to seek more evaluation in all subjects, not to be included in general learning success as well as good assessments so far, for example in physical education or in subjects of education or choice. However, it is necessary to introduce new content and the quality of the provision of educational content, since the school must raise the child's overall personality. We also need to teach children that in everyday life they are, in addition to the rights of duty and responsibility to each other and to themselves and to the community as a whole. In the parliamentary group, I also support the provision of assistance to learn Slovenian for foreign students who are involved in our system. Finally, let me reiterate our position in the first reading that the introduction of a compulsory second foreign language should not damage the quality and extent of learning the Slovenian language and in our opinion, the second foreign anger could remain as an object of choice. Of course, due to other positive changes listed, better quality of education, improved education and discipline and greater autonomy of schools, we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u12	Nice greetings to all present! The worst thing for me is that at the third reading today, I have to repeat the words spoken at the first reading. In the meantime, a number of things have happened, in the end, even a public presentation of opinions, whether somewhat pharsic or farsic, because after the second treatment was already behind us, that is to say, when the key solutions were already closed or when there was nothing left of that manoeuvre space where those findings could have been applied that would have been seized of this public hearing. After this public hearing, many representatives of schoolchildren or those who are in one way or another connected with education approached us and our website with horror as it did. It was limited in implementation and, after all, as much or much time for public presentation of opinions were received, representatives of those who did not enter into the Government's dialogue took over, but those who defended, without any major arguments, what they were defending. Well, if I recall what we said at first reading. At the first reading or at the beginning, at the very beginning of the rapid march of this law, we said that it was not a small one at all, but an important innovation in education, in the education and education system, and I repeat that he was opposed by a large number of people, that he was seriously questioned by the profession, even by the government professional council, and that I was not talking about the association of directors, users and that I was not referring to the dissatisfaction of the union. But despite the fact that the professional public wanted to, called, warned, urged that it should first be prepared conceptually - whether it was a white book or something else - a conceptual basis for drawing on and also for disclosing changes, this did not happen. It went quickly, without serious and sober thinking, if you don't have to, because there's no big reform coming up, but it's some kind of elevator that's not meant to be fatal. And what hurts me every day - let's say yesterday, when we discussed another area at this hour, the field of humanism, the area of the book - it's true that it's not a rumor that we're going to be able to make some compromise or any dialogue decision based on dialogue, but that it's all translated into one side of the so-called opposition profession, we've heard in this law for the last time, on the other hand, opposition just like that. No! No! The reasons are great and allow me to repeat them. Even earlier, to say that today, in short, when we are already facing the draft education budget in 2008 and 2009, our concerns are rightly even greater at the point where we have dealt with the unacceptableness of this law. Because the share of money earmarked for education, which, for example, is being covered by the Minister of the Beast, is declining in the coming years. I'm sure now you'll say to the government representatives, "No, let's see the percentages!" Indeed, and this is not only the Minister of the Beast, including other ministers, for example, when we are dealing with the share of money devoted to the field, in this case education, for 2008 and 2009. It is declining in the light of the share of gross domestic income, which I believe will fall to the level in 1995, 1996 — in the middle of 90 years. And that's worrying. Because we are looking at the proportion of an area within GDP, we are talking about the priorities that the Government has in its work visions. Well, if I repeat some of the main features of primary school law or reform. As has already been said many times today, we do not agree with the reduction in selectivity, i.e. the concept of selection items, which should mean that somewhere in the school is being introduced, in short, that the introduction of the possibility of a student avoiding participation in selected subjects for the purpose of attending a music school. It is also interesting that, now, some say, the openness of the choice of subjects increases, say, this autonomy or self-determination of students and students. Yes, yes, but on the other hand, it is the ambiguity of the decision, for it is easy to close the possibility that, for example, a certain balance between humanistic and so-called other more technical knowledge would be achieved. We do not agree with the introduction of a mandatory second language at the expense of the hours of the first. Let me point out that, while this is no disputed intention of introducing a compulsory second language, it can be turned into that students will not ultimately have enough knowledge for the first language, not for the second language. In addition, no reply was given to the home committee on the breadth of the choice and on the workforce, so I fully understand the legitimate fear of those who have recently turned to me because of the concern that uneducated non-educators will be able to teach a foreign language in the future. You know that a rule, which I hope will not be adopted in the way proposals came, is said to be taught by everyone, including translators, and so on. This is said to be a human resource deficit and that this human resources deficit is now being resolved in a way that is possible so that everyone can be able to get along, whether they have pedagogical knowledge or not, but can be found in this profession. Nor do we agree with ending the overall success that is attractive, likeable, which can be satisfied with, but the question is whether or not it is well thought out. From the very beginning we said it wasn't, because here is an open question about incentives for learning and we don't know how - and this is essentially an experiment. An experiment that will allow many generations to have bad consequences, but without projections, without reflection, this experiment is done in an inappropriate way on students who may like it, but it is not necessarily to benefit them. And what, of course, we should watch, what we should follow, is their benefit. Certainly, the law is unacceptable to us, and there is no longer any possibility that we can correct it in any way, that we can influence it, that we know that we are now facing some, that I will say, very minimal and unimportant amendments to the law that you will deal with today through the decisions on amendments, that they will not have a fatal impact, that the concept of change will not be changed, and in this sense I can repeat for the first time, secondly, thirdly, even today, that this form of law is really unacceptable for the Group, we will not support it, we will not participate in such a form of law that does not have a consensus which is opposed to almost all relevant: the professional public opposes it, the users, and where the arguments for its inadmissibility on the other hand or to challenge these arguments are insufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives or representatives of the Ministry of Education and Sport! I am surprised that today, when some kind of "day D" is for Slovenian primary education, there is no minister, the key man behind the school reform. I heard the minister was supposed to be running around Europe. You know, this is also enough talkative information, what are the priorities of this government, especially this minister: today, when we change the system of basic public education, today the minister is not with us. Yeah, well, you're going to say, not least, the government coalition forced everyone, hit the whole opposition, hit the professional public, so there's nothing more to be done in the third reading, just why the minister would be here. You're right on your own. And I say it's just a dot on and in a word that's called ignorance of government doing. From the period before the parliamentary holidays, when we did the first examination of both school laws in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, until today, hand to heart, nothing has changed as to the contents of both laws. I would like to point out that the whole Government, including its voting apparatus in Parliament, has played, in an ugly way, for months, not only the MPs and members of the National Assembly, the legislative branch of government, but the entire Slovenian public. You know, as if the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, some principled culture of action, the management of working bodies, does not apply to individual, I don't know, maybe even the generals of the government SDS. You know, even a public statement of views - I believe you will remember it, it was on a proposal from the opposition - because of the power of the chairman of the committee only after second reading on the working body; it is said that when it was no longer possible to influence the substantive change of both laws through public debate. Thus, this public debate has also actually taken place in the tone of the humiliation of those present, and I will reiterate not only the Members of the Parliament and Members of the National Assembly but also the guests, but also the wider professional public, who were present at the public hearing. I will say, doing reckless reform, without analysis, without studies in compulsory public primary education, which is the basis on which all the knowledge of society is built, that is the basis, first level, if you want, such work can be very harmful in the long term. Allow me, at the outset, to deny any intentional speculation and deception by Minister Beast, but once again I am sorry that he is not with us today, I am denouncing Minister Beast's statements and his co-conspirators. In Slovenia we did not ask ourselves whether we want and whether we really need a privatised and commercialised primary school. Whether we want to dismantle the system of public education tradition in the way the United States knows it or not, if I focus on the European Union, Britain. In these systems, public primary school is actually degraded or I apologize, ghettoised. Wouldn't it be better to build up the public education system, the public primary education system with new knowledge, the new social quality guidelines, if you want, in the field of education and education, which, for example, are very good in Finland and which have very good results? Wouldn't it be better to build really at a free primary school? You know - at least you know - that the financial resources for the existing basic school network are very limited, even so much so that this government has drawn on the "pipico" that schools have begun to phase out free activities. This is real, respected colleagues and colleagues. For example, during the extended stay, even though this government boasts about introducing free extended stay in the fifth grade, on the fact that it is terminated for the sixth grade. They pay for, say, photocopies, even toilet paper in some primary schools. Also, free textbooks promised by the minister are not really free textbooks. Even less in this case, it is a system of social justice; the system or social justice that, for example, the government or the ministry referred to when it opposed free kindergartens. At that time, they called on them to break the system of social justice. And we had to go back to the double. And when questioned about the need to rebuild the school, the government refers to the responsibility of the local community. The duty of local communities, which for a large majority cannot follow the needs of funding. The vast majority of old schools were built with self-contribution. Today the schools are permanent and here there is, respected colleagues and colleagues, such a very obvious difference that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is legislating with school reform. In addition to 100% of state funding, private schools will have a capital injection by the founder, i.e. a private person - under the terms of the law, a private person cannot be anyone! Yeah, that's right! But a private school can be set up by someone who has an alternative public education program. It's not anyone. These conditions today meet the specific requirements of the Church. And I would like to warn you because information has been repeatedly distorted in the public: according to existing legislation, it is possible to establish a private school with or without a concession. Therefore, those who want to show that opponents of this school legislation or reforms oppose the establishment of private schools - you know, this is simply malicious manipulation. The problem with this legislation - among other things, because the weaknesses are enormous - is that Minister Beast wants to equalise the public and private sectors at the level of state funding. That's the problem. This is a problem pointed out by the opposition, not least by the profession. 72,000 signatures came to the National Assembly against such arrogant work. The fact remains, respected colleagues and colleagues, that due to double funding or double-funding, private schools will be in a senior position. But that doesn't mean anything, at least in my opinion, like the gradual decommissioning of public education into a private account. The Minister of the Beast said clearly and loudly a while ago, and you will also be able to read these words, and I believe that you have found black on white written, even his quote is written in one of the Slovenian officers: "Any private person entering the school system brings into it millions of funds." Then I ask why such a private person should be further financed from public funds which are already limited to public education. No! No! Minister Beast, who I actually believe doesn't even know what he's doing with school reform, because according to the data I have, they're pretty reliable. But Minister Beast insists stubbornly on the planned decommissioning of public education, and in recent times he has even been very aggressively attacking all opposers of bad changes. According to my assessment, it is unacceptable for a democratic minister or a capable government, you know that the movement of civil society is the subject of "political activism". It is even more unacceptable that 72,000 signatures collected against this public education reform are considered to be manipulation. Democracy, this is the state regulation that we are supposed to have, I say, in our country, means that the most important decisions are made by the people and not by the ruler of our own will. If anyone manipulates, it is undoubtedly the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or Minister Beast with his fellows. As time haunts me and I believe that under another law, which is still very important in relation to this law, as it is finally a matter of changing the school system in the basics, I can say more about the manipulative, destructive or absurd work of the Government of Slovenia in the field of public education. Allow me to conclude a sentence which I believe tells those who can think sober a lot. Those who are blinded by power, I believe, will not reach to the heart. Acquisition and development of knowledge cannot be achieved through class chauvinism, with the same distortion of competition as it has been in the case of six-year-olds. You know that you insisted on promoting entrepreneurship in six-year-olds as some fundamental value. I say that's bad. And I say, when we will be a real knowledge society, which is also very much appreciated by Prime Minister Janez Janša, then we will build knowledge, science and innovation with openness, cooperation and knowledge sharing and not by limiting what we are doing today, what we are doing with this reform. This reform, including due to changes in the primary school law, including the abolition of evaluations, also because of the possibility of advancing to a higher grade with a negative rating, with many other poor, incomplete changes, means in some sense the degradation of knowledge. And that's, uh, well-respected colleagues and colleagues, bad, bad. This is also pointed out by experts in this field. And you know what happened under Mr. Beast's ministry? Teachers receive a new circular with bureaucratic instructions at school each week. In fact, it is no longer important for the teacher in what way and how he will impart knowledge and what knowledge he will teach, but it is important that he correctly enter into some new forms the minute he has at school or in a class at a certain time. That's absurd. In the Slovenian National Party for this type of work or these absurdities, we simply cannot and cannot support.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! The fact is that our school system is quite developed and appropriate, as evidenced by the research of internationally recognised institutions. Therefore, with this reform of the school system, we can rightly ask ourselves why our education is being renewed and whether the effects of the changes will have a positive effect on raising the quality of Slovenian school space. On the other hand, we can expect further reform of the consequences of the lack of European and international education objectives aimed at greater autonomy of professional workers and the modernisation of school programmes in a step by increasing competitiveness, which should contribute positively to the more lasting knowledge of schoolchildren and the promotion of lifelong learning, and this should certainly lead to a higher level of education or the achievement of society. Otherwise, the revolutionary reform of education has already taken place, and for these few amendments to the primary school law, we cannot be certain and continue to claim that they will contribute to the educational and educational system merely negative consequences for young people and parents, teachers and society as a whole. Any changes and additions are more or less targeted in the light of improvements in the existing regime, as demonstrated by the need to adjust or correct the previous reform of the school system. It may not be necessary now to comment on the evidence of the professional and wider public concerned in the sense of their ignoring or disregarding their comments by the proposer. It should be remembered that the profession and the public, in their desire to participate in the reform of the school system, also encountered deaf ears in past reformation. The main issue in this novel revolves around the addition of another foreign language, changes in the selection of subjects, the flexibility of the subject or schedule and the elimination of general learning success. In the DeSUS Group, we have tried to understand the proposed changes and additions from both positive and negative perspectives. It would be very utopian to be sure that what a reform brings us will have only positive or negative effects. Thus, it is not meaningful to challenge the positiveness of foreign language learning, which in the future is already a necessity for integration into international space. However, concerns must also be expressed, mainly because of the possibility of increasing the burden on pupils, particularly those who have already had difficulties in learning the first foreign language. Of course, we do not doubt the number of quality, professional workers expected by the introduction of compulsory foreign language hard and responsible work, since so far other foreign languages have been taught in the selection framework, probably in a very relaxed environment, since they were filled by those students who had an interest in it and did not learn it under pressure of obligation. Modern school systems, where ours should also be added, are necessarily subject to continuous updating and development, with the aim of achieving sustainable development, because the education and education system is a dynamic system that needs to listen to the needs of time for the benefit of society. However, we certainly believe that such a sensitive area of social life, such as the creation of school policy and the creation of our youngest generation, necessarily requires fundamental reflection and all the responsibility of the State towards parents and their children, who will first feel the appropriateness or inappropriateness of the proposed amendments and the completion of the primary school law. All DeSUS Members do not advocate changes in education as positive and do not believe that this amendment of the law provides such educational grounds that schools will be able to fulfil their mission optimally, so we will vote on our conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Jeraj has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u18	Good-bye, everybody! The Novela Act on Primary School brings a second foreign language in the last triad, the abolition of general learning success even at the end of the remaining classes, not only in the first triad, an object that determines which subjects we will teach in the primary school and teach them now, although we did not have the legal basis for it, a curriculum prepared jointly by teachers, schoolchildren and parents, a flexible subject, the possibility that schools will be more freely allocated the weekly number of hours of individual subjects so that the attendance of the music school is taken into account as an optional subject, reducing the number of selected subjects from three to two and the selection of subjects is given free choice and not that students have to choose objects from different classes. In our view, all these innovations will bring better quality and better work in our schools, as they provide tools to achieve the goals pursued by education and education in primary school. And it's not about reform, it's about urgent corrections, because practice has pointed to some inappropriate solutions. With all the evidence of the rate of acceptance that there are no professional grounds available, we need to ask ourselves again how it is possible that the drafters of the Basic School Act and the Law on the Financing of Education and Education before the good decade did not even know what will be taught in the nine-year period when both laws were written, although at the time before the introduction of the nine-year-old was a bad year. Thus, for years and even today, we have been teaching subjects that are not in marriage. This time, the new law clearly specifies which are the compulsory objects. Why is that, one of the principals said, "And who was the worst among the ministers of the school? With a great deal of cynicism, I'd say, Slavka Gaber. He quickly became a self - assuming politician, but he acted kind and kind on the outside, but as a minister, he was stubborn and stubborn. What he imagined, the experts had to confirm." It must be said that even a good decade ago, there was no fundamental consensus on the new developments in education, and many experts, groups and individuals who had pointed out the inconsistencies in the law, the incomplete proposals, the design of changes and improvements had little practice involved. But they weren't heard. What's more, they had a lack of expertise and a lack of familiarity. Although after their education and experience, they were comparable to the experts who proposed and introduced the amendments. Five members of the National Curriculum Council also made public their disagreements with the primary school subject, which arose in the context of the curriculum recast. The professional arguments of some professions were completely ignored. If we read statistics, a visit to language courses is increased by 6% annually at Slovenian level. According to the Statistical Office, 4011 language courses were conducted in 2005, 206 and 27438 participants were recorded. Most in English, the second most popular language is German, greater than in the previous year was interest in learning French, as well as learning Italian, Spanish and Russian, Czech, Hungarian, Danish, Portuguese and Swedish, as well as Japanese, Chinese and Arabic. The number of language schools has risen rapidly in recent years, indicating that language skills are very important and that citizens and citizens are making massive decisions to learn languages. At the same time, language schools offer courses in schools and primary schools, and many children and parents decide to attend such courses. Of course, this costs a lot, given that we have teachers who teach foreign languages among the choice subjects. Our education system must follow these trends so that we do not face problems in a decade. As we are facing structural unemployment today, for example, the lack of doctors, medical personnel, because we have not seen trends at the right time, and we know which professions will be lacking for a certain period of time. There is no evidence that general learning success has a significant impact on the student’s motivation. There's pressure on them before, and there's pressure on teachers. Why did we stop him in the first triad? Indeed, we have moved on to a descriptive evaluation; we could still have a general learning success if it is such a powerful motivational factor, and we do not have it. Are children therefore less or more motivated in the 1st, 2nd and 3rd classes? The fact is that learning success is a motivation for good students, excellent and very good. For those of us who have been successful for all these years, we can tell them that they are good enough, but they certainly are not. Even if an individual was brilliant in any of the objects, we don't know that, but he's only good, average. The information we give him with this and thus do harm to his self-image is that he is average, in short, nothing special. Selection items are slightly different, as suggested by young people. It's up to you to make a choice and not force it. In the opinion of our parliamentary group, we are upgrading the introduction of a nine-year-old in which we have demonstrated in all these years what we have paid little attention to and what it would be worthwhile to upgrade and further develop. Today we can measure everything that was good, and we can see what caused the problems and did not bring the desired and anticipated results. Since the general consideration of the primary school law proposed by the coalition and the public debate we supported on the opposition's proposal, several months have passed. At that time, the gathering of signatures, which we have already heard about today, has taken place and will be heard of. I would like to know whether the signatories are against the introduction of another foreign language in the last triad, against the abolition of general learning success even at the end of the remaining classes, against the subject, which determines which subjects we will teach in the primary school, against the curriculum, against the flexible subject, against the fact that the attendance of the music school is considered as an elective subject, against the reduction in the number of elective subjects from 3 to 2 against the free choice in the selection subjects. No, at least not those signatories I spoke to myself. And they said they supported all of this and not against the proposed primary school law, but that was not the case. I respect the students and students who have joined the signing campaign. They were collected after high school without explanation to the students on the bench, including with the help of teachers. Did they explain what they were signing? They even gathered in the student arena, where it is not difficult for several thousand young people to collect signatures for anything. I would like to know how many of them have read the letter to our Members under whom they have signed. A lot of people haven't seen him at all. I ask students and students whether they are against the introduction of another foreign language, against the reduction of the number of selection content, elective subjects and against the fact that it is a school of music attended by many of our children to be considered as an object of choice. It surprises me that young people against changes that improve the situation of schoolchildren are fewer students because we are talking about the primary school law, although we will find students and students among the signatories in particular. It surprises us so much more because they have given a different position in the children's parliament, both in terms of choice of subjects and in terms of educational subjects or the introduction of a curriculum. I am pleased that there are many members of the pension society among the signatories, because this indicates their concern for the education of grandchildren and employees in the coal mines of Velenje. It is interesting that the Syndicate of Education and Science is so present among the miners, among the employees of the Geodetic Institute, the Goriški Museum, the Agricultural and Agriculture Institute and other organisations. Of course, if they have read the statement and have not been misled by the signature collectors, what they actually sign. You know, the signatures were also collected in 1998. In early September 1998, teachers of technology, together with teachers of art, initiated by five critical members of the then National Curriculum Council, began collecting signatures for a different model of the nine-year elementary school. Over 3,000 signatures of parents and teachers were collected within two weeks. Then the gathering of signatures was gravely halted. As the art teachers of elementary schools have publicly reported, in some primary schools, teachers who have collected signatures have been hampered by directors not to allow them to do so. The school’s leadership threatened teachers with intervention and threats from the Ministry of Education with a disciplinary commission and urged other teachers, classmates, not to make demands for signatures to their parents. We will support the new law on primary school in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group because we are confident that our basic school system will improve and create a pleasant and stimulating environment for students and teachers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A full discussion is under way on the proposal for a law. Procedurally, please, ma'am. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u20	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure, I declare the absence of the Group of Social Democrats on this agenda item. This is about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u21	Ma'am mag. I'd like to tell you something. Only the head of the parliamentary group or his deputy may instruct the obstruction. I don't have that information for you to be one or the other. It's the rules of procedure. I don't know how they did it before, but I'm gonna follow the rules of procedure. Please, Mr. Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I'm following a colleague of mags. Majdi Patrati and I declare that her words are correct and that the Group of Members announces obstruction in the debate and vote on this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u23	I accept your announcement, Mr Potch, because I know you are the leader of the Group of Members. Thank you very much. Mr. Mitja Slavinec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. It is entirely expected and, in some way, logically that the majority is voting on the minority, i.e. that the coalition is legitimately voting on the opposition. They also have the right not to listen to the proposals we have been making all the time. That's justice, too. But it's not the wisest thing to do. Surely, however, it is very unwise to do so stubbornly to oppose the wide circle, one of the broadest objections, the interested and professional public, as we have heard that both teachers and interested parents, old parents, have gathered signatures. And I'm sure that's the reason we decided not to participate in this part of the LDS. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u25	Mr. Dr. Slavinac!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u26	I also have this explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u27	I listened to your explanation. But now that you have announced the obstruction, I will tell you, too, that you cannot do so, especially the leader of your delegation's group or his deputy. I'm following the rules. I respect him, you respect him. That's how it was accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u28	Dear President, I have not yet announced anything. I just want to read what I'm going to hand over in writing, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u29	If you say anything else, I'll apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u30	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the DZ, I declare that all members of the PKLDS Group are absent from consideration of the 25th item, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Primary Schools, the third is considered. Signature, Josef Školč, head of the parliamentary club. And I'm handing you our obstruction in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I don't apologize because it's perfectly clear. There can be no authority, only the head of the delegation or his deputy may indicate. If you give it in writing, if it's signed, I'll take it. Thank you very much, I accept. Mrs. Žginer Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Allow me, Mr President, otherwise I wanted to make a procedural proposal, but because you corrected the obvious error that you wanted to make when you took into account the mandate, because we will continue with this work in the Slovenian National Party if you continue to do so, with the authority to announce obstruction. No hesitation, ma'am, you are taking part in the holding of the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u33	I don't know what kind of punishment I'm getting with your words, but with what I said at the beginning, I'm going to insist. I'll follow the rules of procedure. It's either funny or not. Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u34	Thank you very much. As Deputy Head of the Delegation Group, Mr Zares, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, shall inform that the Zares Group will not participate in the discussion and consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Basic School Act. We have listened attentively to the presentations of the positions of the groups of Members that report that they will support these changes that we oppose. Not only do we, but parents also oppose them, but those who are employed in mines, in mountain museums and so on, as parents do, and who are not on some blacklist are opposed by others. There are many of these unheard objections, and we believe that without dialogue on such fateful changes, which touch upon each of us who has children attending primary school and with changes that he disagrees with, in short, we do not support the law and that is why we will no longer discuss it because we will reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u35	Thank you very much. You have given an opinion or a statement as Deputy Head of the Parliamentary Group, Mrs Shirca. Thank you very much. Mr. Slavko Gaber, an unrelated Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In my name - I hope that I have this right - I will also explain why I do not intend to participate in this meeting. As important laws as those adopted today will be adopted for the first time in this House, without having to sit here practically half of Parliament. For the first time in the history of this country, it appears that people in the referendum will also decide on such sensitive issues. To this end, the policy of the ruling coalition is at its best. True, there have always been debates in this country, and this is hot when it comes to school legislation. It is not only in Slovenia, so it is in all countries. However, few countries in which such a high number of signatures would be so stubborn, with such unanimous opposition to the profession, questioning some fundamental solutions, anyone who persists and leads his own to the end. For example, in previous reforms, for one year after a proposal by the then authorities, the introduction of reforms has moved away so that the profession can be unified. We'd need something like that today and here. I still expect that the ruling coalition, also taught by what is going on here, will reflect before the vote and move what it wants to bring forward quickly, at another time. Since, as it now shows, this consideration has not yet been done, I will try to contribute with my absence from this session to reflect on it. Ladies and gentlemen, this country deserves and needs to build up the school system, it is not perfect, but it is good enough that it is worth further serious consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Allow me to ask you, in the first place, that those who assist you in the conduct of the meeting coordinate with each other, because the instructions of Mr Plevelje are clear and loud, the Group of Members may, with the authority, order obstruction. And let me do it now. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we declare the absence of all members of the Slovenian National Party Group when considering the 25th agenda item of the 32nd meeting. The reasons were given in the presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, submitted by the Member of the Slovenian National Party, Barbara Žgajner Tavš, with the signature of the Head of the SNS Parliamentary Group, Mr Zmag Jelinčič Plemeniti. Despite the sneezing of the lady who is taking part in the management of the session, I am officially handing over the document to you now.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for teaching me how to run a session. I accept a written certificate, just like you first. Thank you very much. A full discussion is under way on the proposal for a law. We're moving on. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Lovingly greeted, respected colleagues and colleagues, those who remain in the hall, and also those who leave us, the distinguished secretary with coworkers. I must say that I am also disappointed at how some have explained so far how important marriages are being dealt with, and now they are leaving the hall. As is the case with the adoption of provincial legislation. In view of the fact that there is a 2008 budget rebalancing and the 2009 budget ahead of us, and given the evidence previously indicated that less money is spent on education in terms of gross social product, I would like to mention the following. The budget for the Ministry of Education and Sport is increasing as well as for other ministries. However, if we measure from the point of view of gross social product, I must say that this Government is trying to reduce the deficit. If we also go to the other ministries in the field of assessment from this point of view, there is a proportionate increase or reduction in all. And if we want what exactly the opposition is explaining to us that the deficit would be good at a time of good economic growth, then I can't imagine how we could solve it without reducing public spending. But in this field of education, it's no worse. We are introducing the so-called private investment option, and in that area, in fact, at least as much will be built in the future as it has been in the past. Surely, however, there is more money on the program than there has been so far. With regard to the changes I can say, I am sure that my colleagues in the New Slovenia Group agree with me, I do not know why so much dust on these changes. With regard to these changes, which in the final stage are following some of the objectives of actually improving education. And I'm only going to do two areas, further introduction of another foreign language. I must say that I would support this proposal, and I would never care which government would suggest it because it seems so important to me. I would ask respected colleagues and colleagues who are here, especially those who have left the hall, whether they are 40, 50 or later attending another course. I know that many Members and Members of Parliament are now attending a foreign language course because we urgently need it. Either someone attends a math class or a history course; perhaps it would be good for someone to take such a course as to explain the budget and so forth. But these are the facts. And the opposition to that, I really don't get it. I would still be glad that in those young years, when we attended primary school or high school, we had this opportunity. And I think the child can most absorb from this area right in primary school. In fact, as has been said many times before, parents want a child to take basic steps in kindergarten on a foreign language. As far as general learning is concerned, I must say that, as mayor, I have had an excellent student reception for many years at the end of the school year. I think it was a beautiful event, both for us who accepted these students, the congregation administration, as well as for the school and these students. Now it will probably happen to me at the end of the next school year that someone will come to this ceremony, including the one that may have been deprived in the past, the one who may have had just one stone in the mosaic between these hundreds or thousands of stones missing that it was not excellent. In fact, the school or principals or teachers will make a list of those who are to attend. And I'm sure I'll be glad of everyone, because I've thought about it a lot, but maybe we've done something wrong. I will not explain the other amendments to this law and conclude that this law is certainly necessary for parents and local communities to expect much from this law. And I will definitely support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Very nice greetings to all, especially to the Minister and his associates! Nice greetings to fellow students and colleagues who are in the hall! Greetings to all those who have fled from the moment of truth! I fully understand why there are no opposition at this time. With the help of their influence in the media they still have, by occasionally making small noises at our expense, they were able to achieve that the debate on school legislation was such that it was already a violation of the right to know. People simply had no opportunity to know what it was, and they were even gravely deceived. I'll talk about it later, and I also announced this yesterday at a meeting where everything was planned so that none of those who could say anything would show up, but it was taken care of, we ruined the game. Thus, at the next item of the agenda, when it comes to the law on financing education and education, I will expose all these games. That's why I understand because they know that they've escaped. I know because they're terrified of it. Because when their voters saw that they had not only dragged them by their noses, but that they were making a fool of their own electorate, that they were smoking passions for things they had done themselves, that they were smoking passions in a way that made people angry, and that even if people followed their advice, what they had warned them would still apply. Because they did it themselves, it's going to be a very fun situation. It's fun for us, but it's definitely not fun for them. So once again, I welcome all the opposition that fled before its moment of truth. However, I will make sure that this moment of truth will take place in the opening part of the next item on the agenda when the law on financing education and education will be on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u44	A nice greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament who have stayed in the Chamber, to the Minister with fellow Members, and of course to all the opposition who are probably listening to our debate now in secret or elsewhere. I hope they will listen well, but they may find out something new, a new fact. When I listened here today to the views of opposition parliamentary groups, I wondered, yes, what government we have in Slovenia, yes, what ministry of education we have, which is trying to destroy an excellent Slovenian school system. This is not serious, of course it is not serious, because I think we have a good government and a good ministry and that we all want only the best Slovenian education. The purpose of the law is certainly to improve our education. Personally, I am sure that we have a good primary school in Slovenia, but I am even more sure that this good elementary school can be improved. I also wonder many times what the state of our society is, what state of spirit we are Slovenians - as a nation, Slovenia - as a country. I find it very difficult to accept that we have come to a stage when we have to have a security job in primary school. This fact is simply very, very difficult to accept. That is why I find this novelty brought about by this law, namely, the introduction of a curriculum into our primary school, to be very important. Here is a point where parents and teachers can do one program together, draw one path that will be our education, not just education, but general conditions lead to the fact that there will be no need to have security services in primary school. Another matter, another foreign language. I have to say that at first I was a little bit self-absorbed about it, because I thought enough is enough if we had a choice. But I think in this area, given the fact that we are a very open society, that we are in the European Community, where there are no borders, this need for foreign languages is really great. And with that, I'm sure we're just making our best wishes come true for our future people, for our children. Perhaps it is right to say that in this deception, which was at the expense of another foreign language here, in this Chamber, it is a little earlier said that the number of hours of the first foreign language is decreasing at the expense of the introduction of the second foreign language. It just doesn't hold. The number of hours of the first foreign language remains [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u45	Excuse me, Mr Grimes, I'd like to ask you nicely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u46	unchanged. [[...]] In addition to the compulsory foreign language, children will still have the option to choose a foreign language as a selection subject. I think this is one big thing, an added opportunity that our children can take advantage of. I will conclude by saying that I am confident that these changes in the law we introduce will certainly bring first and foremost positive things for our education.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Maybe just a few comments. I witnessed, as mayor, the introduction of a nine-year-old, at the time was Mr. Gaber's minister, and I've already said this publicly before, the municipalities were founders, and they are still today, primary schools. The procedure was conducted with complete ignorance. We collected signatures, I think about 100 municipalities, 92 mayors, because we only wanted to participate actively in the preparation of this school tsunami, which went into effect, definitely into force. And today we still feel its consequences, especially in that children are extremely busy and do not have time in some schools or for lunch. My son this moment, 10 minutes in the seventh grade of elementary school. But it's 7:16 in the morning at school. Sorry, that's not normal. This system is destroying children. And thank God this Government has taken at least one small step in this direction of decommissioning. Of course, those who do not have children or have one or two are full of ideas on how to teach our children, and those who do, perhaps more. And I strongly oppose such an approach. When someone asks me abroad, because you didn't actually have real communism in Slovenia, I always say to him: "Yes, yes, out of the blue, we had ideological totalitarianism and we still have it and it's going right through the school system." Mr Gaber, this is my assessment, has made him very strong, and he is helped, unfortunately, by a union that does not deal with what he is doing, by improving the quality of teaching, by the well-being of the teacher, by reducing the bureaucratic barriers that teachers are dealing with, by allowing teachers to manage children. I'm sorry. I hope I've been teaching for 15 years. At least 10% of teachers can't even have a basic order in class. I hope to say it at any time, but the union doesn't deal with it. He is not concerned with the quality and proper reward of the teacher, the teacher is today rewarded for what he does outside the classroom, but not for what he does with his children in school and so on, not to mention. Unfortunately, this ideological totalitarianism drags on and only from this point of view can I explain the obstruction, in my opinion, of relatively insignificant substantive proposals made by the Government. I have to say, I really don't see any giant shifts in the system here. I'd like to take faster and bigger steps. Especially from the point of view of children and the quality of teaching. Children today may not even be able to read when they graduate from primary school, since the approach seems to have changed so much that some people are not lying and cannot be expected to read half the pages of the current text after finishing primary school. Maybe it's just one brief note, and I think that these changes that are proposed here actually don't deserve the attention that they are now making. But she's on the run, and I'll say it again, by sticking to this ideological line at the intersection. And it's on our kids. Above all, those who also made a public statement years ago that more than one child did not. I think that this human aspect needs to be taken into account here as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister with co-workers. I am very pleased, Mr Minister, that you have demented a lie so quickly, told by my colleague Žgajner Tavševa, that you are wandering around Europe, and that you have shown yourself here. But that was said, not only at the expense of Europe, because she obviously knew that you were in the country because we are part of Europe, and that is also something bad. This country is also bad for some. And that is also one of the main reasons for shouting and screaming, for smooching and for all that these changes of law give a little more importance to the country, that it is also introduced as a compulsory subject of domestic education, civic responsibility. This is for an ideological block that comes from communist roots, something terrible. As a matter of fact, it is still likely that this internationalistic education has been primarily applied so far, and their foundations are collapsing here. But I firmly believe that our children must be brought up in patriotism. That they must be aware of who the national heroes are, who are the founders of this country, because if any of these were any of them, then it would not have happened that some individuals, such as Dr. Joseph Pučnik's birthplace, would have cried and screamed when the local community suggested that the primary school be named after him. And unfortunately, there are some teachers among them. They are ashamed of the foundations of their new country. And who can answer me where you will hear or see in Europe something that is a shame to remember the national heroes or the great Slovenians who justified this country. And because of the fact that Mikolić said earlier that many attend classes because they need it and wondered what kind of course Members should go to, I think that those who have left today in demonstration would need a course of civic responsibility and national education. They did not have it obvious, they now oppose it, and although obstruction is a legitimate institution, it is completely incomprehensible that when adopting legislation in which everyone is honestly, I think that at least on this side, we are trying to lead our children in a direction that, when they finish their education, they are trained for their careers, that they are successful in life and are trained in their love for their homeland. Far from being true is what they claim to be burdening and squeezing people to be fatal changes. For them, domestic education, civic responsibility and with exactly the same arguments were collected signatures. They collected signatures in the same way as the Social Democrats in their party. They spread how democratic they are for the new policy, how new political behaviour and how they are in a way saying that they have Borut Pahor in their place. But the interior is completely different, and it's still ideologically totalitarian. And it's the same thing. People were given documents to sign and intimidated by changes that are not even on the list of non-existent laws. And this is the classic deception of the people, as was the case at this time of communism. And by chance, I think it's less coincidental for the same people who once took part in the deception of the people. Therefore, gentlemen, even those sitting on the balcony, equalize the inscriptions in front of the inn and the content you offer inside. Don't offer what you don't serve at the bar. Even though you're masters of this, that's why you went to political schools in Kumrovec. That's right. That was a very good school. I must say, I was glad to have listened to a colleague today who presented their views on behalf of the Social Democrats. And I have to say that she brought in so much anger and soreness that I thought that if anyone came close at that point, she could have scratched someone's eyes. And I don't know why talking with such anger, with such gallantness. And she said why they object to the introduction of another language. Today, we have repeatedly said that this is absolutely necessary for the Slovenians at the present time. Because we are working with the world and we will have to work together every day, the world is more global every day. And now a lot of parents who have this option, and these are better placed virtually everyone, send children into an optional foreign language class. And that turned out to be a necessity. But they object to the fact that the children of those parents who are not well placed would also receive these ratings. They are concerned with social differentiation so that one of them can be convicted of performing less valuable professions in order to be physical workers at the expense of those who have not survived on the basis of their abilities. And we know that the recruitment in the previous regime was pronounced on the basis of ideological assumptions. And they have created a higher standard and they still enjoy it, and now they are trying to preserve their privileges through the school system to degrade one. Others should not be given another foreign language in primary school because we can afford it, they claim, and others should be for physical professions. And I'm sure the people at the referendum they're threatening will realize how insidious such assumptions are. It's a lot of gibberish. But typically, they were always talking about solidarity, about social justice, and they were doing the exact opposite, and that's what they're doing. You say one thing, you mean another. And some of those who have left or individuals who have things in their hands are strongly motivated to do so. In the framework of education, in the context of the publication of books, textbooks, there have been the development of exceptional lobbying, material interests. Here the textbooks were not published because of the needs of the school and the students, but because of clearly clear material interests. And in these interests, those who have come along after ideological qualifications will do their utmost to preserve these privileges. They are guided by material interests, not the interests of Slovenian children and so on. In these changes, perhaps with the current view, the only tactical reason that I would be able to say is that if I had counseled today, we would have missed the abandonment of learning success, general success. I know that this is in line with all the standards and teaching findings and will certainly give birth to positive success in the future. Children will feel more free, they will have more motivation. However, it is true that consciousness and behaviour among people are a little behind schedule and that it may be difficult for Slovenians to convince us that we are different here from the Scandinavians who first introduce such things and have obvious benefits in the social and economic development of their countries. Maybe we Slovenians are a little more conservative here, and these gentlemen are going to be hunting Slovenians in the referendum. Although it was those experts with whom they spoke so much that they were working on it and came from their laboratories, now they are against it because of pure ideological and political tendencies, because the Slovenians are a little behind and we are critical of novelties, which are otherwise highly professionally justified. If I could, I'd let it go, but there's no way to let it go today. That is how I express my views on the changes that are not radical, which are not fatal, which are necessary, which are going in the right direction, and which will also, I hope, with more education, both civil and domestic, as well as different, bring the school back to track so that the schools can give up security, which has become a general need at the time of Gabre's changes and Gabra's education. I firmly believe that with the right changes in education, we will once again put an end to this. That schools will breathe freely, that there will be no fear that the school will not be the place where the drugs have been scattered, as has been the case in this past period that those who are collecting will want to prolong so far the bad things of that period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague. Although I do not have much time, I would like to say that I truly regret that most of the seats of the opposition are empty. Perhaps the opposition has considered that it is not worth participating in this legislation, which is not really a major change, to be relatively small changes. Perhaps because they do not want to praise these changes because of the nature of the opposition or because they lacked the argument to attack them. The opposition, among other things, is topot and grunts because schools, in addition to the annual work plan, will also have to draw up a curriculum under this legislation. I'm just going to focus on this point, which I particularly welcome in this novelty of marriage. And I'm going to tell you one of my bitter experiences that I'll never forget. When I was appointed by the founder to the world of the primary school where I had three children, I tried to write in the statutes of the institution between activities and education - you will not believe, you will not succeed. We had three rounds, three sessions, and in the end, the lawyer who advised the world of the institution, the highest authority of the institution, said, "This is the direction we received from Ljubljana." I bite my lips because I want to be fair and I don't want to name names [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Gentlemen, who was then a school minister and he's not here, but if he were here, I'd say it three times. [[...]] Until our children finish primary school will have at least two sentences to say about each of Slovenia's national holidays, we will not have a good primary school until then. And when I really remember those years ago [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] When we should not have written in the statutes that the school is also carrying out educational activities, then I do wonder, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, where we lived. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It's a little strange that we're sitting here in a small number, and I'm wondering, what are our colleagues running from, what are they afraid of? Maybe they don't want to praise anything because it wouldn't be in their honor, and on the other hand, I can ask what they're afraid of in this change of law. Are they afraid of another foreign language? I'm very surprised by that. Perhaps I am also surprised, and perhaps you could understand, the abandonment of general success - are they afraid of rationalisation in schools? By no means, never, at any time at any time can I understand why they run away from the introduction of native citizenship education. But you will never convince me of this, not at midnight, in the morning, not at half past three and not at half past nine. And even after they start pouring alcohol, you won't convince me there's anything wrong with native citizenship. Are you running from the truth, or from the reality, or from the responsibility; are you running from arguments, or are you running from research, which also speaks of school? I don't know if you're afraid of responsibility because you've collected signatures with lies, manipulations and pressures? I can say this with certainty because I walked by the stand every day and also listened to what was said on those stands. It was all about everything, but not about the content of the law. And I would also like to tell you that those who signed didn't know what they were signing, because, forgive them, they were the ones who were there who didn't know the law, and they made what they were told. They told them about the salt, I don't know what, but that you wouldn't think and that I was talking to you, I'd read something to you. I have also personally received certain e-mails, letters in the parliamentary groups and will read to you: "In high school", I will not call them, "teachers, sympathizers and members of the SWIZ union, students who, during their study on the table, provide written support forms, a union for a quality public school. I ask you to do something." Now I'm going to ask you - what is this? In the first year of high school at the table, now sign a charter for a high-quality public school. Is that possible politicization already? Is this possible in the style of Dr. Lukšič, who is ordering his students to control civil society institutions? Has this even happened at elementary school now? Do not force a full-year-old citizen to sign some political declarations! And now I'm going to read you a specific letter: "In the next letter, I want to inform you of a very unloving event that took place today in high school." I'm not gonna give you a name, you're gonna figure that out later, for what, from the text. "At the time of schooling" - this is a second high school, as I mentioned earlier - the representative of the class community lobbied to collect signatures against the new school law. Some high school students signed a petition, some refused to sign. I am of the opinion that students cannot decide whether to support or not to support the law solely on the basis of some biased thoughts. The representative gave the students a simplified description of the new law, which she apparently received at the school parliament meeting the day before. When we decide whether to sign or vote any matter, we must have a time to think about it, we can listen to each other, and in this case the students have two options: to sign or not to sign. As part of the teaching assembly opposes the introduction of a new law, I am appalled when I think what will happen if the list comes into the hands of teachers who oppose the introduction of a new law. Of course, not all students are on this list, but the lack of teachers could be bullied. I therefore believe that this procedure of abuse of children's rights is for political purposes, for which it is essential to include the Ombudsman. Perhaps it would be right to inform the President of the Commission on Human Rights of equal opportunities and so on. "Of course, I believe that the teaching assembly can be defined by the new law as it wishes, and that our children must not be involved in this at all. I myself am politically quite active, but I must point out that I do not know enough reasons for or against the new law at this time. If I want to define this, I need a large number of information that will provide me with a basis for support or non-support. But our children have to make their own decisions in five minutes." So, these are two written comments or opinions, or they're just asking for something to be done -- what's going on in our schools. And one here really wonders what to do with such nimbleness and so eager to defend himself from making any changes. Are they defending the privileges - I don't know which ones. Is it possible that this is a textbook lobby? Obviously it has to be for some benefit, because otherwise it would not be with such zeal and would not mislead people at kiosks and stands to sign something that has nothing to do with the content - what is signed - of any relationship. Is it possible that someone has not yet been able to learn from the skin of targeted education, which was essentially politically motivated, which was politically oriented and professionally driven? At that time, we completely lost some professions, some professions, because we went to some general political direction and political subjects in schools because they were the most important. I just don't understand and today you're avoiding debate, avoiding hearing the other side. You only know your side that you represent, we know it, and you don't want to listen to our arguments, why it would be right to make such changes. You don't want to listen, stay away, run! I don't understand this, and I'm afraid this is because it's you and your party that are not here today, but I hope you're listening, you're the most for some cultural dialogue, for listening to each other, for making arguments on the table, for professional reasons. It is true that you speak of the profession - only those who think the same way and think the same things and have the same views as you. Other professions that have a different opinion, you don't even qualify as a professional. Dear colleagues, the other side has arguments, others are right, others have completed schools, others have knowledge, others know something to show, others know something to say, and they have already done something in life, and you avoid facing arguments. And that's what's worst. And if this has already come to pass, it is professional, that this is a profession that escapes arguments that run from reality that flees from reality, that escapes from education for the future in schools, because our children will be on the labour market of the European Community, on the global market when they have to accept or face challenges, and others will be prepared, and our children may not be. And you avoid that kind of dialogue! And that's why I don't understand why you ran away from this hall, so I'm going to support these changes, because I think they're good, and that's the only thing that can get us so that our children can face children from other countries equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Respectable present, especially present, a beautiful greeting to those who listen to us. The debate on this school legislation has been very long in my opinion, but it is never too long and it is right that we are also discussing these issues today. It saddens me that the opposition has left the parliamentary bench. I'm sure they're listening to us, but I'm kind of embarrassed about who I'm going to give this debate to. And perhaps, given that citizens and citizens are looking at us, I might direct these questions, which I will now ask them, to them. I'm asking. Is this bad if this novel gives more autonomy to schools? Is it bad to relieve teachers, to remove administrative obstacles? Is it bad to introduce another foreign language? Is it bad to take care of students with special needs so that they can become more involved in regular departments? Is it bad that those students attending a music school will have this considered as an elective class? General success is overturned. Is the news brought by this legislation so bad that it makes no sense to talk about it? I myself think not, I think these changes are absolutely necessary and good. It's mostly politics and nothing else. I believe that this new legislation introduces modern elements of education in primary schools. The fact is that each of us has a different view or view of this issue and of the general consensus of all citizens and citizens we will never reach. The key comments referred to by the most opposition Members and a part of the professional public are, in particular, to the introduction of another foreign language and to the abolition of general learning success. I myself believe that times have changed and knowledge of the foreign language is urgently needed. In fact, the introduction of another foreign language increases the choice and not the other way around, as the opposition Members say. There will be more options for the second item, because it is now being introduced as an obligation. Let's look at our experiences in life in the previous common country when we were learning two foreign languages, and I think no one is sorry that we learned Serbian at the time, because now it's good for us. But now times have changed, the world is globalising, we are in the European Union, more knowledge means more opportunities. Finally, because I think that something no longer makes sense, because the opposition no longer wants to participate in this debate, all I would say is that the mission of the school is to give knowledge and to give moral and ethical standards. I think that's exactly what this bill is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. It may not be enough to add to what I said in the opening debate. In every way, we probably all know what the primary school is supposed to give to children. This has been pointed out by children in the children's parliament, that the school does not teach them enough to live, that there is not enough conversation between classes and that the school teaches them little about life. We probably wanted to push a lot of things into primary school in the past, but the fact is that primary school has to give young people confidence, it has to motivate them to take the initiative to do something for themselves. Perhaps, though, with today’s elementary school, with few exceptions from very good teachers who engaged, we were not able to do so in the right way. As I said, I believe that with the novelty and the changes we are introducing, we are making better conditions or that all the goals we have written in the first articles of the Basic School Act will be better achieved. Our goal must be motivated, active, educated, innovative citizen, and this is first acquired by children in primary school, because kindergartens are very good and I think we do not upgrade things then in primary school further as it should be.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with the proposer? Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished public! I am sorry that there is no entire National Assembly here in this debate on the amendment to the Basic School Act. I'd like to apologize first thing, considering I was missing this morning. My task has been well done by the Secretary of State, who presented the introduction, as it is appropriate before any debate on the novel. I did not come to Europe, as one of the Members of the National Assembly said. I even cut my work trip short for one day and looked for all possible ways to get to the beginning of today’s treatment in time. It was a real odyssey to come back at this hour as I did, but I succeeded, but not purely, so I apologize to you, also to the Slovenian public, but sometimes it is difficult to reconcile business matters. Surely what I've heard has been a lot of good debates where you've given the main points of view and the goals of the novel that bring these novels. There is probably no need to stress once again the importance of learning as many foreign languages as possible today in a globalizing world. We only introduce another foreign language into one part of basic education. And it's nothing more than we've had ourselves at our disposal. Even at the time of our primary education, we had two foreign languages and we were learning two. Some today oppose or deny this possibility to children. I would like you to understand that all this time - and this is about one year since this process of adopting this legislation, this law - has been a process where we have brought our views closer to different social and political partners. I do not know the law that would take so long a debate or a pre-debate before these novels arrived, but in particular the Law on Primary School, which is now under discussion, in the formal procedure. There were also very broad debates at the political level with the parliamentary groups. It therefore surprises me that the culmination of this debate, which should have taken place today, should the Slovenian public be able to find out again about the argument and the arguments - that it will not receive it. I have a very clear conscience regarding the preparation of this marriage. The law was constantly being prepared in a transparent, direct dialogue, and we also summed up many proposals, including trade unions and other social political partners. So this is really some optimal compromise that could have happened. This novel is a reflection of compromise, although we are aware that this Government also has a special responsibility to the Slovenian public by performing its function in 2004, but we have done everything we can to avoid voting with our proposals from other minorities. There has been good cooperation all the time - at least I think so - there have also been many bad words spoken, including some incorrect actions by social partners, but we have tried to lead the dialogue by making it as less ideological as possible, but unfortunately, as I have pointed out several times, the school field is a very fruitful field for ideological debates, and I am sorry that it is so. I hope that you, honourable Members, will support this novel and that it will be easier to achieve the goals that we have set with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 25.10.2007. I am putting to the debate Article 47 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members, as well as the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 26th agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. Agenda item - This is the third defence proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of cultivation and education within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Here you go, Minister, Dr. Beast.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! Allow me a brief introduction on the amendment of the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. More or less, we have stressed the general goals and goals of this temple, the National Assembly, on several occasions. The novel emphasises new objectives, additional objectives such as health, education for sustainable development, home education and the like. As you know, we introduce free textbooks in primary schools. This law also allows for free extended stay in the 5th grade of primary school, so far it has been stipulated that half the parents can be financed. The novelty also brings something very important, sets the level of education, very clearly defines what level of education teachers and educators should achieve, say. That seems very, very important to me. This part of the novel is practically necessary and must be adopted, including due to the overall reform that is taking place after the Bologna processes - I am thinking about the higher education reform that awaits this legal provision - but it also has some broader implications in the process of negotiating wage policy. It will certainly make a significant contribution to improving quality. In addition, we lay down certain rules of the game, such as self-evaluation, the role and importance of the evaluation world, as well as the criteria. The novel itself introduces nothing new about the concept of private education. You know, you solved this issue in this house in the mid-1990s, and some of you were involved in the adoption of this legislation in 1996. In the mid-1990s a white book was also adopted, which very clearly defines the concept of private education. What we want to do here is also allow economic operators to enter school space, including economic operators in school space. With this, I would like to reject that judgment that says that only the Catholic Church wants to make life easier in the school space. Of course it's not true, of course it's not true. So far, economic operators have been excluded from school space. Who, for example, would better train and train, give skills and competences, say, to what student, apprentice, also what good Slovenian company, which thus far has not been able to deal with this activity, and after that it will be possible to do so. It is true that we are also eliminating discrimination against those schools and those children, those who are now less funded than some others, and applying the same funding method to all those who implement public programmes. We also made it clear that it is not possible to introduce tuition, which means, in other words, that we want to increase the possibility of equal access to education. This also addresses the issue of social diversity. We're launching a facility. Once again, the possibility of setting up centres. This is not a regulation, but the founder of these schools - not a state - will decide this, together with other contractors, of course, whether it is prudent and reasonable to set up centres. This isn't just about [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] economic impact, economic effect, but it's also about other things. [[...]] More careful surveillance can also save some school if it joins a center. The novela also brings a clearer definition of pedophile matters. We have also introduced this on the initiative of some Members who are now so strongly opposed to the whole [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, co-workers, co-workers! Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! From the beginning of the discussion of proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, we in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia have pointed out that the proposed changes and additions should be based on the necessary analysis and assessment of the current situation. Since we have been and are still convinced that some changes are necessary, we, along with the other opposition Members, have proposed the preparation of a new White Paper and, as part of its preparation, would allow for the widest possible professional and public debate on the necessary changes to school legislation. Since this has not been done, we were also warned by 13 civil society organisations about the inadequacy and weaknesses of marriage solutions in the proposed law in early July, but the Minister, as well as our warnings to civil society organisations, has remained deaf and has already demonstrated his attitude towards social dialogue. In the LDS Club, we considered that only a few pages of the thesesis were not enough for such important legal changes, so together with the rest of the opposition we proposed a public presentation of the opinions in the National Assembly before the second reading of the amendments and the addition of the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. However, this proposal showed the whole arrogance of the majority in the coalition, as a public presentation of the opinions in the National Assembly was not possible until after the second reading of the law on the home labour body. Thus, a complementary bill has already been prepared, and most articles that substantially change the legal solution so far have been closed and could no longer be amended, with amendments. Such a practice is unusual for strengthening democratic decision-making procedures and a very negative communication for the professional and interested civil society, for its maximum involvement in legislative procedures. Instead of content arguments, power arguments prevailed, as the ruling majority rejected all calls from the professional and interested public on the indiscretion of legal solutions and the ruling majority rejected virtually all the opposition's amendments. Therefore, in the LDS Club, we are concerned that the Government does not give its proposals a fundamental emphasis to the construction of a system of quality public education that would allow access to quality education for the largest possible number of Slovenes and Slovenes. As part of the first reading of legislative changes and the second reading amendments, we have pointed out the fundamental shortcomings of the proposed novel. Although the Minister has worked very hard to present the proposed changes in public as an effort to improve the quality of primary and secondary education, the text of the law can, in particular, highlight efforts to rationalise it. In this spirit, we understand the proposals for the creation of educational centres created by the integration of kindergartens and schools. Since this is possible already after the current legislation, the question remains, of course, why are the proposed changes going in a direction that allows for the removal of legal personality to the centre of united kindergartens or schools. Efforts to relieve non-peduary officials are therefore becoming absurd, as a solution is possible when the directors are no longer identified by the founding act. The proposed changes, which constitute the rationalisation of public education at the primary and secondary levels, are taken into account in the proposal for changes that speak of changed ones, i.e. by a new 100% way of financing private schools. At the LDS Club, we oppose the proposed solution to the financing of private schools equivalent to the financing of public schools, and the Minister's argument that this eliminates the so far poor regulation that provides private schools with funding from a budget of 85% of the funds they receive from public schools. The international comparison already shows that this is a relatively high proportion in relation to the funds allocated to private education in Europe. In doing so, we reiterate the position of the European Court of Human Rights, which imposes upon countries the duty to systematically enable private schools to be established but not to be financed. So far, high funding for private schools in Slovenia has made sense to us in the LDS Club, because we all want quality schools and quality education for all students. However, we must not forget that, with 100% private school funding, private schools will receive additional funding from the founder. This could mean that private schools will have a more favourable material position and, as a result, we can expect better students or students to do so. We can also expect poorer material conditions in public schools based on the share of funds in the social gross education product, which shows a downward trend by type of year after 2005. There is a real danger that the rich and ideologically suitable access to an elite church school, namely private schools financed by the State, will be reduced by public education for less money. It is therefore incomprehensible to us at the LDS that the Minister is not the first priority to ensure the best possible material base and quality of public education. The Minister should focus his efforts on efforts to ensure that no public school has a worse position and conditions than any private school. Unfortunately, real comparisons have convinced us that this is not the case. The minister would be expected to strengthen the role and importance of public schools with taxpayers' money, instead of witnessing his intense efforts to 100% finance private schools from public funds. In this effort, the legislative proposal removes the protection that private schools do not belong to a budget when admission to a private school threatens the existence of a public school in the same school environment. It should be noted in this respect that there is no clear number of private schools, as this cannot be understood from the financial consequences provided for by the law, so it is not possible to believe in the Minister that there is only a small number of private schools and small resources, as he is seeking to increase the proportion of private education that is expected to reach the European average in the future, but does not state any argument, study or analysis as to why only the European average should be the relationship between private and public education, which will be the most appropriate for the Slovenian situation. Since the proposed amendment primarily allows for better financing of private schools of the largest religious community, this is the Catholic Church, it is not possible to simply accept the argument that changes are introduced due to increased competitiveness, greater dynamics and thus improved quality of education. We're sure there are other reasons. Is it not possible to draw attention to Mr Andre Adam's thinking in recent School Views, which explains the equalisation of public and private education funding as a dissemination of a private initiative into the public sphere? This becomes evident in the case of a Catholic believer who is taught in Catholic private schools. If the subject were taught in a public school, the constitutional divide between the State and the religious communities would violate the Constitution. Therefore, it is logical to ask whether the equalisation of the financing of private and public education does not mean, while retaining the names of the public and private introduction of the veruuch into the sphere of public outside doors? For it is impossible to explain the difference between a religious person as a choice object in public schools and a 100% co-financing of a private school where the subject is a compulsory part of the subject. The unimaginable law was warned by the Minister and the Government and the coalition in the opposition, and civil social initiative also responded. All warnings about the deterioration of the situation of public schools, the unimaginable funding system, the tightening of the public education belt and the generous attitude towards private schools, particularly church schools, have come across deaf ears. There is nothing left of the minister's promises to take small steps and improvements and not to interfere radically with such a sensitive system. We are witnesses to reckless schoolwork that would, on the contrary, require careful and professional improvement. Therefore, in the LDS, we reiterate that this is a matter of radical change in the school sphere. Their negative consequences and their lack of alignment with the professional and interested public, honourable Members and honourable Members, are reiterated by the letter from the 16 civil society organisations and the signatures of more than 71,000 citizens and citizens. The Minister does not respond to such a mass demand for the rejection of the law with arguments, but rather with statements that deceive, which even try to discredit the social partners, but point in particular to the underestimated attitude towards all 71,299 signatories of the call for a quality public school. There are also completely unacceptable words of accusations by some coalition members that the opposition is opening the field of cultural warfare because of the unacceptability of the law. The redirection of the debate away from content is only a confirmation of the poor arguments to justify the proposed legislative changes. However, Members and Members of Parliament can today, by rejecting the law, avoid the harm that can be caused by unimaginable marriage solutions to present and future generations of schooling children. By rejecting the law, we will also avoid the possibility that this will be the first educational law to be able to have its opinion in a referendum. This will prove that we are able to hear warnings from the professional and interested public that the school field should not be allowed to improvise and that changes should be introduced with the broadest possible social consensus. However, if you continue to persist in your arrogance in the ruling coalition and force Slovenian society into over-shared divisions, you will have to take full responsibility for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Ms Marjetka Uhan has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with colleagues, Members and Members, as well as all those who accompany us on the balcony or through the media! Another education law, which is changing, is a novelty of the law on financing education and education. In Novi Slovenija we are very sorry that it has so much politicized itself and brought so much restless spirit to Slovenia among teachers, with the pretense of stopping their jobs so that schools will close down because of these changes. But they don't say that 6 to 7,000 children are fewer every year, and that's the problem. Many beautiful school buildings, public, state buildings that have been built in the past, are alone, stand in half empty space, and the principals are urging children from neighboring areas to sign them into their schools. That's the problem. Let's go back to the novelty of the law. This novelty will, if adopted, finance a state-approved education programme, which is compulsory, at all schools equally. We are eliminating the anomaly that was adopted in 1996, namely those schools which were founded in the early 1990s, with 100% government-funded education programme and only 85% after 1996. It is not about financing schools, private or state, but about contributions to be co-financed by parents. So this is an investment that will be made by the State to the parents, and I believe that all young people accompanying us are also committed not to pay fees to parents or children. In Slovenia we are in favour of diversity, we are against intolerance, which spreads to children and parents of the Walfdor EU School or ultimately the Škofia Gymnasium. This is unfair, impatient, unfair, even because all these schools have justified their existence and helped, I am sure, to raise quality in public schools. We are in New Slovenia for quality school, public and private, and we are also convinced that money invested in the education and education of children, teachers, is the best money invested for the country, family, society. In Novi Slovenija we are against the abolition of any schools, and in particular branch schools in remote areas, in demographically endangered areas. In short, we're against shutting down any school, even if there's not enough kids. And it is in this novel that the state must provide a public school in the school environment, regardless of whether a private school is present there. As we say, we are for a quality school and also allow the development of private schools, we are patient, European and will not give up such a debate as today. But there are other news from the marriage. After this novelty, the State allows free extended stay for children from 1st to 5th grade, also for morning protection, but only for 1st grade. Once again, I must say that we are against the collection of contributions for children who are not provided with State funding under this law. The child must be protected from school and after school until the parents who are employed come for him. Let schools organise themselves and allow them to do so free of charge, in the form of complementary, additional activities or ultimately only in the form of protection. However, as regards the pooling of schools, kindergartens in the area of shared services, management services, the governance envisaged by the novels, this must be made clear that this has already been done successfully and that this is not a novelty. This is only rational behavior, and at the same time we allow the director to have more time for teaching work, for training, but not to deal with ordering food, material, choice of drivers and so on. But if you are not willing, there is no need, and it works well with the Founder, but let it stay the way it is. And it's this article that talks about it that I don't know how many times it says the word "may" and it could be, after all, if there's such resistance in the ballroom. As it is said, it is voluntary, and it is working well for some time, especially in the field of secondary schools, so we do not detect hot water. New centres, or even now some small schools, are easier to operate because they are under the auspices of a large school that provides sufficient technical staff. In Novi Slovenija we will also support the proposed changes because we feel that it is necessary to direct children to their nationality and homeland identity, after all, respect for Slovenian symbols and celebrations are among them. It's too bad we have to write this in this law because of some schools that don't hang themselves at the festivals of the flag. And it is right to say, on this occasion, that in New Slovenia we are happy that it is also written in the law that schools must offer technical support in organising parental worlds as they can be organised at the local and national levels. Perhaps it is time for parents to come to know what kind of education and education they want, which school they will enroll in, what school curriculum will be like, not that the Syndicate will constantly speak for them. Let me finish by saying again: teachers will be teaching where the children will be. For parents, children, the country is particularly important that we have quality schools, accessible to all, free, after all, because this right is given us after the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u68	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister with Fellow Members, Members and Members present at the Gallery! We support the amendment of the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, as it will bring [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u69	I was just about to warn you, please stop the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u70	Whereas it will bring: firstly, an increase in the quality of education through the systematic placement of monitoring and evaluation and the identification and assurance of the quality of education and education, both at national level, which is the competence of public institutions, as well as at the level of schools, so-called self-evaluation, and thus get the directors new responsibility and the school council a new important task. [[...]] Secondly, it brings about a simplification of the financing of private school programmes, which in our view means the equalisation of all children, regardless of where they are going to go to school. Allow me to stress, in this context, the fact that children who attend private schools carrying out public education, including our children, also our citizens, as well as their parents, who also pay taxes and are entitled for their children by the end of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, can choose a completely free, even the most appropriate school for their children. The new law also introduces a gradual introduction of a new method of financing, head funding that will not apply to primary schools, because we are also convinced that this is the case, and we accept the reasoning of the responsible minister, who claims that funding per pupil will not have consequences. Fourth time. The required training for professionals in the field of education and education is also coordinated with the amendments to the Higher Education Act and the Professional and Scientific Titles Act. The organisational possibilities are being complemented by the possibility of merging schools into centres, which would contribute to a more rational business, which we support, and of course this possibility of setting up centres should also be an opportunity to improve the quality of the work of public institutions or schools or kindergartens. The Commission, which has been preparing the amendments, has drawn up expertly-founded proposals for amendments, which are well thought out, which have been prepared systematically, and a number of deliberations and discussions have been carried out. It seems to us that new content is being introduced that will improve quality and general education. It is essential that our education includes national education, the development of awareness of nationality and national identity and behaviour about the history of Slovenia and its culture, as it is unacceptable that our children do not know much about their country and their homeland and that they do not celebrate nationalities and other important holidays at schools, and teach them to respect the symbols of our statehood. We also listened carefully to the opinions in the public presentation of the opinions and examined the comments on both amendments to the law. The most debates are held in public on the financing of private schools, although this is a matter of closing the gap between students, so those in private public schools and those in fact in public schools will be equal. However, we believe that it is also such a relatively small number of these schools that, I would say, all of this controversy that is going on here, I don't think it should have such great media reverberation. In the Slovenian People's Party, we remain firmly convinced that all children must have equal opportunities for education, so we support such an arrangement. After all, such a provision also gives effect to the constitutional right of parents to decide how their children are educated in order to be given a choice, even in addition to public schools. The proposal for amendments to the Education and Education Financing Act was based on analyses of the reforms introduced and the situation in education, prepared by a group of experts, held numerous discussions and hearings, and therefore we believe that the law should be adopted, in particular with a view to improving the quality of education and improving the educational function of our public education. That is why the Members of the SLS will support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dr. Matej Lahovnik, on behalf of the Zares Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members of the Government! Of course, we cannot support this law in the Group of Members. The law has neither been properly prepared nor has all relevant public been involved in the drafting of this law. The preparation of the law was not accompanied by a white book that was expected in the wake of such important systemic changes, although they also offered their cooperation to trade unions dealing with this issue on a daily basis and were willing to co-finance it. The Ministry has not responded to all these initiatives. In recent months, we have been able to monitor a number of warnings from the Association of Directors, Individuals and Professionals, which have warned that they were not only included in the drafting of this law, but also that their comments have not been taken into account in any way. We therefore regret the fact that this law has been drafted and introduced in such a way that the importance of the profession is ignored and that, last but not least, a number of civil initiatives have been launched to prevent the law from being adopted as it is. What needs to be highlighted is that the law introduces a whole range of illogical solutions. Most of them have already been mentioned before me — some forerunners have warned of this. What I would particularly like to point out is the fact that we certainly do not understand, given the fact that the number of children has decreased over the past 20 years, it is regrettable that it has practically halved that the number of public schools has remained practically the same, including teachers in them, that, while public school funding is declining, 100% of private school funding is introduced. It is indeed appropriate for us in the Group of Members to encourage the introduction of private education. Competition is always healthy, it is always welcome, but of course it is not logical that it is to the detriment of the development of public education, which, however, must be and remain important in the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is, the law itself has been written in several places illogical. So you're saying that you eliminate the duality of private school funding, 85%, raise funds to 100%. Of course, this does not apply, for example, to music schools which continue to be co-financed by the old 85% for labour costs and material costs, but this applies to some other private schools. What is certainly most interesting is the 30th article of this law, where the minister says first in the second paragraph, in its entirety, "we do not finance investments in private schools, these investments still provide private capital, we finance only the programme." And so, say, the second paragraph of Article 30. Private schools do not have funds for investment, investment maintenance and equipment. However, it follows that, irrespective of this second paragraph of this Article, private schools may participate in school equipment programmes in accordance with the rules laid down by the Minister. It's just, I'm sorry. It's just a little bit of a ruse. It also states that the fulfilment of the conditions referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article identifies the Ministry responsible for education and, of course, it is quite clear that it is not only not true that discrimination between private schools is being abolished, but that discrimination between private schools is being established in the way it is now established. We are really concerned about the fact that money for public education is getting smaller in the parliamentary group. And we all know that when we have kids in school. Take a look at the equipment of public schools and you will see that there is still a lot of potential for further investment. Both for investment maintenance and investment in equipment. The money is never enough, but it is limited and that public school funds are being reduced, but private school funds are increasing from 85 to 100%, and that seems illogical to us. This seems unacceptable to us, and it is only the logic of private schools that is at odds with us. The name already tells you that private schools are private because they are partly privately financed. But that's the point, or I'm sorry, private schools are actually publicly funded by private schools. Are these even private schools like that? And I'm sorry, on the fact that the money for public education is getting smaller and smaller, on the fact that the share of education and education spending in the budget is falling, for the first time since 2000, from 4.8 to 4.3% of gross domestic product, private school funding is increasing. That's really out of line with every logic. And here's no argument that we could resist the idea that it's a decommissioning of public education, it doesn't hold - they fall nicely. It turns out very quickly and very transparently that much of what is written in marriage or what the minister advocates is, of course, not true. We are, of course, particularly surprised at the fact that, in some way, the Ministry does not respect the ethical code of the Government, which it also undertakes to do so, and the coalition contracts themselves, that in its policy, when proposing such laws, it consults the relevant public to take account of the relevant participants, but that these different groups are easily overrun by the voting machine, it is not good, and it is not in honour of this National Assembly. For all the reasons I have said, in the Group of Members, we really oppose this law and we cannot support it in any way, and we regret that at a time when we all agree that knowledge is a key factor of success, not only on the macro level, that a key competitive factor is both at company level and in society, that we cannot, at that time, adopt such a law with a broad consensus, supported by the profession and other relevant public, but that there will be clearly a vote, to some coalition roller who will once again overtake all other concerns, and this is not good. Of course, we will not support this law in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u73	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u74	Thank you very much again for your word. Also in the context of the presentation of the position of the Law on Financing Education and Education. I will begin where, in fact, one of the fellow Members of Parliament ended up before me, under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in Article 7 clearly and loudly states: "The State and the religious communities are separate." I am not saying this to stress that children from religious families may not have the right, if you want, to attend private school under the inspiration of religious content or under the auspices of one of the religious communities operating in our country. No, no, no. They have the right, and they already have this option under existing legislation. The existing legislation, I stress once again, does not prohibit the establishment of private schools, but imposes on the State, if such an interest is, giving or enabling a private school to be established. And today in our space we have functioning private schools. In the field of primary education, basic education, I would also like to highlight one another fact which follows from Article 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. According to my assessment, this article clearly and loudly indicates that our country must not go into the equation of public and private, especially when we are talking about basic education. And this equation or equation we're going to achieve right with this law over 100% funding. From the state budget, we will finance the private sector 100% after the new budget, and this, respected colleagues and colleagues, is not only contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and experts from a number of other countries, where they know the separation of the State and the religious communities, are finally alerted. Not only is it contrary to the Constitution, that is, I will say, contrary to the sound logic of those who want to build on education, which will be accessible to everyone on a basic level under the same conditions. Why? Because 100% of private sector financing at the expense of the public means degradation of public and quality in private because of the double financier that this law legitimizes. Private schools will have, in addition to private private capital, also income, to the same extent as public schools from public funds from the state budget. This is bad, and this change is incomplete. The analysis has not been carried out and the consequences are unclear today, and I believe that the minister and his team have done the same. Allow me to mention, by the way, those who are more accompanied by education in Europe within the framework of the European Union have seen similar things happen elsewhere. And I'm just going to give Italy as an example. I hope you know what happened in Italy and what the neighbours are pointing out today - to the degradation of the public. In the first part of the presentation of positions under the Basic School Act, I mentioned that this means ghettoisation. Yes, even by experts or those who were supposed to be able to face it directly, "friendly", in narrations, with the system they have in the UK, they point to the ghettoisation that public schools have become accessible or that remain accessible only to those people from the social goods, those who do not have the financial resources to reach some private institutions. This is bad, for this kind of work actually leads to differences or inequalities in the primary education system. That is why I will demente this place to all those who say that this Beast Reform leads to equality, equality. You know, it's not true. And also the autonomy of primary schools, which some so much like to stress, leads to inequality. The inequality of that school from Murska Sobota with school in Ljubljana or in Koper, because the standards will no longer be the same. And that, in my opinion, is a bad thing to share at the primary level of education. That we do not continue to fly the testimonies by the coalition, that we are speaking to the opposition Members, that we do not have any arguments. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I said that some of the ruling parties are very good at manipulating information or saying whatever you want. A concrete argument, according to my opinion, is a very good indicator of public degradation, is the financial picture, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and the financial resources earmarked in the past for the field of education and the envisaged financial resources to be allocated for the future. Despite the fact that we will now draw more money from the same box, it is said, in public and in private, from the same box, we will draw for both public and private, and this box is emptied or allocated less financial resources. Allow me specific information so you won't tell me I'm speaking. For example, in 2004, 4.71% of GDP was allocated to this box, in 2008 4.37%, if we go to 2009, the draft education budget was only 4.2%. This is, dear colleagues and colleagues, the reality, this is the concrete data on which I want to build my presentation of views on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group. If I move forward, I have heard quite a few comments from empty words, empty words from many Members, I think there were 14 of them, at the time when the opposition announced obstruction, only 14, and we know what the majority of the coalition has in this House. 14 present, or more or less spitting through the previous system, after communism, after some serious ideology that is still to be introduced into our educational system today. I have even heard that some Slovenian Members, within the framework of European institutions or connections, are supposed to explain abroad that we have ideological totalitarianism in primary school. I ask you kindly, my fellow Members and colleagues, but we are writing in 2007 as far as I understand. And that someone in this way represents or spits on Slovenia abroad, shame on that Member and the government that sends such people abroad. Our children must be raised in patriotism, knowing who the real national heroes are. "Wow." Hard words fell from the side, I don't know, of the 14 people who stayed in Parliament when the opposition was obstructed. And I will say, it is good that I have announced the obstruction of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group because if I were to be present, it would be a shame to be a member of the same Parliament or to sit in trouble with the same people who are able to think this way. In the opposition or if I focus only on the Slovenian National Party's Group, we have never avoided the debate, never, never avoided the arguments. Even more, during the first debate, the second debate on the working body, including for the national assembly, we have worked with concrete proposals, with concrete amendments. We have even proposed that the proposals of both laws should be withdrawn from that meeting of the Government, where the matter was confirmed in such unacceptable form. We have proposed, we have asked for further coordination, for additional arrangements, also for discussions with trade unions, including the rest of the professional public. Then who's avoiding it? Who lacks concrete arguments, respected colleagues and colleagues? If you want a concrete argument or specific information, I'll let you know. When Mrs Švercheva, State Secretary, spoke in the first part about the achievement of this reform, an important achievement, a basic school curriculum. To tell you how very incomplete this step is in the framework of school legislation, I can show you what a victory is in the framework of the educational plan envisaged by the law. Such a victory, which has, in principle or in the main objective, a discipline. In 2007, by disciplining children in primary schools, we will disguise them, dress them funny, put them in a corner so that everyone can make fun of an individual. This is one of the consequences of incomplete school legislation changes. Another perhaps more sophisticated and I believe that, even with a very clear purpose, is the amendment signed specifically by Minister Beast: the School Regulations in High Schools. This is also one of the forms of discipline [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u75	Mrs. Žgajner Tavš, allow me to interrupt you and ask you for the following. You can be pathetic in your speech, it doesn't hurt anything, it's all acceptable, just please two things: that you're not offensive and that you stick to the darkness, and that's the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me if pathetic is the law on funding for education and education prepared by Minister Beast, but I can't improve matters. And if pathetic is the educational plan dictated by law, it's a simple fact. I can improve my words with some demagogism, but it would not be fair, for in this House I am sitting in the role of the opposition MP, whose task is to warn of irregularities, of the weakness of government action. Allow me, but I will only take you into account because I have only six minutes and because I believe my fellow Members have something else to say, I will interrupt at this moment. However, I say that in the Slovenian National Party, we do this, ugly, pathetic government work, but we will not nod.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor to present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u78	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Minister. The fact is that we can no longer question privacy because private schools are already established and functioning and are thus satisfied with the requirements of international documents which require us to provide, in addition to public education, private educational institutions and thus to enrich the offer of an educational system. It should also be confirmed that the duality of the current financing of private education resulting from the time difference in the establishment of individual private schools in the light of the applicable diversity of rules justifies the proposed unification of the level of funding because the different treatment is controversial in terms of ensuring equal treatment. Prejudice on privacy in the educational system is linked to the establishment and its ideological and confessional membership. However, these and any other prejudices fall away if we take into account other relevant sources which take account of fundamental constitutional and legal rights and duties. The relationship between public and private education must be seen in the light of primary education obligations, which must therefore remain or become free of charge, the rights and duties of parents to maintain, educate and educate children in accordance with their belief, whatever it is, and the State has a duty to ensure this to everyone and under the same conditions. Of course, it must also be recognised that public education cannot be competitive, competitive in terms of delivering results in the quality of the knowledge acquired, if it does not have a competitor. Furthermore, fears that an increase in the number of private institutions would endanger the existence of a public network are not yet expected in the fact that the state does not finance the establishment of private schools, but only their educational and educational programmes, which in any case must be in line with recognised public authorities, are neither acceptable nor existing, but even less possible future rationalisation of public education, as parents are burdened financially and thus the State is literally in the process of creating an opinion that public education is falling apart. It might be reasonable to doubt that the proposed establishment of centres could contribute to a more rational business, but given that the proposal of the law is based on a voluntary decision of the founder, which, of course, will be able to decide on it, it is likely, given the usefulness of setting up common services in terms of local characteristics, capabilities and needs; the solution is acceptable to us, and in particular is acceptable because it is expected to relieve the director of all those matters which do not have educational content. We are also convinced that to ensure the quality of the mission of educational institutions, a second level of education under the Bologna programmes is necessary and appropriate. In our DeSUS Group, in the context of amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, we discussed most about the privacy of the school system and its financing. Opinions are shared, which is why we will vote on our conscience this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u79	Thank you. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say my best to all of you. I must say, this was the moment I was looking forward to. I usually have to say it's not exactly like that with things, but the story we're witnessing today is something special. Because so many non-truths have been said in connection with school legislation, and so unilaterally in some media, it has been reported that the constitutional right which is the foundation of every democracy has already been gravely violated - that is the right to know. One of the rare moments when we can put things in the right place is the direct transfer. I hope that everyone who is here today, and who is watching us in any way, either by sounding or by television, will be happy to listen. For every claim I'm about to make, I also have all the relevant papers here. Those who claimed otherwise do not have them. So, if necessary, I'd be happy to document it. However, this violation of the right to know, as fundamental democratic rights in a given case, can be all the more fatal because it threatens to referenda. The referendum, of course, means direct decision-making of the people, which can in fact decide only if all relevant data are provided to it. Everybody! This is particularly true, because in the past period of some simple, one key to yesterday, you could not meet in public discourse. The new school legislation, if I summarize briefly, which is an essential part of the ZOFVI, the Law on Financing Education and Education brings three important innovations. This is the first time: the abolition of all schools in the school system of the Republic of Slovenia significantly enhances the role of parents in education, both in the education and education process, and also in the design of certain basic decisions, and for the first time in particular enables parents to effectively choose that education and school for their child, which they firmly believe is in line with their values and that knowledge will be gained for the best benefit of the child there. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is their constitutional right. Article 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, when it comes to these rights, is also very important, which states that it is not permissible to restrict this right with anything, nor with the excuse that this Constitution does not permit it to a greater extent. This is very important because of the points we will talk about later. All changes in both school laws are therefore of great benefit to parents and children. Parents will be able to design themselves, develop a curriculum, participate in it, and form their representative associations. For parents, as I have already pointed out, it is certainly the most important abolition of all tuitions, which in practice means that not only do we not increase social differences, as some have publicly stated in the selection of signatures, but also in the past months, because you could also see this in the means of public information. On the contrary, when we abolish all tuition fees in the school system of the Republic of Slovenia, we also eliminate the social inequalities that have emerged from the previously inadequate, apparently inadequate legislation adopted by Minister Gabra over a decade ago. It is the fact that we abolish all fees, and in practice it also means that parents can actually choose their own education unimpeded and school for their children. Now for what I made the first introduction. The most secret and the most secret to the public all the time, with all those who have been making public statements at this time, is the following. Both the largest private schools with the background of the Slovenian Catholic Church were in fact given 100% funding for their programmes at the time of the past governments. Legally before a good decade ago, during the LDS and SD governments, before that, they had this right granted by a special concession. The law, which then specifically stipulated that there were two categories, one which already had a concession and which involved 100% financing of the private education programme, and those who still came, which would have 85% funding, was adopted at the beginning of 1996. The article on which it refers, however, states that those who already have a concession to finance themselves in accordance with the provisions of the concession contract. This leads to 100% funding. And what is crucial here is that both Catholics go along, if you like, churchgoers, as some people call them popular, and in fact private schools, which have a valuable background for the Slovenian Catholic Church, including the largest, Štučki. And now look, for a moment I'm going to turn the rhetoric that our esteemed colleagues in the opposition are using, and I'm going to define myself in their words. I don't appreciate it. I'll just use their words. When the referendum was announced, as the most controversial point was made, Mr Potrč was specifically at a press conference, 100% financing of church schools. The questionable separation of the church from the state was particularly exposed. Since, as we have already seen, this is not a matter of new legislation, but this has been adopted decades ago, I am now asking Mr Ptræ how questionable the separation of the Church from the state was 10 years ago, as his voters will certainly ask him the same question. For the SD gentlemen also voted in favour of this law, say Dr Dušan Bavdek, Janez Kocijancič, Dr Mateja Kožuh Novak, Mrs Jadranka Šturm Kocjan, Dr Ciril Ribič. And if anyone doesn't believe, this today is an official vote paper on the adoption of the Education and Education Financing Act at the beginning of 1996. If anyone wants to do a referendum, please do it against the SD gentlemen who have passed it. And we have inherited this situation from them. Of course, there were also many others who are now in opposition, clearly all LDS, from Anderlič to Školč. I can also share this with you. I will ask the president to provide you with this copy, so that you can all make sure of it. I think that one of the SNS Members voted in favour, so that he would not wrong anyone. So if this is the basis for a referendum, as we say, colleagues, you will first have to explain to your electorate how you acted at that time from the point of view of the separation of the Church from the State. And then it's an even more fun thing. To your constituents, if you go to the referendum, you will also have to explain the next story that will happen. Even if they were to follow you, I don't think they're enough sheep to understand that you dragged them by the nose and you were only pre-electionally smoking passion, which is, by the way, unconstitutional under the Slovenian Constitution. But that, I think, doesn't bother you. And you're just gonna have to explain how it's gonna happen. If your voters in the referendum you are threatening and with which you have painted this debate and is a key part of this debate, ladies and gentlemen who are protesting now, then you will have to explain to them how it is possible to propose a referendum on 100% financing of private schools with a church background, if you have legalized it yourself - I can read your names and surnames again - and especially if you would follow and even reject new school legislation, how then these largest church schools will still be financed 100% from public funds for the programme because you have enacted it. You must understand that you will be very, very difficult to explain to them. But I think the public will also understand what this story is really about. Of course, it's a fight against culture, and it's using an enemy rumor, because if you don't even respect your own constituents, which I just proved to you, that means disrespect for your interlocutor, which is one part of the key element of the hate speech. The second, of course, is the netting of a negative charge, negative passions, which you have done in a given case against those who believe. What you failed to abuse in school legislation, but through the Vice-President of the SD, you sent your students as a "primary" to control the institutions of civil society, which you could never have subordinated in the past. Why, in fact, is the public so gravely deceived, why was it manipulated so cruelly? That answer, I don't think it's entirely uniform. First of all, it's probably some old ideological fear of privacy. This is, of course, non-European work, because this is essential for understanding this law. To give greater emphasis to private education and thus to try to get additional investors into the school system, if we look at it as a whole, which would make the school system rich - this is not our idea, this was the proposal of the European institutions, which we have repeatedly, not just once, proposed that we use this option because there is still the largest unused reserve, which shows that the private part of the school is practically irrelevant to us. In the financing that some of you have stumbled on, there is 99.2 and a few percent for public education and 0.8% for private education only. By the way, as an interesting thing, you kept saying what would happen if a new school was set up. Here again it is necessary to separate the existing legislation that you have adopted, and what new legislation would bring, because we are talking now only about the one that brings the new legislation, but for understanding we both need to be enlightened. That is to say, if, in fact, I think this number is excessive, it has cost the establishment of a new private school a million euros, then it has to be said that it goes to your account 850,000 euros, because 85% of the funding has already been fixed in the law by you. And that, even if it were a referendum, is not the subject of a referendum decision at all. And all that's left is the rest that could possibly be decided at the referendum. However, what a perversion this is, says the data that only the costs of net voting in the referendum would be sufficient for those poor 3 remaining private schools, which are in fact 85% funded at this time, for their 12-year funding. Only the costs of one vote. Even if the number of these new schools doubled, which some of you fear, I personally think that if they were a normal society, they would be happy to do so, but if it did happen again, as you say, it goes to 85% of your bill. This cannot be the subject of this debate at all, nor would it in any case be the subject of a referendum decision. But only 15%. Which means that this number would actually double, which means that it would be sufficient for a half-short period. It would still, if the number of private schools doubled, but not in terms of, at least as far as it is known not to this extent, it would still continue to be only the costs of the referendum with which you are printing, sufficient for 6 years of funding in the part that this new legislation actually provides. And I think it's embarrassing that, in a non-European way, in this way, we would be spending money on something that could otherwise enrich our school system. And now I'm going back to what it does as an effect. What was our purpose, in fact? Now that we have once clearly defined that a hundred percent of the financing of private schools with church background has been legalized by you decades ago, and of course there was no debate at that time that this is anything wrong with the question of the separation of the church from the state, because you even voted for it, and of course not all the other things you have spoken publicly about these days and deceived your own voters who have believed you blindly. Well, now that we've defined this, let's see what the effect would really be for those three schools that are actually still private and that were set up later and are 85% funded by what this system actually means. I submit that the apparent anti-constitutional inequality before the law against those of which we have previously spoken and for which you have enacted these better standards yourself. That is to say, I am surprised to tell you frankly that I am very surprised that none of the parents have yet thought in these schools to go before the Constitutional Court to challenge this provision and demand 100% funding for themselves. And I find it hard to imagine that the Constitutional Court would find anything other than that there is actually an obvious inequality here and that this needs to be settled. And that's really what we wanted to do with this legislation. To remedy this obvious constitutional inequality, for the parents of the three schools, and two of these certainly have nothing to do with any church community or with what, at least two, are in an unequal position against others. These children who go there are actually discriminated against in this way and are discriminated against by their parents. But that's obviously not what our opposition is interested in. As far as we have heard about social inequality, the social significance of the last days on the one hand and on the other. But when we offer a law that eliminates social inequality, it attacks him with lies. Yes, of course, because we should have said that exactly 10 years ago, by their vote, they caused this social inequality. And you know they'd rather throw money through the window, 3 million euros for a referendum than say it in public. But we will tell me and believe that we will find a way to get this news, what you did and how you make a fool of your own constituents, into every Slovenian house. That's how much we can print a flyer and send it somewhere. By the way, you'll be in trouble twice. For the first time, because you have to explain to your constituents, and for the second time because the elections are coming up, think carefully about what you are doing. What's all this about, anyway? I've already said one reason. It's this ideological fear of privacy, probably. I just can't read people's minds. But I'm sure, and I'm sure that I've already mentioned this as an option, and I've also seen what the reaction was, there's another reason why there's such an indescribable circus going on, when it comes to a law whose content is nothing more than giving parents a greater role, allowing them to fully exercise their constitutional right to choose and which abolishes all tuition. Then why is there such opposition? Yes, you know, it's probably the greatest nightmare of today's opposition to have a generation of children who would know in detail what was happening during Slovenian independence and would say that they could properly answer the question of who is the person who was, was a very high official who, just a few months before Slovenia's independence, roared that some truly dream of some independent Slovenia, but we will never allow them to do so, because our only homeland is Yugoslavia. Because, as far as I can tell, they teach a person’s value in school much differently than they do if they knew that information. And of course here is one particular knowledge, for some additional knowledge, for some different, if you want, even the values of the star angle. All of these are advantages, complemented by a very private education. At the same time, another interesting, most vocal opponent of private education, by the way, lives with the daughter of the author of this statement, has trained his family in private schools. Isn't that interesting? Now that everyone has the opportunity to put their children in a private or public school, which they consider to be a better, free choice, without any obstacles, without tuition, when this particular knowledge they have apparently acquired is accessible to all, but it is against. Yeah, I'm asking you nicely, well, that's really the highlight of it all! And now it is. As it is said, with the help of an enemy rumor, negative passions and prejudices are net here, and I simply cannot understand this in the context of current political developments. And perhaps now that the second round of voting in the presidential elections, however, will prevail over the human attitude towards these children who are your victims, decades ago with double criteria, legislation will be adopted to allow them to go to school under the same conditions as those of both of the largest church schools that you have set up for them 100% funding their programmes and passed it in 1996. I can read your names and surnames again if anyone's forgotten them. And in this context, I also understand the statement made by the new leader on the transition left, who spoke in his speech on the full mobilisation and establishment of clear command chains, very militant, I must say, a vocabulary that I would not expect from the President of the SD, but if someone had forgotten about it, I also have a magnetogram here. So there's no problem, and that's why I'm not surprised that he's supposed to support that too.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u81	Mr Grimes, please, you too are considered to be holding [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u82	I'm talking about the fate of the law being predicted here. It's all under the impression of the referendum announcement today. But I also need to love to tell you what the actual content is, what the actual circumstances are, and what we would decide in such a case. In such a case, when it comes to a clear vote for power at all costs, I believe that for the interests of children and their parents, the abolition of tuition and the consistent exercise of constitutional rights, such as the constitutional right to raise their child in accordance with their values, there is no room. From this point of view, your word on the referendum forecast is logical, but so much more non-European, and if I tell you directly, a far more shameful move. I hope you will reconsider this decision. Thank you and good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u83	Thank you. Some hands have gone up. Do you have a procedural proposal? Mrs. Potrata, you have a procedural proposal. [[...]] Here you go. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u84	Ambassador Potrat, I'm sorry to be in front of you before you present your position. What the National Assembly is doing or what we are doing today, the past days, is simply not right. We don't listen in here, everybody says what they want to say in here, but they're not ready to listen. In this House we have come to that moment and the events of the past months indicate that far from anyone among us would follow what we have to listen to to connect and reduce the abyss, we are only deliberately connecting it. I must also say, in the context of the procedural proposal, that we also assess that the selective conduct of the meetings of the National Assembly, which we have just witnessed in colleagues Grimes' statements, does not go in the direction of integration. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that at this point of school law, we are trying to create, in our firm belief, injustices against a large class of people or injustices against the public. And despite the fact that you know that if you succeed in this way through a procedural or parliamentary procedure to enforce this law, here is the State Council and there is a referendum. And we know we're not gonna take this step forward. My friend Grimes is even right about one thing when he says yes, the referendum will cost something. But on the other hand, this referendum follows much more. And that is why from this title, before I announce obstruction, because we do not want to participate in such a debate, because we are not pursuing what we are all chosen to do together, but we, too, are only insulting you, you and us. And since you do not wish to join at least some kind of dialogue, Mr Minister, you should achieve this, because you should not be proud that through the National Assembly a law will go into the obstruction of some parties, with strict opposition to that law when you know that you will meet the referendum in two months. You must be so wise that it is in your interest to make the National Assembly a law that will not be an embarrassment but a pride of the state. But not in the way you're trying to enforce it. And some time ago, in the National Assembly, public debates under Comrade Grims were catastrophic! From this town, because we don't want to participate in this debate, I'm predicting the obstruction of the National Party, but I'm sorry that you're causing it. However, we are pursuing other objectives, especially all future speakers who will talk about it. From this place, Mr President, I ask that, under the second paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you consider my words to be a statement of obstruction in the vote on the said legal motherhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u85	Mr Pece, I'm in a somewhat awkward situation because you are not the leader of the Group of Members. By the rules of procedure, you know, but I think that we can view this as the opinion of the entire parliamentary group, and I take it that the whole parliamentary group will obstruct this point. [[...]] Okay. The following about debates and perceptions. Let me re-emphasize two things. First of all, debates can be lively, controversial, pathetic, anything. Again and again, you're that, you're that, you're that, you're that, you're that, you're that, you caused that, and it's acceptable. However, insults are not acceptable. And I think that if there were obvious insults to Mr Grimes, I would warn him in that sense. I only warned him to stick to the agenda. So, Mr. Pache, we accept your position to obstruct this agenda. We are still in the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, i.e., the word is mag. Majda Potrat, who will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u86	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Mr. Secretary! I said hello to everyone else at the first show. Let me express my disappointment when I have to represent the position of the Social Democrats' Group after Mr Branko Grims' kind, personal confessional and truthful performance. But in the meantime, I set out to introduce my presentation to paraphrasing a famous saying: It is a time to talk and it is a time to listen. When I was still teaching, we knew that two other activities were essential for teaching: reading and writing, but I stopped at first only when I was speaking and listening. When we talk about the two laws that have been the focus of many in this country in recent months, talking and listening are essential. If we do not carry out these two activities with sufficient commitment, there may be noise. And I have the feeling that this communication or communication noise has arisen and has become so hot that we are now in a state or situation where, before the third examination of the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, the opposition has virtually no longer been able to influence the final form of the laws, because only two articles are open, the opposition supplements are usually not confirmed and adopted, and the law on which the talk is based could no longer be affected. Public research has shown great confidence in the Slovenian school, which has gradually grown since the early 1990s and has now declined slightly. Since everyone also has their own experience with education, which has a decisive bearing on the relationship to knowledge and the education system, it is the policy to keep the public in line when introducing changes. Due to the importance of knowledge for each individual and for the development of society, changes in education should go beyond a party's, ideological and any prestigious measurement of power. Knowledge must not lose its status as a public good. Accessibility based on equality should be at the heart of our present and future. Together, we should find an answer to the question of what kind of school we want and need for society to meet the challenges of time and achieve the high targets. We should reach a social consensus on this. The current coalition has set itself, in a coalition contract, goals that are easily achieved by the majority of the National Assembly. And although the Minister of Education and Sport announced at the election that the school system would upgrade and correct the school system where necessary, and in general to take into account the opinion of the professional and interested public, this cannot be confirmed by this Government in the third year of its mandate. When we learned that everything we are witnessing is not just change and upgrading, but that it is reform, we were deemed to be afraid and that we are defending the situation as it is, and the school system is something moving, acceptable and must therefore change. And when we answered that we do not oppose change, but that change is even necessary, only the appropriate professional basis for it must be, there must be simulations of effects, we need to know the analysis and experts who have prepared these bases, but we have heard, of course, that this is essentially a reform. We have dealt with 20 school laws in the National Assembly so far, and the Government has been a proponent 15, and 5 others have been prepared by opposition Members and Members, or by a civil initiative. That this quarter of the laws were flatly rejected is a known fact. Similarly, proposals for additions, which have been most frequently stopped by the Committee on Education and Sport, have been faced with similar fate. The fact that the coalition did not most often deal with the argument of its views, which is why the opposition did so much more intensely, is also a well-known fact. There's no way to say it's unexpected. So I wonder why the coalition suddenly bothers if the opposition has decided to step out of this communication noise. Participation in the drafting of legislation is therefore an essential component of democratic procedures. Social Democrats are advocates of social dialogue. And since changes in school legislation, in particular the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, concern employees in this activity, we expected that what the social partners have to say in this regard would come across a greater understanding. As the stories unfolded, it's a well-known fact. But it is so much more embarrassing if you have to listen to the evidence that those who work in education cannot explain the changes can not get people for their suggestions. And those of us who have ever worked in school know that the answers are always the result of questions. What a question, that is the answer. And because there were quite a few speculations that I didn't say manipulation by how some people were getting information about what the signatories knew and what they didn't know about what those who were collecting signatures knew to explain, and what they didn't, then let them attribute the answers they got to their questions. The credibility of some over 70,000 signatures collected does not diminish this fact. For Social Democrats, access to services and education is a fundamental value and the accessibility of education is referred to as an international convention. That is why we will always be committed to maintaining a network of public schools. What this will be like after the changes to the law, what is going to happen to the network of public schools, in spite of the Ministry's insistence on this requirement. It is a well-known fact that we are talking about the establishment of new schools, and on the other hand it is known that schools are closing down in some environments. They say the population is in possession. How to understand, then, what a huge savings it will be to set up private schools for public funds when, in view of the population movement, it is difficult to think that the premises are an essential element at this point. It is likely that more resources should be channelled towards quality, quality at all levels, both the equipment of existing schools and the financing of those activities that parents should normally pay for free schools. Another thing to add is that young generations are better prepared for the challenges of the future. However, we listen to the stories of the abolition of tuitions as if in general in primary and secondary education they were introduced as a generally valid fact. There's a lot of deceiving. If this is the only achievement of this law, then let me point out another illogicality in the legislation we are adopting. When a correction of the Income Act was submitted to the National Assembly, in which funds could also be donated to public institutions, the coalition did not support this. Where was the sense of justice back then?Oh, my God! It is no coincidence that most of the comments we follow judge around the relationship are private:public. There are also some clever manipulations as part of the explanations of this relationship, but let me stress once again: the establishment of private schools is possible under existing legislation. With 1996 funding was set at the border with which most agreed at the time, that is 85%. Before 1996, three private schools were established, which are funded 100% from public funds for the public programme. Why the difference? You refer to comparability with the European space, but you never say that the European Court of Human Rights has said that it is the duty of the State to provide opportunities for the establishment of private schools, it is said, to provide a legal basis for the establishment of private schools and nothing requires it to finance private schools. And there are very different patterns of private school funding in the European area, and there are also different percentages of funding within one country, so talking about discriminating is a little risky business, especially if we connect it with tuition, because even those schools that are 100% funded from public funds are collecting from their students contributions that we can call tuition. There's just gonna have to be a little more sense of reality here. I pointed out that the question I was just talking about is the most common question when people in the public decide whether this novel would be accepted in the form it was presented and nothing shows that it would not be accepted - they object. They argue precisely because they stress there is no problem in the existence of private schools, the problem is financing! Finally, give it to the proponents to see! It is true that, in the case of a private relationship, many other issues were raised publicly in the proposed law. I would point only to one other which has also received a number of concerns, namely the organisation of individual legal entities in larger organisational units, which is at the school centre. The law states that in such organised centres individual units lose their legal personality. It is important that those who take such an organisational form lose legal personality. On the other hand, what agreement or willingness to join the centres will be met by individual legal entities in the field of education and education in their environment. And if we follow the spirit of time, which says that the school field should also be regulated in accordance with the entrepreneurial principles, where rationality is the most important - I think about this fact with the funds invested to generate as much profits - then it is quite clear which direction the individual environment will look to - whether in the direction of those interpretations that see the performance and quality of the operation of schools in smaller schools, there between 300 and 500 students, depending on how big and which level of education they are going, whether they prefer to look in the direction of saving financial resources and controlling school management with the director, and perhaps to exclude the providers of educational activities from the possibility of co-management of the school field. When we refer to the influence or increased influence of parents in school activities, we should say that the increased influence of parents has already been effected by some of the previous changes in school legislation. And it seems right for the Social Democrats that parents have an important impact on the development of education and education. Only this should not be charged with the quality of the educational work. In our view, however, everything that is promised by this amendment of the law goes towards the poverty of the public school system and the conscious creation of an elite private school field, for which individuals are probably very, very interested, but it is not in the spirit of equality, accessibility and such principles as we attribute to them in social democracy. Unfortunately, these months, with regard to school legislation, the Social Democrats have spoken a lot about how much they have listened to us, but there is another issue. Today, it shows that there is no point in talking anymore because some people do not know and do not want to listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u87	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A full discussion is under way on the proposal for a law. Mrs. Jeraj has the floor. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We always pay special attention to the LDS field in the field of education. And we are convinced that for such an important area, certain analyses, studies that realistically assess the existing situation, are necessary before making certain changes. On the basis of this assessment, it is necessary to set clear objectives in which changes should also be made. We believe that this marriage novel has not been done. All the warnings we gave as the opposition, all the warnings against the proposer about the ruling coalition, which were mediated by the positions of interest and the professional public, have been heard. Today we are in the third reading and third reading of this law. We have heard that a principle should be respected: the right to know. I'm asking this coalition, this government, whether we haven't made it clear through the process of dealing with this law that it's not for us! How else can we understand the coalition that it does not allow itself to respect this principle and that a public presentation of opinions has allowed the public concerned only after a second reading? Since we have enough of this duality, sufficient denial without arguments, reasoned comments, of course we do not want to take responsibility for the adoption of such laws. Therefore, Mr President, allow me, on behalf of the LDS Club, to indicate the absence of all members of the LDS Club, when discussing the 26th item of the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I would also like to give you this in writing, given that only a leader or a deputy on the Club of Ambassadors can propose it. I have here a written announcement signed by Mr Jožef Školč, head of the LDS Club of the Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u89	Thank you. And I'm asking you to give it in writing. The next one has the floor, Mr Lakhovnik's procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure, I announce the obstruction of the Zares Group. The reasons are that such an important law did not take the professional public into account, did not take into account the section's comments, nor was the White Paper prepared on such a significant legislative amendment. Given that there has been a systematic disregard for all comments over the last few months and that, apparently, the comments and additions of the opposition have not been delayed and have been taken into account, we are indeed assessing in the Group that we can no longer participate in the consideration of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u92	Thank you very much. That there will be no procedural problems, Mr President, as the leader of the Group of Members, I would like to say that the Group of Social Democrats will not participate in further consideration and decision on the Law on Financing Education and Education. With this decision, we would like to announce that our disagreement with the procedure and content - the content is certainly even more important than the procedure - of the prepared law so much so that we do not want to take responsibility with our cooperation if the majority nevertheless decides to accept it. Secondly, we would like to inform you that we have a serious intention to alert the Minister responsible for education and the majority in the National Assembly to reconsider whether such content of the law, which is not agreed upon by half or almost half of the National Assembly and an important part of the professional and political public, is adopted and thus encourages the need that we have already indicated that the consequences of the adopted law are also decided by the referendum. We do not hide these intentions, of course, which is not yet a decision, and we would also like to inform them in this way that there will be no wonder what happened after the possible decision in the National Assembly. We know that Mr Minister and the coalition are aware of this, we know that, for this reason, to be able to estimate the costs of carrying out the referendum, you have also not decided that the third consideration of the law would have been carried out at the previous meeting, which is customary and has also been done many times so far by your ministry, but it is not necessary to do so, but this cannot be an excuse for not being able to decide. As for the content of our views and our explanations, if your ignorance continues to require us to talk to the public about this, of course we will gladly do so. The content and consequences are such that we firmly believe that such a law cannot be decided by only a small coalition majority of its political interests. We're leaving the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me to explain on my own behalf why I feel that I can no longer participate in this meeting of the National Assembly at this point. I am convinced that the time we are living is the time that should be devoted to a thorough consideration of how to increase the quality of public education in this country; how to form a network of schools with a smaller population; how the share of the resources allocated by the State should be maintained; and how to turn it into a quality of public schools, in particular. We should ask ourselves how to achieve a reduction in the number of key subjects in order to achieve more. We should ask ourselves how we could achieve the introduction of a warm meal in school, how to take care of individual treatment of children who are otherwise problematic and who are making problems to classes as a whole. We should ask ourselves how to deregulation the system and how to channel resources into the successes of the weak and also the most powerful. Instead, when we introduce the centres from kindergarten to higher school, when we introduce the funding after the student and when we focus our attention on 100% private school funding, we do the opposite. These measures are questionable to the vast majority of the professional public. Teacherhood in schools throughout Slovenia doubts these measures. 71,000 signatures remind us not to do that. I would like the Government to consider whether this is what it really wants before the National Assembly launches citizens and citizens to the referendum, especially the minister. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Let me just say that I understand that these decisions are difficult. [[...]] I myself was my own time before deciding when it was necessary to go to parliament to fix the law so that something similar would not happen. The then government decided to come to Parliament and propose a one-year decision and reflection. I strongly recommend this kind of thinking, I believe that without the opposition you will be able to do it more easily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u95	Thank you. A full discussion is under way on the proposal for a law. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. A respected minister with co-workers! Dear fellow Members and Members! I could start with that and say that this orchestral, ideological performance and now, in some way, the ritual departure of the opposition from this Chamber has only one goal: to politicise these changes proposed in the field of education. We have now heard of yet another objective, namely, intimidation already in advance with some referendum on some changes that are, of course, far from requiring obstruction of the opposition, only to force citizens and citizens to discuss and decide on this at the referendum. These changes are so small that, in my opinion, they do not bring much into the field of Slovenian education. But we have to write some things down, this first amendment, which was tabled at Article 1 by the LDS, clearly shows what is really going on here in general, that we have to write down that there is a greater emphasis on domestic education - because it is, in fact, really scandalous. I recall in 2000 when, during the time of the Bajuk government, the then school minister Sturm with a decree or regulation, I do not know what the act itself was called, instructed schools to do the same at the end of the year or at the beginning of the year - what a revolt was then triggered by some schoolmasters, schoolchildren and so on. If I touch another area that has been exposed many times today, this is the signature of the petition and the mentioning of these 71,000 signatures. I went to see these signatories, and I realized that there were a huge number of students among those signatories to the petition. And I really wonder whether this is the case, as is the case today - I think Mr Petan - has been discussing the abuse in this area. Not only for politicization, but for the purpose of child abuse to achieve some effect. When I wrote these petition letters, I found an inside message, Sir Struckle, we couldn't, because you gave us too little time, we couldn't get more signatures, otherwise we could have collected more. This was collected by these union members and the signatories are, say, kindergartens, a whole bunch of kindergartens. We know he's mostly afraid that he'll be less money for primary school. What do kindergarteners have to do with it if they are paid by the congregations? Nothing. The state does not finance kindergartens, but inside is signed by all educators and educators. I don't know about all kindergartens, but huge. Then there are teachers of music schools, although in this area there is a great change in the direction of positive changes in the choice of subjects for the visa of music instruction. So we could look forward to these changes, not that the signatories are against them. Then there are those who are in different institutions, then even the pensioners' societies are signatories. Not to mention all the elementary schools, I watched a little for ours, including those janitors, and those paid by the congregation signed. So this is really one big political deception, I don't know what they've been told, why they should sign it, but now it's possible to talk about these 71,000 signatures. Okay, if they go to the referendum, they're going to have to collect 40,000 signatures, and that's something else that people have to go to the administrative unit to sign, and they're going to be familiar with it, and you're going to give someone a piece of paper and you're going to tell them to sign here, but if you don't, there's going to be a threat. The principals signed - I don't know, are the directors members of the union? If he collected the union. Apparently, it's some kind of orextral act of opposition, some ideological pursuit, just like we witnessed to her yesterday when we discussed how to end a denationalisation process that has lasted for more than a decade. The exact same story is repeated, the same story with obstruction in the provinces - and I conclude with it - obstruction is a difficult element which the opposition can use in the work of a parliamentary democracy. But if it is used as often as our opposition does, then citizens and citizens must ask themselves if there is something wrong with them. I myself have been in the opposition for four years, and in the few opposition, not for one third of us have been in the opposition, but we have very rarely decided to use the instrument of obstruction. Very rarely, because we felt that our work in Parliament was determined by the electorate and the electorate, and that we must insist there, even if we cannot always succeed 100% with our arguments. Here, however, this instrument of obstruction, despite the fact that our colleagues are paid as we are by taxpayers, is used on every occasion and every occasion. I think that this is not good and does not lead to some good solutions, and I regret that our opposition, which is quite strong, sometimes helps another part of the government coalition to use it in some way and too often. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u98	Say good-bye again! The law that we are considering brings a number of very good positive features: from free textbooks, to free preschool protection, to the possibility of establishing school centres and so on. In my debate, I would like to stress only one thing. Dear colleagues and colleagues in the opposition, do not be afraid of private education. Private schools are very good, in private schools students are exposed to good conditions, they are not harmed there, private schools do not endanger public education, as you say. From my experience, from the experience of my children in private schools, I can say that these schools are really very high quality, that besides knowledge they bring up a lot of this other important element, namely education, education for civil values, human values, education, which is so important for the creation of young people in adults. Slovenians and Slovenes, we should only be happy if there are as many good schools in Slovenia as we currently have in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! On the part of the opposition, we were able to hear some criticisms flying to the system, to the walls, to the negotiation - about everything else, just not what is the most important system or the most important element in education, which are students. None of the opposition spoke of the students. The students will have the most in this system or they will be able to gain the most - no one mentioned this about everything else you were talking about, you obviously forgot about the students, because you obviously don't care about that in the opposition. We could also hear the criticism that some people don't want to or don't want to, you don't want to listen. Respected by the opposition - who doesn't want to listen, who's not here, who's out of this room, who doesn't want to hear arguments, who doesn't want to hear the other side, who's not capable of facing a different opinion? But that means you're doing one, and you're saying the other. That's what you say you're deceiving. But in this case, you stayed in the clearing. You're talking about dialogue - now you're going out. You say we have to listen - and you go out. That's what you say. In this case, you're spoiled. But it is true that somewhere else you succeed, that you are more sophisticatedly misleading, but of course you have failed here. And that's also proof of how you work. That is why I do not accept the opposition's arguments and support this basic law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u102	I'd like to start by commenting on this obstruction. I must say that the matter seems very childish - if it is not all our own way, then we will not discuss it. The LDS only has one comment and therefore goes out, and the SD also has one comment and goes out. I do not understand the maturity of these Members. But I would only quote an initiative for a fair and quality education, which I myself have signed. Two issues have already been mentioned today, one for a quality public school, where there is in fact no positive message, but only one opposition to the principle. Here is the following: "On the basis of Article 41 and 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which discusses the right to free choice of education by children and their parents, and the implementation of Article 26 of the General Declaration on Human Rights, where the talk on the right to education and the role of parents in the choice of type of education for their children, we accept the following positions..." of 10. I will read only one, "...the parents have the right to choose the education and education of their children. It is the duty of the State to create concrete, practical conditions for this right. We expect the competent state authorities to insist on establishing ever-increasing conditions for education as a whole and to create all the conditions for the exercise of pluralisation of pedagogical methods in Slovenia, particularly by encouraging those who have already been tested internationally..." There are at least five methods listed here. This declaration is a little longer, and I think it is high time to tell the public what we really want. I speak now as a Member and one of the signatories and the father of four children. "We cannot agree with the opponents of this 100 per cent funding first because we find it unacceptable to date that the unequal situation of parents and students who have to contribute 15% more than the parents who have their children in public schools in order to achieve publicly recognised education in private education." I have one child myself in public, one in private school.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again a nice greeting to the Minister with colleagues, you, colleagues and colleagues! As a result, public investment in private education strengthens, as this will have to be better if it is to prove itself in a competitive fight. However, competition is a natural law or, rather, a law of nature and such laws are not vetoed. Co-financing of private education is also an effort to improve public education. As long as public schools have to have almost a regime that reminds us of prisons, here I think of security guards or guards, we cannot talk about good public education, but about its inability to do so. When we talk about 100% co-financing of all schools' programmes, let us also say the so-called financial consequences of this law. For example, for 2008 - it is about increasing the budget at the price of a higher-priced car. That's what we're talking about today. And you will say, or the opposition will say, "So tell me how much more this means in the coming years!" It is true, more than that, in 2009, about four such cars. But I'll say more, and the referendum costs over 40 of these cars, and since you get a quantitative discount, we can round up 50 of these cars. Public education became exhausted and fell asleep because it was cared for as the only guarantee that children would become literate. What a teacher can or should not require of a student and what parents expect of a teacher is exhausted. In public education, neither teachers nor parents did well, but children were often victims because they did not need to know what was right and what was wrong, what they had to do and what they should not do. This is not about whether or not someone wanted to do something, it is about the question that some things were simply not possible to be done and they should be done, but some had happened and should not have happened. He cancelled the system of duties and rights of teachers, parents and students. In this school field, the trade unionist Mr Branimir Strukelj poses as if he has more than 10,000 teachers behind him who do not want any change. But it is hard to say those teachers who want a different school environment, where they will be able to demonstrate their expertise and moral authority. These days, many teachers call me and say that they were blackmailed to sign on to the so - called Struckle petition. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder who or what Branimir Strukelj, President of the Union of Education and Education is defending. Well, I went to look at the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language, not written by this coalition, which is all guilty and writes that the union means "a cooperative organisation of the working class that seeks to achieve socialist self-government relations and to protect the economic, social, legal interests of working people." According to the logic of Mr Branimir Strukl, for example, the textile workers' union should also deal with what dress is right for sewing clothes. With such action, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Strukl will be destroyed and crushed by many Slovenian young people's dreams, and we hope and believe that tomorrow will be a new day, more beautiful and more reliable for the Slovenian schooling youth and for the Slovenian people in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u105	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u106	Thank you very much. At the beginning of the presentations we heard from some of our colleagues about the views of the groups that it is against the public, even the public; in short, they are all against what we want to accept today. I was at the public hearing on September 21st, and I got a different impression, and we all got speeches or discussions from participants in the public presentation of opinions. The reported debaters came from different schools, from different institutions and my impression was not that the majority were against, on the contrary, most pointed out the problems that we brought to our school system with a nine-year-old and also suggested solutions to what we should do to eliminate them. And the majority opinion at the public hearing, which lasted for several hours, was in support of both laws. Some then mentioned extended stay — he was no longer in the sixth grade. The minister said that after the new, extended fifth-grade stay would be paid in full, so far it was 50% and 50% should be paid by the parents. What's with all the action? Because very few children decided to stay in the sixth grade. These are 11-year-old children, and I'm also the mother of an 11-year-old child who didn't want to go to an extended stay last year. These are children who attend the fifth grade, but are no longer tied to just one class, who go to school, because they have different classes and different teachers in different classes and want to be relatively independent, or they want to schedule their own time off and when they will do the job. If we haven't taught them this by the fourth grade, we won't be reading it in the sixth grade. Then the law gives the possibility of establishing centres. Here too many words, many too many words, centres can be established, so the centres will be established where the need for what they agree will be felt, where they will have the feeling that the centre could contribute to what they are doing. And we also talked about this in a public presentation of opinions, one of the principals said how much he deals with teaching work, how much he deals with different calls, how much he buys food, how much he writes contracts and so on. If schools and local communities assess that they need a centre, they'll set it up, otherwise they won't. I don't know why so many words about that. Then they're holy parents. Parents can unite in the unions of the parents’ worlds, we now have 3 such links or assets - coastal, domical, Ljubljanan. Parents, you know that many times or that we want to create a school space, that we want to be actively involved in what is happening in school, because at last our children are almost half a day there and it is right that parents have this option. Some of my colleagues have always said that they are not against private schools, and in the same breath, they are trying hard to do everything not to set up a private school. I'm going to have to say something again from a public statement of opinions. Mag. Damjana Krivec Charman took a little look at history. We already had a private education in Slovenia, and during the post-World War, everything that had been a private education disappeared quickly and consistently from the school field. That this has resulted in irreparable damage and an irreparable deficit, there are numerous failed reforms which have been subjected to public education in the coming decades. Now it seems that the changes that the current government intends to introduce into education are something completely new and therefore dangerous for the survival of the existing public system. So she talked about the plurality of education, which has history in Slovenia, and as I said, it is said that you have nothing against private schools, but do everything you can to disable them. And we did the same with the 1996 law when we formally allowed schools to be established, but since then no private school has been established because we have been involved in other things. In the case of standards, etc. Although we could probably talk or ask ourselves whether these are real private schools or whether they are only concession schools, because in all these schools there is a programme to be agreed upon by a competent commission and therefore this is defined as a public programme and is very little private in these schools. However, in some of these troubled high schools, where our great joy comes from the best, most successful students, there is such a problem if the subject is religion and culture. Look, the president of the diocese community from Maribor Blaž Kosi said what they were learning from this subject, which you are so afraid of, that I do not say that some even said that there are religious people in schools. It is not a believer, but it is a religion and culture, because a believer is taught in the parishes, but there is no problem with the fact that, for example, there is a medical home in the Parishs in the parish that when we did not have the conditions for a nine-year-old, many schools were taught in the parishes. That doesn't bother us, but when we have a problem or you have a problem - those who listen to us in the rooms, probably - it's a very big problem what happens within the Church. And Blaž Kosi said that, as a student of private secondary school, he would like to stress in particular that "the fear of opponents of the proposed law before private secondary schools is superfluous. At least for my school, I can claim that it is attended by children of faithful and unfaithful families. There's no record of that at school, because no one asked us about it. There is no instiling of religious thought or religious belief. From other high schools, we differ mainly in the quality of the relationship between students and professors, while stressing the importance of good relations and respect among people in general, following the maintenance of values such as truthfulness, association, mutual assistance, solidarity and the only subject we have so far and which other schools do not have in the context of compulsory subjects - religion and culture. The name of the subject is unfriendly and visually directed to most opponents of private education. But I can tell you from experience that in the first and second years of this class, we have treated man in particular as a conscious and sensitive being, with physical and mental needs." We heard about this at the public hearing. Moreover, the Republic of Slovenia commits itself to the legal regulation of the private school area of the United Nations General Declaration on Human Rights, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and so on. That is why this happened to us in 1996. And what we do today, we coordinate or give that part — see, our taxpayers, all the parents who pay taxes, we also pay primary school, or we also pay for the education of our children. And parents who then have a child in a private school have to pay for it again. So they have to pay for their child to attend a school with a public program, unlike other classmates who do not need any contribution to do so. And it is a huge injustice that only 85% of the state money we collect with taxes belongs to a private school student, then his parents have to give extra, even though they are the contributors. And in the end, perhaps even more interesting would be the list of those members of the opposition, as well as the trade unions that themselves or their children have been trained in private schools, many in schools set up by such problematic RDCs. The Secretary-General of the Swiss trade unions would also be on this list with his children and some LDS Members and so on. So far, we've been doing wrong on this segment, and I think we're removing it, and it's high time we did it. And two more words about the referendum. I have said several times that the opposition has been very tactful in changing school legislation. We were the ones, that is, the coalition that proposed general treatment. Then they waited for a time to make a proposal for a general hearing. Mrs Potrata told me, however, that we cannot tell them when they can propose. That is true, but if we had a sincere purpose, we would have done it right away, not a few days before the parental board meeting, and then we would have been able to tell us why we had so late to make a public statement. With regard to this threat to the referendum, see, we know that under the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative today it will be no longer possible to ask people at the referendum whether you are against private schools and would answer for or against. We know that the referendum paper, as article 16c says, will read: Are you in favour of law enforcement or not? It's the only thing we can decide about: against or for the law. And I don't know who will take responsibility if the referendum falls because of this campaign that you've been going through in recent months, because it means that the whole law will fall and we won't be able to change it for one year and we won't be able to arrange the very important things that we talked about in the previous law and now edit the subject so that we can finally work in line with the law because we're not now, and some other things, and especially that we won't regulate those articles that regulate teachers' education. So those teachers who signed this petition, I don't know if they really knew what they were signing and what would happen at the referendum if it fell. We all know that then there is no way for one year to do anything on this segment. We will see how the opposition will act in the future. I am convinced that this law is also one that will increase quality and will force us to ask ourselves at least a little more about quality in public schools, but not to point to private schools that have already achieved a certain quality. The problem is that public schools need to ask why we cannot achieve this.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with colleagues! We have also been on the opposition's side today, as has been the case so far, when we have dealt with this subject, with some views which I think are completely pointless. These views are repeated and repeated and, although they are always answered with appropriate explanations, they continue to be repeated. I don't believe it's ignorance, but I think it's the conscious deception of people, that people create the wrong picture of the situation, and that, on the basis of this wrong picture, they would oppose the proposed law. One of these things is that there is constant talk of how this is about equalising the financing of private and public schools. No, it is a matter of equalising the financing of the public education programme of private and public schools. The public schools outside this public education programme are financed by the whole state, i.e. the renovation of the building, investments, investment maintenance, construction of allowances, acquisition of basic funds, equipment and so on. In private schools, all this is financed by a private person. However, when we talk about an education programme that is unified in this country, it is right to leave this funding to the State, both in private schools and in public schools. And the opposition to that seems completely pointless to me. Mr Lahovnik said that private school funding is increasing at the expense of public school funding. So, because funding will increase from 85% to 100% here, funding in public schools will go down that much. Where did he get that information? Public school funding will not go down as a result! Only in private schools will this percentage increase so that this programme implemented by both schools will be equally funded and it will be possible for parents under the same conditions to enroll their children in both private and public schools - as they would like. If that did not happen, parents with tuition should pay this difference, which will now be paid by the State. Therefore, all that has been said about this law going to elitism, so that only the rich can receive education in private schools, is a completely unrealistic statement. Because it is because the state will finance the private school programme, as in public school, that accessibility will be exactly the same for everyone. Anyone who so desires will be able to enroll their children in private schools. And perhaps, in the end, only what has been said about the Catholic Church and the constitutional norm that the church is separate from the state. Yes, what does this law have to do with where the law says anything about the Catholic Church, the separation of the church and the state, and that it should prevent this constitutional norm? In what? I mean, they make something up and then they talk about it, which is completely depressed. On the other hand, there is nothing to worry about when the vice-president of the party, i.e. the other person of the party, one of the opposition parties, who is a university professor, gives his students a research task to carry out "spying" and collecting data in churches in the manner of the most sophisticated methods of audiences, i.e. collecting data for priests and believers who go to individual churches. This does not bother them, however, that it is an eccentric violation of the principle of separation from the State. Here, when it has nothing to do with this law, it is constantly stressed, as it was yesterday when we were considering returning the property to the beneficiaries. In short, marriage is good. It does bring not much change, but what it brings is positive, so there is no reason to oppose. I will uphold such a law without any reservations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u109	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. In the short term, I would like to quote or comment on a statement made by one of the opposition Members who said that the law brings a lot of confusion, including the fact that, if I recall correctly, the Minister did not know how many private schools there would be and that we were only improvising. Indeed, the Minister was unable to answer how many private schools there will be because this law, and this novel does not really talk about it, but it does talk about the law that has been passed long before us and which allows the establishment of private schools. I must say that in this opposition there is indeed one fear, one fear of quality, of difference. As a mother of four, I am not afraid of private schools, even though my children are attending public schools for a change, for example, from my colleagues. I believe that these public schools are also of great quality because private schools have also come to Slovenia, which have raised the level of education and education, and that they are also working very hard in public schools to achieve this level. Today it is really strange that we are so afraid of private capital, which also brings money into Slovenia by investing in buildings, in maintenance, in equipment. And they could if the normal ones were just happy that it wouldn't all be on the taxpayer's money. As we say, we will support these novels. I hope that teachers in public and state schools who have been manipulated in some way and who have been afraid to come forward so far and have also seen from this public debate that we are not taking any jobs, we are not quitting any schools, but we are just defending quality schools.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Now we can shed more light on some other things. One of them is the claim of the opposition we have now heard, and I do not know how long we have taken to do what we are doing to public education. This is basically a rather strange statement, if we know that 99.2% of everything that is intended for education is devoted to public education. And only 0.8%, and this percentage hasn't changed much, is really a private one. But what we need to know and why our opposition should be walking around with a bag on its head, instead of deceiving the public again, is that they are in the past, because only the program needs to be evaluated. Well, I have to explain, they're constantly manipulating it. They throw investment into the same bag, the construction of new schools, which took place through the school tolar and what is actually the implementation of the programme. But when it comes to the child, the aspect that concerns parents and children is really only about the implementation of the program, while investments, you know, were built with the help of a tolar, I think about 400 new schools. And it is not necessary to build 400 new schools in addition to these 400 schools, so it is clear that this is a different amount of funding earmarked for this purpose because it was a one-time project. And that's the number he's always manipulating. It is necessary to look at what is actually invested in the program, into what the child is directly experiencing, into what he is directly educating the child, into what the parents are ultimately experiencing. However, when we compare these numbers, it is necessary to know that if we compare this with the previous period, then we find that today more than a third of more resources are allocated to the child’s head for this purpose than in the last period of their greatest use. I could have taken a worse period, but if I took the last period when we decided to do the most, now the number is more than a third higher. And these are funds for public education. Even if you take inflation into account, the number is still a quarter higher. This is said to be just a matter of washing your own bad conscience in all their claims. Because if they mix apples and pears and mislead people, then people actually believe it's a problem. However, if you look at how much it took on the child during their period, how much the child gets now during this government period, and during this government coalition, the situation is significantly better for the child. Today, a third of the funds are involved. And the opposition here again is very inappropriately misleading the public. Why is he doing this? I've already explained it, and I won't say it again. I have something else to draw attention to in this regard. There was a lot of manipulation with that signing. No more statements, I can go look for them, you can split it up, but you probably all experienced this, even I can bring some witnesses who are employed in this house, because it's been asking me all in panic, it was manipulation by those who collected these signatures when they were talking, you know, it's private schools, it's high school schools that are going to hit you, you have to sign that, how you're going to pay these fees. And people signed, they were scared. And I've seen it myself, right here in the hallway. The lady who is an employee who has a school is employed here in the service of the National Assembly, and she asked me all frightened about how we are going to be with these high school tuitions. I said, "What are you talking about?" He says, "They told me from the unions that you'd bring in all the tuition to increase them." I said, "Please!" "That's why I signed." I said, "Well, these are your noses." And she was so convinced that I had to go to law school for 20 minutes, and I had to explain everything to her, that I spent it, that I convinced her that we were actually shutting down all the tuition fees in the school system, that this was not at all about increasing social differences, but we were also eliminating those social inequalities that stem from the previous period. And for that reason, I personally understand all those strong signatures more than the signatures in favour of the new school legislation. And I firmly believe that these fundamental objectives, which are crucial to the law, are the abolition of tuition, the increase in the role of parents and the actual realization of the right of parents to choose, i.e. constitutional rights, there is an extremely high public consensus. And for that reason, I am firmly convinced that it is worth supporting this legislation. Let me just add this to the end. On the one hand, we have witnessed for two days now in the National Assembly a constant attempt to completely subjugerate civil society by one political option and then manipulate the statements and the various actions that have been taken in this way and, on the other hand, the case of totalitarian control of those institutions of civil society that are not controlled in this way, as was the case with the SD Vice-President. And that this also concerns them, that this is relevant, just one case. Mr Gaber has now taken twice the right to decide who should have the right to speak publicly on these matters. It's something that's unimaginable. He came to me earlier, the last time we had a public hearing, he came to me and protested why some got the word. Today, however, he protested why, say, SDS got the word yesterday. I don't understand. It's such a totalitarian reflex that it's something amazing. But this debate is a burden, and therefore this debate is as it is, and because of this these moments, when we can show the actual situation, are so much more precious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u114	Thank you for saying so, Mr President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Messengers and Members of Parliament, dear fellow workers! I've prepared for this debate. I wanted to write down a lot, listen to the opposition's arguments, and then use counter arguments to perform, but the ballot is more empty. Unfortunately, there have been a lot of debates in recent times, so that there has been no confrontation of arguments, but in general, all in spite of the accusations that I am sorry for. As I said before, I am also sorry that we cannot all have a more patient debate together, but sometimes there is a lot of hate speech in the discourse in education. Once again, I would like to point out that there are no arguments or statements that say that we did not want social and political dialogue in the context of the preparation of the two novels, in particular the latter. On the contrary, I do not know the law, if you know any such practice, please tell me that the proposaler would be in two rounds in each of the parliamentary groups and propose and coordinate with them on the starting points and both. What more can we really do than that? We have been here with large groups of experts ourselves, and we have been with the Social Democrats twice, and dialogue has taken place, coordination, as appropriate. I expected that, on the basis of those meetings, we would find a common language and that this would be one of the first school changes to the novels to achieve some political consensus. Suddenly, everything turned around, especially in recent months since the summer ahead, when apparently somewhere it was decided that school legislation, including referendums, should be blocked in any way. But a referendum story can bring great negative effects. Not only on a severe stalemate, it is a barrier, if of course the referendum succeeds, for the Bologna reform. The Faculty of Education itself wanted this legal legal basis so that they could reform their programmes faster on the basis of Bologna processes. And the Bologna processes will give us new teachers and there is also a certain level of education in this law. It will be necessary to analyse the role this matter will play if the referendum succeeds, against, of course, in the negotiation of wage policy as well. Not to mention other things that are also urgent and which are being brought into law that will actually be blocked. It's hard to imagine today when I think about school, about the 21st century, that there are arguments and solutions, I don't know, last century, and that we're going back a step. Virtually all countries in Europe within the framework of the OECD, we belong to a group of OECD countries that are most developed in some areas, and education is one of them. Analysis shows that we are here to take good care of the material conditions of schoolwork. We are looking for information to see the conditions under which our teachers work and live, and under what conditions our students learn from the surface, the volume, and some other material indicators. I'm sure we're in the middle of something here. Just like we are at the top of the world when we talk about the relationship between teachers and students. Here we have phenomenal conditions that our school system is good and quality. This year or in the coming years, we will receive €170 million from this financial perspective, which we will devote or invest in human capital in education, in teachers, in retraining. These are large inputs into the development of the Slovenian school system and we can do a lot. But we need to create an appropriate regulatory environment so that this can develop. I think we've done a lot of this lately. Even now, the situation is not bad. I have to object to some of you criticizing public school that it's bad. Slovenian public school is not bad. I'm not saying I couldn't have been better, I'm sure I could have been better, so we're also making all these changes and trying to create good conditions for her work. But she's not bad. And it's not true that kids can't read after primary school. It is even very good and will be competitive for any private school if there is ever another one in primary education, although this phenomenon will be very rare. In particular, nobody can tell me that I'm some big representative of private education or their delegate or I don't know what. I am mainly concerned about the public network of schools, for a simple reason, because 99% of schools are public, and this is my primary and primary concern. But in the 21st century, we can't afford a total block or a major block to the development of private education. The trends are just going in this direction, so that public programmes, as Member Kovacic correctly identified, are financed by public programmes. Whether they are carried out in one form or another is practically irrelevant. Children have the right to be equal or equal and to attend this public programme, either private or public within the public school network. Back to taking care of the school network. I reject Parliament's statement that this will endanger or threaten the public network of schools. We have 341 schools in this immediate branch office, more than 100 of which have fewer than 20 students. We never said that we would close these schools for high costs or rationalisation. Rationalisation is not the reason for these reforms. Rationalisation and cost reduction alone are no reason to introduce these changes so that the word reform does not frighten anyone. Greater efficiency and better quality is a fundamental objective, as well as equal and greater accessibility, equal opportunities. Now that we have abolished the possibility of schooling, poor children will also have the right or the right to attend a private school from lower levels of society. We didn't want this social segregation, it was now possible. Now it was a discriminatory school or system. And that's what we're trying to eliminate, discrimination against children. I think that in this mandate the situation in education is not as devastating as some try to show it, including the union by collecting all these signatures, which I say are invalid. I wouldn't hope to bring them to the National Assembly as some legitimate message to the public about a problem. I wouldn't. Because there have been too many mistakes to collect these signatures as authentic. But at this time, not only have we increased investment in space these three years, we have also settled teachers' salaries, and we will make sure that in the future they do not decrease their relationship with other professions. We have created someone, along with some changes in laws, a kind, friendly, normative environment, material conditions for work, retraining, re-educating, investing in human capital, greatly increasing that part of the expenditure that goes directly towards development. It is difficult to distinguish which funds are used to maintain the system and which resources are more developed. But when we have done one simulation, in recent years there has been a growing part of the means that goes directly towards development and remains somewhere within the limits of the part of the means that is involved in maintaining the system as such. When I was talking about Bologna reform earlier, I forgot to say that. When we cut school fees or banned them. This law, along with some other laws, allows, as already stipulated in the Higher Education Act, for the Bologna Reform to be a fifth year study for free. This has happened in this mandate, i.e. free and equal conditions in secondary education, primary school and tertiary education. We have greatly increased not only other social transfers within the school system, but we have even introduced, as we have heard before, free textbooks and so on. Now is the time to think about what Slovenian school will be like in the 21st century. Some actors were not excluded from the 21st century school design in Slovenia and Europe, as Member Lahovnik said. We are preparing some such studies with eminent international experts, politicians and have been invited, specifically Mr Gaber has been invited to prepare, to participate in the development of such materials. And other former ministers. We've invited everyone. But you know what it's like when politics is at the forefront, then it's the right decision. Europe is now engaged in future education, trend analysis, change, talk about individualisation, a different approach, didactic approaches, a different position of individual, child, a different school, which is no longer a mass which is the result or product of an industrial society. Today it is necessary to have a type of knowledge, multidisciplinary, interdisciplinary approach to solving this problem. Now is the time for this kind of reflection. But by blocking some basic systemic changes that are urgent, we will not come from the Slovenian school to the 21st century. And the threat to the referendum means exactly that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u115	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 25.10.2007. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the LDS Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Opening login option. Mr. Janc, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, hello everyone at the gallery! When we talk about this important law and these two amendments to Article 1 and Article 24, I wonder if this is what the opposition does not accept in this law. If that's what it is, Mr. Secretary, please read these two amendments well and, for God's sake, let's accept it if that's it. I see nothing so substantive that it would be so disruptive in this story, so many words spoken in these days, in these months around school legislation. However, there are no changes, we say, and yet the precautionary principle applies here. Here the principle of sequentiality applies, but this is the principle that we talk about it. And this conversation, I think, was a lot, a lot, and yet these topics, which are so sensitive, that they touch each one of us who touches the wider population of people who are directly involved in the field of education, it is right to talk about it. And it is right that the discussions were that we exchanged views, but there was no consensus reached. I regret this, I regret that in these days, we do not find a common language at important points, such as provincial legislation, denationalisation, education, consensus, or common language. Whether the time has come to campaign for the next elections, or whether these topics are so difficult that we cannot unify ourselves on such important points as today's education, yesterday's provincial legislation, before yesterday's, I don't know, denationalisation and similar things. This concerns me, and it is certainly not the will, believe me, not even our electorate, but even less the citizens who accompany us in one way or another. This is a time when we should put our heads together a little bit more, and do something more that would be good for all these people. Unfortunately, when I look at these amendments, I don't know what to say. Whether I wonder myself or can't read what they want, or whether it's literally a little provocation of the coalition ministers to achieve something with these amendments. So I asked on purpose, Minister, what will you say about these amendments, if it is what is now, in fact, hurting our valued opposition, which is already being obstructed by today's point of view, but it is important. And what we are saying is allowed today, Mr President, who is afraid of private schools. Who's afraid of that? Who's afraid of competition? Healthy competition is always welcome and positive. And if this competition works under the same conditions - not today, but tomorrow - that's right. And whoever it is, I don't have anyone in mind that it's exclusive, I don't know now that some insanely bothers that it's going to be an exclusive church. So be it. If it suits people and our children, our students, and if such conditions are better there, they should go. Let them go. Someone's going to a store in Spar, someone's going to Mercator and someone's going to Shower. Is there something wrong with that? There's nothing wrong with that. It gives them equal conditions, and here I don't think I understand a few things. But I understand that, as the minister has repeatedly pointed out, we will not abolish any branch school if there are only 10 students in this school. But for the first time, I'm happy. God forbid you do anything like that. If I know, there's no water for the economy. I know he doesn't drink water, but these schools are extremely important. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not resolve this here in the National Assembly, the current policy and the government, and leave this to our citizens through the referendum, this is not a responsibility. These citizens sent us to the National Assembly to lead this story, to support it and to represent these interests, but not to leave such important topics through the referendum to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Not only is it too expensive a matter, it is not responsible for the current policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u118	I would have joined myself in actually going to this amendment for some kind of provocation. Look, the law sets out a commitment to flag hanging. The law determines how the flag is to be worn out in a prescribed manner. This amendment, however, refers to the fact that this is a commitment, but it is not necessary that this is actually carried out in practice, as they propose the deletion of this article, and this article speaks of the fact that if the flag does not emerge in a prescribed manner, it is considered to be carrying out an activity contrary to this law. And that's what they want to delete, which is, in fact, a call to all that this flag-exposure commitment is prescribed, but if no one sticks to it, it's no big deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u120	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. In fact, I would agree with both discussers. Perhaps, however, Mr Janc is right to approve and confirm this other amendment to the 24th Article of the Social Democrats. It is true that it will enable, cause some uncertainty in carrying out this, but I think it is going in a positive direction. However, Mr Kovacic is certainly right when he speaks of an amendment that wishes to delete the last sentence of the third paragraph of Article 1 which defines the penalties for the wearing out of flags. In Article 1, the Government opposes the amendment and supports the other. Please, if you'll take this for granted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u121	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about Article 1 and the first amendment? I'm reopening the application. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u122	Thank you very much again. Of course, I do not support this first amendment because I understand what its intention is. This part of the text, which they wish to delete, is part of the paragraph, which speaks of the development of awareness of nationality and national identity, Slovenian history and its culture, and how to achieve it. And here it says that it is necessary to mark national holidays with national symbols and all that. How typical that these same protagonists who today have been working against it, once as principals or leading them to those celebrations, have bowed down to the flag and raped their children at every opportunity. When Slovenia came alone, however, they prevented anything from taking place in the honor of the country in schools so that children could attend many celebrations at the new national holidays. Many simply did not accept these holidays. And the intention of this amendment could be illustrated by paraphrasing some statement of the ideological idol of protagonists of the future referendum, as they say. This paraphrased statement would read: "I do not recognise these countries." And in fact, they still haven't agreed today that we Slovenians have our own country. This is still a problem today. And for that, I must say, I look forward to this referendum. On this point, the Slovenians will not be convinced - that this country must be hated, that it must be mocked, that it must be denied, that I do not yet know what to do. They want the identity of this country and the national memory to wipe out Pučnik, Maistra, Sharh and other Slovenian giants. And they won't make it! I tell them they won't make it. And let them come with a referendum and we'll win. However, I would, of course, like to see some MEPs participating as often as possible in the campaign for this referendum, because this is the best advertising against the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u123	Thank you. Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Nor will I support this amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. In particular, because I think it is right that if some educational institution fails to exorcise the flag as enshrined in the law, it is in the manner provided for in the law, it is right that certain sanctions are expressed in this operation or non-action, as we live in the rule of law. Many times it is the opposition that has called on us not to live in the rule of law since the new power. When laws are to be respected, then everything is wrong. I must say, I am very disappointed in the behavior of those who have left this meeting today. I am convinced that the opposition should definitely be involved in such important issues concerning educational laws or primary school law and the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. And here I would agree with one of the speakers who said that the Members probably hid in the offices because they are ideologically disturbed by some changes within this law. And that is also what this amendment submitted by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is about. They are most disturbed by issues that touch on one side of domestic education and, on the other hand, by the question of the exaggeration and identification of state symbols. I have to say, that doesn't surprise me. If we look at the fact that, of course, the hot topic of the presidential elections in recent times, given the fact that we know that Dr. Türk, supported by the Social Democrats and Zares, has worked more smoothly in key moments of Slovenian independence, even though he has had some power and influence as a diplomat abroad, then it is likely that it is clear why today such views on such important issues. It is particularly important that the key Slovenian symbols of the country will finally appear in educational institutions through this law, and also by this enlargement of the flag. This, in the first place, means strengthening national consciousness and belonging to a nation. Unfortunately, given the situation that we see here today in this Chamber, we can say that some people actually care about national symbols and country-building, which they have, of course, proved several times by their way of political action. Nevertheless, I would like to point out here another matter concerning, above all, Article 7 of the Constitution. It is said that the country is separate from the church. Sure. Clearly and thank God that's true. However, I have a feeling that some people are not aware of this and are not of the coalition species, but of the opposition species. The fact is that an ideology of Social Democrats, such as Dr. Lukšič, should know the Constitution and know that the church is separate from the state and that in 2007 it is not, in its own words, spying for people who are not thinking differently than it is, because it is acting in accordance with some political belief to achieve some of the higher political goals. Of course I won't support this amendment. And once again, I must say that I am disappointed with this opposition attitude. I know that it is legitimate, because it is possible under the rules of procedure, but I think that we should be involved in such an important topic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u125	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova, you have very little time.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u126	We regret that the educational institution is not a self-evident exaggeration of the flag. So we don't think this amendment to Article 1 is necessary. By article 24, I must say that in New Slovenia we have worked very hard to make the Parents' Council representative as well. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u127	Thank you. Anyone else on Article 1? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate on Article 1 and the amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 24 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. I also conclude the debate on the whole law. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote in half an hour, which is at 3 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, and I also interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u128	Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the Government. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. In accordance with established practice, I ask all Members present and Members to verify the functioning of their voting devices. We continue with the interruption of the 25th item of the agenda - the third reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Primary Schools, within the framework of the regular procedure. We will decide on two amendments to Article 47. First time. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 47. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, for 30, for 17. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS also to Article 47. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, all present voted in favour. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me or warned me that, due to the amendments adopted in the third reading, the draft law would not be harmonised. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, for 48, against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjournment of the 26th item of the agenda - the third reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, within the framework of the regular procedure. We will decide on two amendments, first to Article 1 and then to Article 24. In Article 1, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. The amendment received no support from any Member, but was opposed by 46 Members and Members. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 24 of the SD Group. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 2. (for the vote was 45.)(against 2.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted in the third reading, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 2. (vote 46).)(against 2.) I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. However, we continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the property transformation of the Loteria Slovenije, by third reading in the context of the shorter procedure. On Tuesday 23 October of this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of that draft law in the context of a reduced procedure and decided, at the proposal of the LDS Group, that it should continue its third hearing today. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. On the basis of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that, due to the amendments adopted in the second reading, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 11. (vote 48).)(against 11.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also adjourn the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed on Monday 29 October at 9 a.m. Have a nice Saturday and Sunday.
