ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 27th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Anderlič, Samo Bevk, Geza Juban, Ljubo Germič from 16:00 on, Ivan Jelen, Mojca Kucler Dolinar, mag. Milan M. Cwickl, Breda Pecan, Jakob Presječnik from 2 p.m., Dr. Mitja Slavinec and Matjaž Švagan. I would also like to inform you that the LDS Group has submitted the names of representatives within the time limit, which will present the position of the Group of Members on the agenda of today's meeting. In the order of the debaters which you have already received, no names are given. The panellists will be Mr Milan Petek and Mr Aleš Gulič. We're moving on to 10. Agenda item - This is for the defence of the summer plan for development and renewal of motorways for the year 2007. The annual plan was submitted to the Council by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the annual plan. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Janez Christmas, Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Have a good day. So today, the proposal for an annual programme for the development and renewal of motorways for 2007, which in the history of the implementation of the national programme for the construction of motorways is far the most extensive, both physically and financially. The total value of this year's annual highway development and renewal programme for 2007 amounts to €734,542 million, compared to last year's 2006 development plan, which was €712,055 million - represents a 3.4% increase compared to the resolution on the national highway construction programme, which envisioned a spending of €580.70 million for 2007, which is 26.5% increase. This is the largest construction in the history of the implementation of the highway program. To build motorways, €537.25 million is allocated and 36.7% more compared to the resolution on the national highway construction programme. The re-establishment of motorways is €45.37 million and 27.4% more compared to the resolution on the national highway construction programme. The introduction of an electronic toll system is foreseen at EUR 7.37 million, and this year the main objective of the ministry is, in addition to the operational activities related to the introduction of the system in the free course of transport, the adoption of the tolling law. In order to cover the accrued liabilities and liabilities under the bonds, EUR 137.25 million is foreseen, which is 3% less than envisaged in relation to the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways, reflecting the still successful financial sustainability of the programme resulting from successful financial engineering by the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Finance and Dars. Area of financial resources. Financial resources for the implementation of the Annual Development Plan and the restoration of motorways for 2007 will be investment transfers. These are budgetary resources for the construction of motorways and European funds, concession fees, loans from international financial institutions and foreign loans, then bonds or value added tax reimbursements and other resources. In providing funding from investment transfers, the 2007 budget of the Republic of Slovenia will provide funds for the construction of motorways amounting to 13.23 million euros under the Law on the Provision of Dedicated Funds for the Construction of State Roads, as set out in the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. European funds are expected to amount to €15.97 million. As part of the funds obtained from loans from international financial institutions and foreign credits, the drawing-up of loans from international financial institutions, DEPFA II, EIB VII is envisaged in 2007. and VIII. and AVV, totalling EUR 304,73 million. Bonds or loans, depending on the situation in the financial markets, will be estimated at €209.50 million. The concession fee will amount to EUR 111.83 million in 2007. Euro1.88 million from the international programme TEMPO and value added tax refund of €77.28 million are also foreseen. In total, the estimated resources for the implementation of the annual development plan and the restoration of motorways for 2007 amount to €734.42 million. Just a few more words about building highways. In 2007, the following sections are expected to be dedicated to traffic: on the pomurska motorway leg part of the Lenart-Spodnja Senarska highway section of 2.2 km long, on the Šentvid-Kosese section of the Pesnica-Zrkovska section of the section of the Pesnica-Zrkovska section in length of one kilometer long, on the Goranj section of the Peracica-Sub-Tabor motorway in length of 2.4 km and on the Šentvid-Kosese section of 3.7 km long and on the Podruj section of Hajdin-Ptuj, and on the section of the international border crossing of Gruškov and the state border. So in 2007 a total of 17.7 km of four-way motorways and 2.3 km of connecting roads will be put on the market. Since my time is running out, all I would stress is that in 2007 there will be 101.9 km of four - lane highways, 18.7 km of fast roads, and 5 km of fast roads. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The annual plan was considered by the Transport Committee as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the President of the Committee, Mr Josip Bajc, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues! It is interesting how we know how to limit our time with the Rules of Procedure; sometimes we set hours and hours, but according to the Rules of Procedure, the Minister was able to present the 2007 motorway construction programme in 5 minutes. Unfortunately, that's how we wrote down business provisions a while ago. At its 20th meeting, the Transport Committee of the National Assembly discussed an annual programme for the development and restoration of motorways for 2007, presented to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Representatives of Darsa, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and a representative of the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council participated in the meeting of the Committee. The legislative and legal services of the National Assembly, as well as the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council, gave a written opinion on the proposed annual development plan and the restoration of motorways for 2007. In the introductory explanation, the Minister of Mag. Christmas explained that the total value of the annual development and re-establishment programme for 2007 is 734,542 million euros, which represents a 3.4% increase compared to last year's annual plan and 26.5% increase compared to the resolution of the national highway construction programme. For the construction of motorways, EUR 537.25 million is intended for the reconstruction of highways 45.37 million. EUR 7.37 million for the introduction of the electronic toll system. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union. The financial resources for the implementation of the annual development plan and the restoration of motorways for 2007 will be investment transfers of concession fees, loans from international financial institutions and foreign credits, value added tax reimbursement and other resources. In providing funding from investment transfers under the Law on the provision of dedicated funds for the construction of state roads set out in the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, funds will be provided in the 2007 budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the construction of motorways amounting to 13.23m euros. European funds are expected to amount to 15.97 million. EUR. The continuation of construction and the start of construction on individual motorway sections will be carried out in accordance with the annual plan submitted in 2007. A total of 17.7 kilometres of four lanes, 2.3 kilometres of connecting roads and a gas station for Bertoka and Cikava will be provided for in 2007. In total, construction will continue in 2007 to 101.9 kilometers four pastures and 18.7 kilometers of fast roads and 5 kilometers of connecting roads. Some state-owned connecting roads will continue to be built, allowing for better connectivity of wider urban areas in the fifth and tenth corridors. The preparation of project and other documentation and the purchase of land and other properties will take place on those sections and subsections that will start building after 2007. Final works will also be carried out on built sections and subdivisions and on connecting roads built before or after 1994. The starting point for the preparation of the 2007 annual development plan and the renewal of motorways was to complete those sections and sub-sections that are already being built and their completion and transfer to transport is technically possible in year 1007. In its presentation of the opinion, the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council focused on the implementation of specific sections. Given the limited time, I wouldn't count them. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly pointed out that the envisaged financial implementation deviates from planning in the national highway construction programme. In the debate, Committee members supported the annual plan as much as possible, with some specific comments and also proposed that the Transport Committee also hold a discussion at one of the future meetings and present the issue of the construction of the other state road network. After the discussion, the Committee also adopted the additional decision you have in writing and finally adopted a decision on an agreement on the annual plan for the development of new motorways for 2007. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees on the annual road renewal plan for 2007 adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its 113th regular meeting on 15.3.2007. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc, on behalf of the SLS Group, has a re-examination of the views of the groups of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u6	Thank you again, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the annual programme for the development and reconstruction of motorways for 2007, which was transmitted to us by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, we are pleased to see an increase in the construction of both motorways and high-speed roads, compared with 2007 as well as with the resolution on the national highway construction programme for 2007. In view of the proposed financial structure to cover all the costs of the programme, we estimate that the programme for 2007 is financially sustainable, which we expect will also take place in the future. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that the decision of the National Assembly when it decided on the guarantee of the State of the Republic of Slovenia to rent a loan to finance the construction and reconstruction of motorways was correct. Thus, a small part of the funds provided by the State budget so far in this year as well as last year, are being assessed in the Group of Members, and we assume that, even in the future, it has committed itself to the reconstruction, maintenance and new construction of state roads or the state road network. In order to approach this, it has also been expressed on the Committee on Transport, as it has been proposed that one of the Committee's future meetings should address the issues of the network of state roads, their maintenance and renewal. Some areas of Slovenia after the construction of such a highway cross and corridor III., IV. and V., they won't be connected to highways or fast roads. However, some state roads are problematic for today, to say the least, as some areas still link the macadam roads. For all this reason, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the 2007 annual development plan and the restoration of motorways, with the expectation that the programme will continue in the future, at least with the same intensity, without neglecting the maintenance and renewal of the other state road network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor, on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u8	A nice greeting to all present, and thank you for your word. The 2007 annual programme for the development and renewal of motorways, which we are dealing with today, is marked primarily by two: firstly, this is the largest annual programme for the development and renewal of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and secondly: to enter into the second period 2007-2013 of implementation of the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. The value of this year's programme is €740 million, representing 3.4% or €22.4 million more than last year's and 26.5% or less € 154 million more than was foreseen for this year's Resolution on the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. The value of the construction of motorways in 2007 increases even more than the value of the entire highway development and renewal programme. Since the 2007 projection envisaged by the Resolution, this represents 36.7% more, mainly at the expense of lower costs in the structure by introducing an electronic toll system and lower costs of credits or bonds. In the structure of financial resources for the implementation of this year's proposed annual highway programme, the most important source of indebtedness is more than 70% of the necessary financial resources, of which 41.5% in the form of loans and 28.5% in the form of securities issuance. This represents a significant deviation from the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways, the projected projections of financial resources for this year. The increase in debt in the structure replaces the loss of financial transfers from the state budget, which fell to 4% or 14.5% from the resolution of 29.9% to the stock exchange, together with the return of the value added tax to 14.5%, which represents a poor half with the Resolution of the intended share of this source for this year. In the structure of the financial resources, only the revenue generated by the concession fee does not deviate significantly from the Resolution of the planned framework, although it increases by a good quarter. With the annual plan, 537 million euros or 37.2% of the annual programme amount to more than €144 million, or 36.7%, according to the projection, as determined for this year by the national highway construction programme, and this represents 5.5% more in terms of this projection. In this sum, funds are provided for a good 160km motorway, from this 20km to the end of this year dedicated to its purpose, at 125.6 km of roads, work will continue and at 14.8 km of construction will start this year as the starting year of the second financial period for the implementation of the national highway construction programme, which represents 9.2% of the length of road sections to be built this year, and only 4.2% of the value of this year's construction. It follows that relatively few new sections will be dedicated to transport this year, depending on the 14-year average of good 27 kilometres per year, and that construction will begin in the start-up year of the new time period at about half the length of the average annual motorway built in the last 14 years. When considering, at first sight, the certainly attractive annual programme for the development and renewal of motorways, in particular due to the extent of its value, it raises some questions or dilemmas which should be clarified or answered in the debate. Some of these issues have already occurred in the discussions on the budget for this year, as well as in the discussions on the two documents that have already been discussed and adopted by the National Assembly this year, namely the consent and guarantee of the merger of Dars. However, some questions or dilemmas arise again or again. Let me at least expose some of them. First time. The question of the time of adoption of the annual plan, although we are in May, is not only a question of principle, but it must be asked and answered in at least two ways: whether such late adoption of the annual plan does not jeopardise its implementation and whether it is merely a matter of formality and the implementation of the proposed annual programme is not already under way, regardless of the fact that the National Assembly has not yet given its consent to date. Does it make sense to consider the annual plan at all, given that most of the necessary financial resources for its implementation are provided by the Act of the National Assembly on Consent to Debt and Debt Guarantee, and therefore cannot be amended by amendments to the proposed annual programme, which is contrary to the role of the National Assembly? And would it not make sense to simultaneously consider the annual plan and the consent and guarantee of the award of Dars. Another time. Is it possible to deviate so much from the proposal for an annual programme from the Resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways, both in terms of value or volume and in terms of the structure of financial resources? Third time. Should not the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways, as well as the Law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of state roads, be amended in advance. Fourth time. Is Dars’ debt still sustainable, or is there a backup scenario if Dars’ debt exceeds a sustainable framework? Petrich. Why are the envisaged means of introducing electronic tolling being reduced? Does this mean a departure from the introduction of electronic tolling? And six times. In view of the start of the second time period this year, the question arises as to the criteria by which the drafter of the annual plan is included in the new section of the national highway construction programme. Our Group's decision to support the proposed document also depends on the answers to the questions raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u10	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues. Mr. Secretary with the team, welcome. For starters, let's make this very clear. The Slovenian National Party is in absolute support of the annual road development and renewal plan for 2007. It absolutely supports, because it is based on the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways that we have adopted, because it is based on the Law on the Society for Motorways adopted in this National Assembly, because it is based on the Law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of motorways, because it is based on the decisions of the Government, which it has taken on the basis of the decisions of this National Assembly and, in particular, because it is in the interest of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, citizens and citizens, that the State of the Republic of Slovenia, which is, according to the latest figures in the 32nd place, 32nd place of the developed countries in the world, which is a great honour for this country, so there is no doubt about it. But I think it's necessary, Mr. Secretary and your team to just listen to some of the basic criticisms that are needed. In fact, in the Slovenian National Party, we first wonder how it is possible for the government to adopt the 2007 Annual Development Plan only in March and for the National Assembly to consider it only in May. The emphasis is on the word "shela." Given everything that's going on and what we know, and also with all the funds tied up, it's perfectly clear that it's nice to accept it and it's "fine" that we're going to do it, but how much we're going to do it because it's been half a year, that's the second question. The next warning from the Slovenian National Party is that we expect more, I say we expect, not only from the Minister, the Minister of Labour, I always support the Minister of Transport, but this Minister of Transport is linked to other ministries, especially the Ministry of Finance and I think of the Ministry of the Economy, and we expect that the benefits of the European means offered for the implementation of motorway programmes and road construction will be great. Now, indeed, we have all the resolutions and laws and, finally, also a programme that provides the basis for European funds to be used, I hope that the Minister knows this and the Minister warns others himself. Third time. The Slovenian national party points out that there is really no need, sometimes when the objective is adopted that it does not retain the means of limitation. We know that in practice the difference between the planned funds and the planned spending on road construction and realisation, we have heard that from the predecessors, sometimes too much. We expect, in the Slovenian National Party, that there will be no reflection after the adoption of the annual development programme, or at least that there will be no to some extent that could be included in this programme. Fourth time. I expect that the Ministry of Transport, along with the other ministries, will not forget the achievement of this objective, which is really important for Slovenia, that we also have state roads alongside the highway programme. This will be confirmed by fellow mayors, as will be confirmed by all other colleagues, so that the construction of motorways, which is accurately built in this annual programme, and in the resolution and other laws, will not result in all interventions on state roads, because, last but not least, this Slovenia is beautiful so as not to connect it with beautiful roads from smaller places to highway programmes. The point of all is that I have saved this for the end, and the essence of it is - I do not know how much you are, or if you are not colleagues and colleagues, I understand that you cannot be aware of everything, as Vice-President of the Committee on European Affairs and as a representative of the Slovenian National Party - that the European Parliament has adopted a law whereby, here, I can make a mistake for a year or two in 2011, a single toll system for 27 countries. This Decision has been adopted in the past four, five days and this Decision applies to 27 countries. Here the problems about what the system of customs should be by one year, I think it's 2011, I apologize for not remembering the date, it doesn't make sense to talk about it, because it will be a single system. This is the conclusion of the European Council and it is a shame to talk about it. I think the minister knows it, some know it, some know it, others - but it's very fresh news. And in this regard, I'm going to stress again what probably makes you all sick of me, but if you'll excuse me again, Galileo. Galileo's programme for which the Czech Republic and Slovenia are to fight, for which I would like every meeting of the Commission for European Affairs, Foreign Policy and so on, to stress, let us do our utmost to have Galileo established in Slovenia, Ljubljana. Galileo will be the one to monitor the satellite symmetry of the single toll payments. Once again, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, the distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues, let us make sure that Galileo comes to us. And from here, we will regulate a single toll payment system. And finally, nice or ugly, let's be honest, honest and let's say, people are also dissatisfied with the destruction of Slovenian roads, which are very expensive, because of the destruction of millions and millions of trucks. These trucks destroy roads with weight, tons, not cubicles. And the toll system isn't fair. Now, gentlemen of the union can resist, but 45 tons against two tons of passenger cars, compare it 10 times or 20 times more to destroy roads. The difference between payment of tolls is only three times. The destruction is 40 times higher and the payment is only three times higher and it is not fair and it is not fair to build roads in Slovenia, which will connect Europe and also all places, is not fair to destroy trucks. And I'm not talking about ours, there's a million times more strangers who move fine from the railroad to Slovenian roads and break them down, destroy them. But we are trying and giving our money to build a fair, faithful, beautiful Slovenia that connects east and west, and the fifth and the tenth corridor I hope there is something else. And also in this case, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, we remind you that, after all, the entire transport system, and if we are also talking about payment, is our business in the State of the Republic of Slovenia. If the system is to be unified, let us try to act in such a way as to allow the flow of goods and services even with trucks, but we must be honest with all people. Slovenian passenger car with a heavy ton pays only 3 times less toll than that trucker who is not even Slovenian who hurts roads 45 times more than one car. This is not fair, and let us be honest and not be misled. In short, Mr Minister, once again, thank you for harmonising the resolutions of the laws on the care of the development of the highway network. Do not forget our Slovenian state-run roads; let us agree in the congregations where and who will develop and also take into account what you have already fought, we fight together with Galileo. After 2011, there will be a single system of toll payment and why it should not take place through our country of the Republic of Slovenia. And this warning, as I said; we believe that we will execute the program, and give some limit to say that more than 10% of the anticipated auctions, that anything could happen, would not be paid. That's supposed to be fair. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President, and a very nice greeting to all! Today, many numbers have been heard, many percentages have been reported, many routes have been made or are beginning to be implemented. All of this has also been recorded in the material which is the basis for today's debate, so I feel that at least on this side I don't have to repeat anything. I would rather say a few words in terms of connotation of this highway programme and our expectations or greater or smaller satisfaction with regard to the development plan and the renewal of motorways for the year we entered months ago. Since there have been a few observations at the expense of delays, as well as something else that has already been said today, I can give up. It is essential for us to understand this plan, the plan to build and rebuild highways only as a segment of a major problem, which is called the problem of transport. If this highway development programme were to be considered too separately, then, of course, what was already heard today, many who are not so fatefully bound only to it would be placed at the brink of it, especially because traffic is really fundamental to development, namely for development in all parts and parts of Slovenia, even where the highway is not today. In a social sense, it also means the implementation of this highway programme to increase the social, social and other mobility of Slovenia and Slovenia. It is very important that we be aware of the demographic problem, which is being mitigated indirectly in this way, and it is important that we be aware of the environment in which we are significantly affected by major interventions. Whether it is in his best interests or not, it may be difficult to assess today, and surely these interventions are also problematic, irreparable for individual environments, but it is true that without doing so they would stop our development, as a whole, as a society, they would be overly lagging behind. For us citizens and citizens, however, most importantly, or this will mean something to us in raising the quality of living, especially those living in areas where life has become almost impossible due to excessively poor traffic. Of course, it is also a security issue when we look at the reports, we see that this safety on different roads, not only on highways, is bad, we have major problems and that we do not know how to tackle this problem properly. We know that just as highways are very important other state roads, this has already been mentioned today, for many which use less motorways, perhaps even more important than the development of highway construction itself, but this is not the subject of discussion today, and it is right that these connotations are aware that only building motorways cannot solve our traffic difficulties. In the DeSUS Group, aware of this problem, we support this programme, among other things, because it has only moved towards the northeast of Slovenia, because it realizes what was already determined by the government years ago, that the pomurski arm will also start building a little faster and that we will invest the most where they have the biggest problems, and luckily so this year. However, it is good that even in 2007 motorways are being built and renovated on all four sides of the Slovenian sky and it is important for us in the DeSUS Group that the greater weight is intended for those places east of Maribor. Nevertheless, let me repeat just one more warning that has been given many times. We estimate that it would be better if the comments and opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service were only taken into account, which this time has not been fully taken into account, so that there could be fewer perceptions, including in the area of the construction and reconstruction of motorways. Otherwise, as I say, the DeSUS Group supports this programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ms Maria Possonec has the floor on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u14	To all present a nice greeting and thank you very much for your word. The Ministry of Transport has submitted an annual plan for the development and renewal of the motorway for 2007. I support the plan and, of course, I will vote in favour. The plan is very ambitious, also financially well worked and what is to be said is the upgrade of the ABC system and then the introduction of the system in free traffic. And finally the construction of the motorway also reached Prekmurje, you could say that with a 10-year delay, because in 1991 we started talking about the need to build this infrastructure faster. I do not think it is possible to calculate the loss suffered by the Premur economy after some - every year 2.5 billion. Furthermore, it is not possible to calculate the human lives we have lost because of road accidents, the harmful effects on human health and the harmful effects on the environment, damage in infrastructure and in quality of life in general. I also point out that two million trucks are to be expected every year in such a growing traffic, no road traffic will be resolved. And so I would warn you that, although you are late, you should also start planning the railway from Lendava to Beltinos, because 17 km is not such a distance that it could not be built. For reasons of fairness, I must say that no ministry has done as much for the Premur economy as it is now if this infrastructure is to be implemented. So thank you so much for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Hrvat has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with co-workers, respectable High Council! The consideration of the 2007 annual road development and renewal plan is a document on which the construction and reconstruction of motorways in our country will be based this year. When we review the material, we can quickly see that in our country's history it is the farthest annual development and re-establishment programme in our country. The vast majority here relates mainly to the construction of the fifth and tenth European corridor, which is expected to be completed within a few years. A number of motorway sections in Slovenia will also be built and upgraded. I would also like to give a few words to the financial resources from which this project will be financed. In addition to our budgetary resources, motorways will be renewed and built from European funds, bonds and other resources, as shown in the material where the entire financial structure is indicated. We can also understand from the material that the starting point for the preparation of the 2007 annual development programme and the restoration of motorways, the completion of those sections and subsections that are already being built and their completion and transfer to transport was technically possible this year, in 2007 and that the construction of motorway sections on the priority routes of the Slovenian motorway cross will continue as quickly as possible: on the Goranjska, Lower Poland, Pomerania and Stryrian motorways. In addition to motorways, the construction of some state-owned roads will continue, allowing better connectivity of wider urban areas in the fifth and tenth corridors. In line with the upgrade of the entire fifth and tenth European corridor, there is also a tendency towards upgrading suitable resting places along built highway sections. However, it is necessary to recall that part of these constructions or building dynamics are also linked to individual concessionaires and their capabilities. I would also mention the investment renewal of buildings, which is an integral part of the annual development and renewal of motorways in 2007, which will take place on the older sections of the Slovenian motorway network, where injuries have been identified in the process of regular and major inspections, which already threaten the safety of the structure and therefore do not guarantee the safe development of traffic. In order to determine the advantages of regular and main inspections, a priority line of damage to the facilities is drawn up and reconstruction work in the tunnels will also be carried out in the framework of the renovation of the facilities. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, it seems important to us that despite the construction of new motorway sections, we do not forget the maintenance of already built motorways, as this means concern for increased safety on our motorways. This is certainly an important factor in the possibility of reducing traffic accidents, and we are pleased that part of the funds will also be devoted to modernising the equipment of the existing motorway network and enhancing safety. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcome the introduction of an electronic toll system as one of the Ministry's priority objectives, of course, in addition to operational activities that are first linked to the upgrade of the existing system and then to the introduction of the system in free traffic. In 2007, it is envisaged to continue the activities already initiated in the introduction of the electronic tolling system in free circulation, first of all for the goods vehicles of the maximum permissible mass exceeding 3,500 kilograms. We are pleased that, in accordance with the deadline and the concept prepared, the tender documentation for that electronic toll system will also be launched and expected to be completed. All parallel activities required in accordance with the Action Plan to establish and operate a new electronic tolling system will also be carried out. All of this is also the reason why in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we support the 2007 annual development plan and the restoration of motorways, of course in the hope that construction will be carried out in accordance with the plans set out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Pavlich has the floor, on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Nice greeting to the Minister with a pretty strong team, Mr Siročič, Dr Vidic, Dr Verlič and Mag. Ficko! It is also a nice welcome to the Tribune visitors, in particular Mrs Fontes Muñoz, the Ambassadors of Spain and Mr Prat, the Special Commissioner for Mediterranean Affairs. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we support the annual plan for the development and renewal of highways for 2007, because this is a kind of scar that supplies vital organs in our country. However, we have some kind comments or suggestions that we hope will be supported by the Ministry. The first set of issues concerns financing the construction of motorways. As we know, by 2004 it had been done in two ways, especially through credit, highways and non-roads, i.e. fast roads, connecting roads and some others, were financed by means of means. The problem is that these funds, which are deliberately used and foreseen in the budget, have been a significant asset. From 2003 to 2013, EUR 1.96 billion was foreseen, i.e. for fast and binding roads, and some funding was foreseen in the national programme as well as in the law on State roads after 2013. In fact, the country is expected to use some funds symbolically after the construction of the entire motorway network, as certain costs also occur after this period. Since 2004, the funding method has changed or changed and Dars has been forced to increase the amount of credit funds to finance the construction of the highway cross due to the loss of certain dedicated funds and the accelerated construction, in particular the Mooring Highway and the East Highway. Let us also say that one of the arguments was why so much less earmarked or no resources in the budget would be that there would be significantly more resources earmarked for state roads, which, of course, also happened, but on the other hand, we can also see; and this is confirmed by experts; that some significant achievements in this area have not been or were certainly insufficient in view of the very, very optimistic cash flow or the sum of money allocated to state roads in 2004. This raises the question of how sections of motorways, fast roads and connecting roads will be financed from the additional programme of the national programme for the construction of motorways, as it is sections that are not attractive to the so-called concession building - and allow me to mention them. The first set refers to motorways and fast roads which were not an integral part of the national programme. First: Division Divaca - Illyrian Bistrica - Jelshane, in total length 39.40 kilometers, then section Kosesa - Kozarje extension in six pastures in total 2.5 kilometers, section Ptuj or Drazenci - Gruškovje in total length 13.9 kilometers, section Dravograd - this is the fast road Velenje - Arja Vas in total length 51.45 kilometers and section of the rapid road Koper - Šmarje - Dragranja in total length 15.4 kilometers. The second unit refers to the connecting road to the motorway network, which were also not an integral part of the national programme, namely the connecting road on the Šentvid - Koseze highway; let me mention the water catchment area - Jeperca and Jeperca - Stanezici and the connecting road west of Maribor on the highway Slivnica - Pesnica. What are the possible solutions to this problem? Three are - in our opinion. Firstly: re-ensure of funds from the State. Second: concessional construction of individual motorway legs, where it is possible and transportable at present, for example on the highway section Postojna or Divaca - Jelšane and third: concessional management of individual motorway legs e.g. Šentilj - Gruškovje, or the pomurski motorway leg. Another problem we've been talking about here is putting the highway into space. The procedure was once regulated by the Space Regulation Act and we can see that there were procedures for such or other reasons, and all of them are red tape, too long. Thus, the average procedures should last from the initiative given by the Minister of Transport until the adoption of the national location plan for about three and a half years. The shortest so far lasted one year and two months - which is good, even record-breaking, and the longest for more than seven years. The reasons - increasing the scope of the evaluation of variants with additional verifications at the request of individual or more stakeholders, then additional coordination with local communities - just remember the tape, as it is - of course all mayors require construction as soon as possible, and on the other hand, the complications of minor matters at first sight. Then, the untimely decision-making in the key stages of the procedure. Procedural procedures are significantly longer than envisaged in optimally set deadlines. There are still delays in design orientations due to limited resources and large parts, as well as a lack of intensive communication between the manufacturers of ideas projects and the state location plan. This is due to the principle of successive phases of work, which is not in line with the principles of the national programme. What did the Law on Spatial Planning bring? Of course, there is some optimism on the one hand, but on the other hand we can see that these anomalies have failed to be eliminated. The situation is about the next. According to the old legislation, if I can do a little or a lot of caring, the Ministry of Environment and Transport in Ljubljana got into the car and slowly drove to Maribor. Under the new legislation, the ministry re-enters the car, leads to Celje, and then in Celje continues to drive with all the consents and permits it leaves to the investor, which in fact means the same waste of time or perhaps even greater. Therefore, our suggestion is that the Ministry of the Environment adopts, as soon as possible, sub-legislative acts on the basis of this regulation and that the new law also be brought into line with certain other regulations that constitute a barrier. Let me mention, for example, the Nature Protection Act, the Nature Act and some others, which were not defined either in the Space Planning Act or in the new Spatial Planning Act. In particular, the question arises when sections of motorways, fast roads and connecting roads will be placed from the additional programme, as it is sections that are already burning in traffic. Let me mention the following, for the first time, highways and fast roads, which were not part of the national programme, Divaca - Ilirska Bistrica and Jelšane, Kozeze - Kozarje, Ptuj or Drazenci - Gruškovje and Koper - Šmarje - Dragonja. Then connecting roads to the highway network, Šentvid - Koseze, Jeparca - Stanežič and again to be constructive, whether there is anything possible to do to make the matter better. We think so. Again, we propose three sets of solutions: the first is the harmonisation of spatial and environmental protection legislation; the second is the reduction in the number of all necessary procedures. It's possible to do that. Let me mention just one example, a very constructive approach and also the cooperation of the Minister of Public Administration with the people of Dragonje, where, even after the old legislation on the international border crossing and also on the temporary bypass, we have managed to significantly reduce procedures, so this is possible. As it is said, greater cooperation between different actors at different stages of renewal or the construction of motorways. The next issue that I would like to discuss briefly is the broadcasting of motorway construction with public procurement. The current legislation, in particular the law on review of the procedure, allows all tenderers to make a speculative complaint, which is often abuse, but not just complaint. Yeah, they have this legal option, but this legal option is really completely distorted a lot of times. And we can see that the same problem is faced by the state in other investments of state importance, to mention only the Oncology Institute. Due to such speculations and complaints there are major delays in the broadcasting of works and currently the most famous section, there are certainly a section of the rapid road Koper-Isol and the section of the highway Slivnica-Drazenci. You probably don't have to go into more detail, because we can read about it in the paper every day. What is the option of solving the problem? Theoretically very simple, almost probably a little harder. Mutual harmonisation of the Law on Public Procurement and the Law on the revision of the procedure, which will prevent such anomalies. The next problem I would like to draw attention to and have already been mentioned here is, of course, an increase in investment values in the current annual plan compared to the national programme. Let me mention Šentvid - Koseze, Pluska - Ponikve and Ponikve - Krustje. And also tying up the road, for example, Jeprca-Stanezik. I have to point out the following as a lawyer here. The annual plan is not intended to change the values set out in the higher act, which is a resolution on the national programme. This is by amending the essential provisions of the law by means of sub-laws. I think that we Members have the right to decide on such increased funds because of me at an extraordinary meeting and following an urgent procedure. Nothing will hurt, it is a national programme and, of course, it is a problem where, at least as far as confirmation is concerned, we reach consensus relatively quickly. I would also warn, and we would point out the many that we have ever dealt with in traffic, traditional monopolistic connections, such as Dars, SCT, then Traffic Design regarding the ABC system, and some more could be found. And on the electronic system, we have already discussed this, the Government has adopted an action plan for the introduction of an electronic toll system in free circulation, with the conditions for interoperability in the European Union and, of course, in this plan we can find a vision, first such a system should be introduced in the open air on highways and fast roads by the end of 2008, and then after this year on the parallel road network. I just want to know if Mr Minister or colleagues can explain how this programme is being implemented. And lastly, I'm going to end with this, what is it like to actually rebuild a highway, what happens when many of us drive home every day? I tell you only one case that is not good, neither from the point of view of tourism nor from the point of view of us, citizens or citizens. On the eve of the holidays, 26.4.2007, that was Thursday, when we finished the meeting, I drove to Cyprus at about four and a half o'clock this afternoon. As you know, somewhere in the middle of the highway, the road narrows down to one lane, where you lose an average of at least half an hour, if not more, but you would understand that, construction works are going on, the roads need to be restored before the main season. But the problem that not only me, which tourists see in particular, is that there is no worker anywhere at half past five, there is no machine anywhere but that nothing is happening. And I don't think that's right. If we drive on German roads or on other roads, they do so, say, 24 hours a day, even at night, that things will be brought to a close. I don't know if there's really a reason for further employment to increase the value of all parts, but in my opinion, given the fact that the season is knocking on our door, there is something to be done about it. As it is said, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the annual plan, but we would be very pleased if the ministry could take our good suggestions into account in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Friday has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the minister and his associates! In the Liberal Democracy, we would be even more pleased if representatives of the Ministry of Finance, led by the Minister, sat next to them. However, it seems that it is a practice for these kinds of laws to fail to harmonise or agree on the presence of both ministries, and I will further explain why. The 2007 Annual Road Development and Renewal Plan foresees works in a group of €734 million, which is the largest construction in the history of the implementation of the road programme, according to the calculation of the Ministry of Transport. With such a plan, of course, it is difficult to remain indifferent or even oppose it, and even at the LDS Club we do not oppose it and we will support it. However, in doing so again, this time for the third year in a row, we must draw attention to the facts at issue, which unfortunately shed a bad light on the otherwise ambitious plan of building and rebuilding Slovenian highways this year. We would like to highlight the fact that the physical and financial realisation envisaged thus departs from the planned national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. The government and the ruling majority in the National Assembly have again arrogantly ignored both the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Services and our warnings that the reasons for such derogations should be duly presented in the act itself. However, if there are legitimate grounds for such derogations, the Government should prepare and submit to the National Assembly amendments to the relevant rules or laws on which the annual plan should be based. Unfortunately, this is not the case and, from a legal point of view, the proposed act is therefore controversial. The plan of physical realization is so abandoned by a process in which the current leadership of Darsa, which we consider to be the case, is often attacked or processed by various political and logistical actors, which is why there is sometimes a reality beyond the current national programme of construction and sometimes beyond the opinion of the profession. On the other hand, financial realisation is due to the changed method of financing the construction of motorways. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have said several times in the last two years that we cannot agree with the financing of building in the form of record integration. It is highly doubtful that Dars will be able to repay loans that are the largest in the history of Slovenia alone in the coming decades, according to known assumptions. However, we are firmly convinced that we need to talk seriously about the long-term sustainability of the entire motorway programme today. We join the opinion of Dr. Jana Oplatnik of the Faculty of Economics and also a member of the Government Strategic Council for the Economy, who warns by way of funding the entire highway programme and who is convinced that the transfer of responsibility for financing the construction of motorways from the country to Dars is problematic, as it undermines the construction set up by the national programme for the construction of motorways. The plan, we all know, was that the programme will expire by 2013, the loans will be paid by 2030, and 4% to 5% will be generated on motorways from 2010 onwards, which would be used at the end of construction for construction under the additional programme and for the construction of the third development axis. These are, therefore, the findings of Mr Freighter. By changing the funding method, the system is collapsing. For about 10 years or more, the deadline for repayment of credits, the return on the construction of additional motorways and the development axis will be extended, and the construction of motorways will also be undermined due to higher funding costs. Additional responsibility for the construction of motorways may also become controversial from the perspective of international institutions. In the event that Dars hypothetically decides to repay the guarantee that the State gives him for all the loans, he should or should all of the total loans be paid out of the budget. Of course, there is a point to how long international institutions will tolerate such additional debt. If there is a reduction in Slovenia’s rating, Slovenia’s financial rating, the current Minister of Finance will, of course, have to seriously imagine whether such a game will continue. And it's not just the current minister and the current government. All of these do not seem to be aware enough that ministers and governments are changing, but the obligations and consequences remain and will be felt by the citizens of Slovenia. Since the state of Darsu will not spend more than 13 million euros in the budget this year and will insist that Dars builds highways in an accelerated rhythm, it may be that they will be forced to borrow credits this year. So we hope that this will not happen, and we hope that our colleagues who sit behind me believe or have prepared calculations that will not confirm these pessimistic predictions. The collapse of the national highway construction programme and the possible bankruptcy of a state-owned motorway undertaking seems, at least in our opinion, to be closer from year to year, as the Government does not adhere to the Law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of state roads, whereby the Motorways Company should receive around €155 million from the country each year. How long are we gonna pay off the loans, because Dars' debt is actually a public debt, at this point nobody knows. Some estimates suggest that this payment will continue beyond 2040. As it appears, the victims of such reckless financing of the construction of the highway programme will be the users of the motorways themselves, as such a way of financing requires to increase tolls after 2008 by perhaps more than 40%. Such are at least the financial sustainability analyses of the completion of the national highway construction programme prepared by the Faculty of Economics in 2005. Apparently, the dilemmas surrounding financing the construction of motorways are also within government actors who must submit an annual plan to the National Assembly. This shows the late date for the adoption of this act - that is, only in the second quarter of this year, if we know that the proposal for a plan by Darsa and the Ministry has been prepared and submitted to the Government for adoption by October 2006 and that coordination within the Government has taken place by April, it shows that there are only dilemmas within the Government. The act, which should be adopted by the end of the previous year, will only take place at the height of the construction season - unacceptable. That such a delay in the adoption of the plan raises doubts that the construction runs independently from the confirmation at the National Assembly and that the highest legislative authority is only a forum for covering the decisions already taken and implemented in the work. It is clear that the Minister of Finance does not manage public finances either, so in the budget it constantly reduces and agrees to reduce financing for development projects, such as the financing of highway infrastructure. Unfortunately, the consequences of such financing of the motorway programme will be felt by the current and future generations of highway users, because they will have to pay higher tolls due to the more expensive way of financing motorways. These are our substantive concerns. However, some eminent lawyers have legal concerns. The government's decision not to devote EUR 154 million of budget money to the highway programme this year, but only a good EUR 13 million, which justifies the adoption of the law on the implementation of the budget, is inappropriate - say, for example, Dr. Miro Cerar of the Faculty of Law and continues: "If the data is true, then such an approach introduces non-consistency into the legal system, because the provisions of the law stipulating the obligation to finance the construction of motorways and later budgetary laws are at least partially contrary." We also agree with their claim in the Liberal Democracy, and we believe that such procedures and such violations of laws also undermine the credibility of the National Assembly. The reduction of funds through this law is not a priori unacceptable, but at least it is inappropriate, since there are two laws with a substantially different function. As I have already mentioned, in the LDS, we are convinced that the debate on the sustainability of the entire motorway programme is necessary today. Unfortunately, this debate by the ruling coalition in the National Assembly at the time of the consideration of this annual plan, as well as the current Chairman of the Transport Committee, prevents. The Committee on Transport did not even ensure the presence of all the most responsible operators of the motorway programme, except in order to ensure the remaining conditions for a competent and professional discussion on this issue. We mean, of course, the non-participation of experts or responsible people from the Ministry of Finance. This reduces the credibility of the National Assembly as a whole and, above all, the Committee on Transport itself in an area that also has major macroeconomic implications for our country. It is also incomprehensible that the current issue of the sustainability of the motorway programme by the ruling coalition in the National Assembly is that all the most responsible actors in the implementation of the motorway programme are willing to participate in such a debate. Moreover, they themselves are aware of all the real and potential risks of ensuring the long-term sustainability of the entire motorway programme and therefore have some proposals already in place. For example, this was shown by Radio Slovenia Studio at 17, on the 4th of April this year. Radio Slovenia, especially the authors, deserves all recognition for such a high-level debate and the ruling coalition in the National Assembly, which does not allow such debates, and our protest. In the end, let me say that in the LDS Club we are not at any time opposed to the accelerated continuation of the construction of the Slovenian motorway network. However, we want construction to be based on proper legal frameworks and that the ruling coalition in the competent authorities and bodies allows for a debate on the issue of long-term sustainability of the entire motorway programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! That's a nice greeting for me. The greeting is also valid for the Minister of Mag. Christmas with colleagues and the president of the board of directors of Dars. In the New Slovenia Group, we firmly believe that the involvement of the Slovenian motorway cross in the European motorway network for the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union countries is strategically linked. It is therefore important that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia carefully examine the proposal for an annual development plan and the renewal of motorways for 2007. We estimate that it is right that the annual road construction plan has already received urgent acceleration in 2006 and that this year it is still on the rise. This year's record ambition of the highway development and renewal plan is inevitable and necessary, as we still do not have at least some inter-regional motorway links in the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenia is still not motorway bound to all neighbouring countries. In this place, I would like to express my personal satisfaction and also my appreciation to all those involved that the so-called "mushroom" is making good progress. In Novi Slovenija we support the construction of the Slovenian motorway system as quickly as possible in an optimal and economic manner, not on the basis of the quality of construction. The proposal for an annual programme for the development and renewal of motorways for this year is, in the history of the implementation of the national programme for the construction of motorways, the most extensive, both physically and financially. The total value of this year's annual development and highway renewal programme amounts to a good EUR 734.5 million, which represents a 3.4% increase compared to last year's annual plan, compared to the resolution on the national highway construction programme, which is an increase of a good quarter. It is therefore the largest extent of construction and restoration of motorways with the aim of V. and XX. The European Corridor will be completed by 2009. We understand this objective as an obligation to our citizens and citizens and the obligation to stay together in the European Union. The financial resources for the implementation of the annual development plan and the restoration of motorways for 2007 will be investment transfers, i.e. budget allocations for the construction of motorways, and European funds, concession fees, loans from international financial institutions, bonds, value added tax reimbursements and other resources. As long as we see that the financing system for the construction of motorways is sustainable, we will also approve such financial resources in New Slovenia. Today, quite a few critics have been heard, why so few budget funds to build highways. Let me say that no one who has debated this way has touched the situation on other state roads. According to some calculations, the reconstruction of other state roads would be based on the current situation of about 800 billion Slovenian tolars. In the New Slovenia Group, with the proposal for an annual construction and reconstruction plan, the motorway would be fully satisfied if it did not miss some sections of the national highway construction programme, which provides for the start of the construction of a fast road for this year, including Gorisnica and Ormož and between Markovci and Gorisnica. For this reason, we have also tabled an addendum to the annual plan on the Committee on Transport. At least we are partially satisfied with the conclusions adopted on the work body and because we trust this government, we are confident that the government will keep its word and that building on the sections mentioned above will also receive urgent acceleration and additional engagement of all those responsible, including environmentalists, and in particular the start of the construction of these sections - at the latest in early 2008. Respected, motorways are not only the largest Slovenian project of the century, the first major project in Slovenia, which, at the turn of the millennium, at the transition from the industrial to the information era in the light of the so-natural development, could coordinate and direct the key aspects of spatial, economic and cultural processes, connect the existing network of roads and cities, connect the traditional logic of migration with European transport and development flows; in short, the highway programme could be a link between those universal civilizations that never forgets that they can stand and survive only on solid foundations of autonomous culture. If we are talking about highways, we are talking about global land communications or connections. At the same time, highways in the eyes of Members have a very local importance and responsibility. Depending on the satisfaction or judgement of the document under consideration, the document will also receive support from individual Members of the Republic of Slovenia, and certainly from the majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u24	Thank you for your words, Mr President-in-Office, Mr Secretary-General, with my co-workers. I'd like to add some clean personal observations to this annual plan. It seems to me that I have heard this story six times or even seven times in this House, and it is more or less the same every year. In fact, it's not different in terms of views. We all experience this Slovenian road cross, and in fact I could say the cross in the right sense every day, especially at the ends. So today, when we drove to this meeting here to the National Assembly - I will say by the way - I am about to break through from Ormož by Ptuj, that is, 25 kilometers, spend a fat hour and then a bad hour further to Ljubljana. So, when I think about coherent regional development, I am also glad that it is accelerated to build on the pomurski kark, to save other bottlenecks, because it is actually outrageous - I don't know, in 1986 I drove to Nis, where I served the army, and most of the road between Belgrade and Zagreb was two lanes, today it is a highway. Even if you drive from Austria to Stockholm there is a highway and here we have this highway - one part in Gorenjska and then one part past Trebnje and so on - narrows it down to two lanes and presents incredible delays in this work and in Europe during the summer months. By what means, then, throughout Europe, Slovenia can be identified by these unresolved problems. And I wonder if that's really the way it's supposed to be. Or do we really have to study 30 conceptual variants in any such solution, and I don't know how many projects we can make, and what's more, and give big profits to all these designers, to all these planners, and so on. In a word, I would like to add in this debate that the construction of roads in Slovenia is too expensive. And because it's too expensive, we need more resources every year, bigger credit arrangements every year. Of course, we wonder if this road cross with all the crosses and problems will ever end. Of course, when we're done, there's going to be a lot of other questions, which is that we're going to have to start rebuilding all of this. And if today this traffic chaos is seen on Slovenian highways, then they become trucks for columns of trucks that are rolling through Slovenia from eastern to western Europe and vice versa. However, is this even a solution at this point - is it solvable as some argue that we will get these trucks on this short route to the railways? I think it's a big problem that you don't, because this would cause another kind of congestion again. So roads are a fact, and I am one of those who agree that a lot of money is spent, including through credit. Of course, we should do everything we can to speed this building up as quickly as possible and to bring it to an end. It sets me up, like some others, for the purpose of addressing this annual plan in this National Assembly. Well, if not, at least we can get to know him, because it is obvious that Members with any amendments cannot influence this; it is said that what is ahead of us is the fact that Dars has been confirmed by the Government and ultimately by Parliament, and that is how it turns year after year. I have also observed, and I agree with the view of the Legislative and Legal Service, that, as long as this programme is no longer or cannot be aligned with the national highway construction programme, the Ministry and the Government should then propose to Parliament an amendment to the document, not that the national programme or resolutions be bypassed in this way every year with the annual plan. I just can't agree with this anymore, because I can see that certain environments in this country, which hoped that, in accordance with this resolution, they would only come to a slightly better road connection on their own once in a year - it's slowing down and moving to some undefined time and people can rightly wonder whether they will ever come to an appropriate solution themselves. And with that, my respectable colleagues and colleagues, I will be done. I am very unhappy that this national programme is not followed by an increase in funding and a promotion of construction in one segment. This is of course good and I support it, but it would also be necessary to look with the same gentleness at the part where this construction is delayed and then in, I would say, an excuse to this postponement somehow through our bureaucracy is found by casual excuses such as Natura 2000 and so on. I think that we have also agreed on certain matters on the Committee and later in our meeting with the Minister of the Environment as Minister of Transport and that what the Committee has adopted in its two additional conclusions at its meeting will also be - Mr Minister, as you promised and the promise to do - that this second year will begin. For this reason, I will support this plan today. I understand it's a solution within the limits of what's possible. However, if that is not the case, next year, if I continue to oppose the annual plan in this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Homan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Good bye to all of you! If the annual development plan goes as planned, this year's year has also been welcomed by a nice winter, I think that a number of sections will be devoted to early management, which is very commendable. From this city, I would like to thank the workers on the highway when we drive along the roads and look at these construction sites, they are, for my understanding, as laymen, all respectable. We can be happy that there were no major work accidents on the entire section of the construction site, which is commendable if we look at the heights and working conditions that these workers face, and we can say that they are truly worthy of great praise and thanks from this city once again. The annual road development plan goes as planned. Here I would particularly criticise or warn that the development of resting places or these decaying facilities along the highways is not somehow going according to plan, or that we are not most proud of it, or that we are not following this trend of Europe that we like to compare ourselves with. I'd like to touch most of the restrooms. I believe that our resting places are not built according to modern standards. We go out a lot of times and we can compare how this is done outside, how this is done in Austria and Italy. I think we have a lot of local knowledge that we can make such resting places so that foreigners can come and see how this is done in Slovenia. I think we have knowledge, we have the will, and here, above all, I would appeal to Darsa's representatives to listen to people working on highways, what our users of Slovenian highways need. In particular, I would like to establish here that on Slovenian motorways gas services are modelled and can be compared to a variety of gas services in Europe. As for the other guest offers, we are still far behind. My heart hurts like Slovenca that we let on our highway aliens, various "marshes", "cartogrils", to offer or rape foreign food in various ways, various pizzas and I don't know what else to do, that we don't know how to make one Slovenian chain of resting places on highways, that we don't know how to offer Slovenian food of Slovenian goodness to foreigners here, but we put these eminent locations on the resorts, these guest restaurants in the management of foreigners. I don't understand that, and I can't understand it. I also can't understand why we don't pay toilets on highways in Slovenia. We have our own philosophy that the use of toilets is free. Of course, we also have the standard or purity on these toilets as we have. I'm not gonna say it's bad, it's satisfying, but if there was a constant, 24-hour presence of cleaners to pay for these toilets, it would certainly be a better service. Then, if I touch another game and other objects. Trucks stop, we have mandatory rest here for these mobile workers, then we have summers of various closures for trucks. The trucks are still standing in our resting places for two days. What can we offer them here? We can offer them very little: staying in the cabin, maybe taking a walk to the buffet, that's all. On Slovenian highways there is a lack of a cheap chain of these motels or hotels, where a 300-, 400-km driver can rest and at an appropriate price, I stress at an appropriate price, that is a maximum of 10 euros to rent a room, take a shower, rest, sleep and then continue driving. This is not the case in Slovenia in Slovenian resorts. Once we're on the highway, we also have pets with us. After 300 kilometers of driving, if we take one puppy with us from the Netherlands to the sea or anywhere, we don't have one fenced space where we could put the euro in the machine, open the door to get to the vegetables, we could "fly" that dog, go back to the car and continue our journey. After that, tourists ask, this is what tourists miss! Let's stop at Slovenian resting places, representatives of Darsa, ask! You'll get a lot of useful information. These people have and are treasures of ideas. Why don't we just ignore them, not listen, I don't know. I've been on the highway myself for 10 years, and I have a lot of experience, what Slovenian or foreign tourists need. And there's a lot to be done here. And once again, let's not compare ourselves with Europe, let Europe come and learn from us. We have the knowledge, and we just offer to make the most of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Chairman. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I am very pleased to note that this annual highway programme in Slovenia has also received full support among members of the National Assembly. This means that we can be united at some point in position and opposition, and obviously we are here. That this year's plan is ambitiously prepared is a thank-you to the ministry and Darsa team that have boldly set this up. And this historic record, the largest amount we are investing in this highway cross, certainly means the fact that we want to finish it as soon as possible. I don't know who would be against such ambitious plans to really end this cross in 2008, which is extremely important for the further development of Slovenia. All those who use it know what it means if you do not have this highway cross anywhere near your region or congregation. I'm happy and congratulations to the team that prepared this. I also believe that the Society for Motorways will have a lot of work to do in realizing it. In the spirit of the many complaints that occur in this area between the operators of this programme and through the audit procedures that are very complex, difficult and also make it difficult to carry out regular work, I hope that the Government will come to the National Assembly as soon as possible with the amendment of this law on revision of the procedure, because I think it is too complicated to take too much time to investors in this area and it is already being used for certain things in a negative sense. That is why I am afraid that these many millions of euros may not have been realized because of such audit procedures that are taking place in the Slovenian space. However, I hope that Dars will prepare this well and that the revision of the audit procedure, which, I hope, will come to the National Assembly, will make certain corrections in a positive sense for the faster implementation of these tasks. Of course, the various financial resources provided in the report itself provide a solid source, and that there is also credit, thank God that there is a sufficient financial arrangement on the market. And it is right that they also make such investments in Slovenia, not only with their own budget resources, because it would be a big mistake and a mistake for me. But the fact is that we must not forget that story, which I think is also very important, which will follow the next stage when this highway cross ends - the third development axis. We hear a lot about her, it's happening, but I think it's probably a little too slow. This is also of exceptional importance for Slovenia - Koroška, Bela Krajina. I think we should do as much as possible for this third development axis at this time when the motorway cross ends, but it is very difficult and long-lasting. Although we have corrected the Spatial Planning Act, I fear that we will be late again and then miss the beginning of the third development axis, which is expected to be implemented when the highway cross in Slovenia ends. That is why I appeal to everyone, including the Ministry of Transport, especially the environment and others, to prepare as much successful and positive material as possible, so that investments on the third development axis can then be started, which is for those regions and those municipalities that are not fortunate enough to live along the highway, a large minus at that time, and we have more difficult conditions for development than those municipalities that already have a highway in their environment. Therefore, if we want a more coherent regional development, if we want a balanced Slovenia, if we want to bring those regions and municipalities closer to road networks, then we need a third development axis as well as a better regional network. We have already talked a lot about it in the National Assembly and in the Transport Committee; we know that it is not in the best condition; we know that we always have too little money for current maintenance and reconstruction, and there is a little more money in these budgets. And also those regional networks that are in poor shape are extremely important for those we use before we enter the highway in Slovenia. Thus, I hope that in the future, the ministry and the government will also be able to provide more money, that we will also make this network better and faster to restore that part of the Slovenians and Slovenes will be able to have better connections and quicker connections to Ljubljana than before, when Comrade Sok spoke when it takes two hours to get into this capital, some less, but some of us need much more for the regional network than for the highway network, because more time is needed to get to the motorway cross. But I hope this too - we have talked about this a lot, and today there was also a debate on tolls in Slovenia, this is certainly an unfair story, unfair because some pay for it and some don't pay for it. I hope that this complex and challenging project will be realized as soon as possible, that we will all pay as much as we use the highway network in Slovenia and also the toll, not that some do not pay it, but some have to pay it. I do not think that this is fair, and I believe that this difficult story will also be successfully completed and that it also gives additional resources to the Company for Motorways in order to make it easier and faster to pay off the leased loans for the construction of the highway cross in Slovenia. Above all, I would like to see the successful work done by the Highway Association to bring this story to the fore, to make as few difficulties as possible in selecting the operators, to minimise the audit procedures and to make the implementation 100% in the end; as I think today, I also agree in supporting the Annual Plan, which gives you and the Ministry a lot of support, but also to all the operators on this highway cross, including the support of the National Assembly. This ensures that we are all for the early completion of the motorway cross and for the early entry into the third development axis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with a team! Even though I am in opposition, it is difficult to add anything else, as Christians have already said before me, and I would be able to sign the debate without a problem, and my debate will go in this direction in particular. The speakers before me have already said all the substance and also the representative of our party, Mr Pavliha, who, on behalf of the Group of Members, said that we, the Social Democrats, support this annual plan and I will personally support it. I will support it because it is one document for which it is difficult to oppose, especially because you drive and communicate on these Slovenian roads every day. What the highway means for everyday life, I know well, and I hope that our citizens and citizens also know. Where those areas in Slovenia have a highway cross built - we know what this means for economic growth, we know what it means for craft zones; in those parts of Slovenia they grow like mushrooms in the rain, new jobs are opened, social jobs are less and life is more beautiful and interesting in general. But we also know the area from which I come, and most from this Parliament, where these regional links are not as they all wish together. But in life you know you have to make a plan and if the plan is to build a highway cross first, then I absolutely agree with it. Of course, we must not forget this black fox in Slovenia or, I will say, these corks that are happening. People face these problems every day, and their communication is difficult. In addition, we know that the highway cross is not built in those areas that are already so low in economic growth and then the problems accumulate. I hope that by building this highway cross, completing it, then the funds will be able to be allocated elsewhere. That is why I call on the Government, especially the Government and, consequently, the Ministry, to continue at this pace, I speak mainly for Minister Bozič, and to connect these other places, because we know that roads connect. I'm gonna stop myself, just like Christian stopped in front of me, on this third development axis. This is of exceptional importance for that part of Slovenia. I hope that when this third development axis is being built, or plans not to overcome some political ambition, the arguments and expertise will really prevail. That is why I will say, I appeal to the Ministry that this is really going not from a political point of view, but mainly from a professional point of view and that this third development axis is being accelerated. We know it's already complicated, given what I'm going to say, to the very wishes where this third development axis would be, and also to all the legislation accompanying it. In order not only to boast, because I am in the opposition, I must say that I have doubts about the financing of this highway, but I am aware that without money these roads will not be built or this highway cross cannot be built. Now, whether the credit is real or credit is not real, whether the budget transfer is real or not - I wouldn't go into it, for that are macroeconomicists who have probably calculated something. But if you take credit in your life, you have to pay it back. The consequences will not be felt by this government, the consequences will be felt by the next governments and the next generation. However, this should be noted. One of the, I will say, financing these roads is certainly a regulated toll system and I think that this is the main thing the Ministry must do at this time, that we will have a regulated toll system, that road concessions will be awarded and that we will repay all the strong credits we have to rent. Finally, let me say, as the predecessors have said, that it is necessary to build money, but it is also necessary that construction be built in such a way that it will be good that it will not be necessary in a year's time to repair these roads again and that we will not make some plugs again, some stalls just when the least is necessary. I want you or Slovenia to get to the end of this highway as soon as possible. But I wouldn't say it's a historic day, and that's what this government did. For these roads, these highways are taken care of by all governments so far, and I hope that now will be the time when we build these roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! I should say that this annual development programme and the re-establishment of motorways for this year will be supported. But I have to say that as soon as he came to the hearing, I looked into what was going on with the cross in Dolenjska. This is a long and famous story, and I was glad that last year the government put this highway into space after so many years and that even in this year there are items that mention the construction or completion of the highway cross past the New City, which will be handed over to the administration of the second year, because this most painful last part is past Trebnje, which is almost 15 kilometers long. I hope it goes at such a pace. And with this purpose, I will support today so that it really starts to build this year. But I listened carefully to your presentation, Mr. Minister, and you probably ran out of time at the turn of Dolenjska. I hope it wasn't deliberately shortened. So that we can finally get this part of the highway that we need. For this reason, I support this programme for the development and renewal of motorways. I will repeat for Mrs Possončeva: the second year when this will actually be done - no government has done as much for Dolenjska as when it will truly be committed to use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! Honourable President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In view of everything so far, I have nothing to add. I express some joy that, for the most part, in the National Assembly, we will support this annual development plan and the restoration of the highway. Given some concerns as to whether it is appropriate for this annual plan to be adopted in the National Assembly or not, I would add only that I am satisfied that it is accepted that I can add something to what is not just a highway, because it is one of the possibilities to say something about the rest of the programme. I would like to express what some of my predecessors are, I think, the last two have said; despite the fact that this highway cross in Slovenia will be built or when all the other highways in Slovenia will be built, there will still be, despite the smallness of our country, certain areas that will be far from the highway there 40, 50 kilometers, which is certainly not small. We are talking about state roads, about major roads, as we have heard many times today that we must also take care of these roads, or these roads are urgently needed for renewal and maintenance. Sometimes it bothers me a little when all we talk about is renewal and maintenance. Surely these are not just renovations and maintenance. In the future, some main or main road in Slovenia will also need to be built for these areas on a new one, which was not heard. You know, given this: if we are talking about coherent regional development on the one hand or we are talking about the economic development of Slovenia, then we certainly should not forget about these areas in the future from the point of view of appropriate road links. I often stress in this National Assembly the area near Sotla and Kozjanski. My predecessors mentioned the third development axis, which is important for Koroška, Dolenjska or North-South. In the meantime, certain areas remain, which will certainly also be linked to this fast road, if I can so call it, where there will certainly be more to be done on the main road. Much more will have to be done to eliminate the level crossings in Slovenia with regard to these roads, because if only level crossings were to be eliminated, this would already mean a lot, and certainly then a time faster connection to motorways. I expect, as we have somehow been assured by the Ministry or by the National Assembly, that in the future we will also say more about this project; about this project, which is worth, as it has already been heard today, really about 800 billion former Slovenian tolars, or about three and a half billion euros. This is actually a national programme, which in the future, all of us sitting here in the National Assembly, commits us to say something more about this in the future, that we will also start to implement one strategy for the rescue of state roads, because we know that we are also certain documents - or predecessors - that we will do more on this segment in the future. As I said, I will support the annual development plan and the re-establishment of the highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Ferry Horvat has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam President, distinguished Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues. I, too, will support the annual plan by expressing my regret at this outset that we have not discussed this plan before, at the beginning of the year, if not by the end of last year. Given the importance of this act for the implementation of the national programme for the construction of motorways, given the financial dimension of the programme and, in view of the urgency already stated, the integration of the motorway part of Slovenia into the European network and the urgent opening of less developed areas, which was in fact one of the main objectives of the adoption of a specific law on the financing of motorways and national programmes, it would be normal for such a programme to be dealt with earlier, not only after more than 1/3 years have actually passed. But to be precise, this is not a criticism of the department. I know that Dars and the Ministry of Transport had prepared a proposal for a programme at the beginning of the year, because the Minister for Transport of Us, the Pomurian Members, when the Government was in Pomour in February, had already called for a programme to be prepared and invited us to support it. It is right that the plan is finally ambitious. I'm not going to go into the funding structure alone. That's what we're talking about. I also think that the structure of resources is optimal, but today we will not be able to change or find any other solution in this debate and in the decisions on the adoption of the plan. This calls for a special debate in the near future. It is essential and essential to speed up the implementation of the programme, as this need is greater every day in view of the continued increase in traffic. Because normally, when we discuss this, we see, in addition to the state aspect, the difficulties and problems, everyone in the area we come from, and not only legitimate, but we also owe these problems, which at the same time are an argument to accelerate the implementation of the programme, also to say. The latest data show that freight transport, transit and others in particular, as well as passenger traffic towards the west-east, or vice versa, is increasing. This is confirmed by the data, so to speak, from week to week, or from day to day. Let me point out that I wouldn't burden you too much with a lot of data, just some eloquent data. The number of trucks from 115.977 to 521.710 increased by 4 and a half in the first four months of this year, compared to the year 2004 before we entered the European Union. From 2005 to 2007, it is said that in two years, the daily number of trucks increased from 3,815 to 5,355, or 40%, which has also been the daily record so far. Obviously, and this data proves again, all the analysis of experts, both those competent and those considered to be experts, and all the forecasts in the past, even when the national programme was being created and some even opposed such a programme, since it will not be so much traffic and will not increase, these assessments have been more than a mistake. The fact is, real events have been underestimated. Since the accession of the Central and Eastern European countries to the European Union, we have seen that the number of vehicles is increasing with each increase or enlargement of the Union. And of course, the consequences of opening Eastern Europe and the region further east have been neglected. It is realistic to expect a further increase in transit. I am sure it will be the first such increase, and it may even jumpily, after opening part of the highway on the Maribor-Lenart route, and then the problems on the ferry route or until it is built will be even bigger. It is therefore necessary to complete the construction of the entire ferry route from Maribor, Lenart to the Hungarian border as soon as possible. This raises the question of the deadlines set out in the plan. In fact, for some sections the deadlines are set no later than December 2008. Thus, this gives hope, as well as some predictions, that if conditions continue to be normal and favourable, this deadline can be reduced. While for some sections, and in fact where it is most critical, through urban settlements such as Radgona, through tourist sites such as Radenci and some other places, the December deadline is foreseen - says later. This would cause further problems, so I appeal to the Government and to the Ministry of Transport, with which we are very well co-operated to do everything possible to reduce the actual deadline. So the Committee's proposal is to keep up with the construction of motorways in the pomurski work - this committee consists of, as you know, colleagues and colleagues, some mayors, some Members and Members of the civil society, and I must say that we are working well with the ministry and Darsa - to shorten this deadline in August next year. The work is now going very well, according to the opinion of this Committee as well as others. Happily, so did the warm winter. If this happens, it will also be the most beautiful gift for Pomurci for the holiday of joining Prekmurje Slovenije in the month of August. This will not only be an important gain for the region, but I am sure that this must be, too, the interest of the state of Slovenia, that the transport island will not remain, that there will be no more casualties that continue on the overloaded highway, that there will be no greater costs for short-term measures on the state road and even greater environmental degradation. At the same time, let me finally stop by the toll system, although some colleagues have already talked about it. Personally, I think we're being unduly late here. And also in the plan, it seems to me that the volume of funds is too small and also too long and it would be necessary to do everything possible to speed up these activities and to get to the electronic toll system as soon as possible. This is mainly due to three reasons. The first is to collect as much toll as possible, not as today, when it is estimated that less than two thirds of the toll is collected. Secondly, this is necessary because of the equality of all, because we pay the more distant ones in full or in most parts of the toll, while in a privileged situation the highway from Ljubljana and the suburban settlements are the beneficiaries. Thirdly, this is also necessary in order to harmonise tolling systems with the European Union countries, in particular its neighbours. As I am aware, the Austrians are leaving the vineyards they have, and slowly or at least experimentally, and actually are already introducing electronic tolling - first for trucks and also intend to move relatively quickly to other vehicles. The same applies to Hungary. Finally, increasing traffic in this direction towards the Hungarian border requires not only reflection, but also timely preparations for the necessary expansion of this motorway, as I am sure that traffic will continue to grow. In fact, now, as is known, two belts are being built in large part and it will be necessary to extend the road to the third lane in due course. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister with colleagues and colleagues! I am aware of the importance of the construction and development of motorways, especially the importance of development and road safety, and I will therefore be happy to support this programme. However, as the colleague has already mentioned, with the highway cross there was a great cross, problems in the construction of motorways originate from history and are somehow being passed on today. If we look back, we can see that the first shy miles of highways were built in the former country. The result of the first kilometers in Slovenia was the highway affair that took Staneta Kavčič away, and later, perhaps as an epilogue of this affair, because the highway was also built in segments, when each republic carried out its own leg, it was soon necessary for the Macedonian leg to be bandaged due to some sort of work. However, these initial problems have somehow only led to the near end of the highway cross in Slovenia. I would like to draw attention to unfinished sections, since any unfinished section is a traffic barrier. We could imagine at home working in the garden when we have a 10 millimeter tube and in the middle of about 5 millimeters we turn on a 30 millimeter pipe and another 10 millimeter pipe, and then there'll be as much water as 10 millimeter pipe. So that part of the wider tube doesn't work much and it doesn't help much; even more, it's where the vortices come in and it's where the vortices come in, and it's also been in traffic. Right at the end of the highway were the most dangerous points. The first kilometers along Arja village, the first kilometers around Vrbe were black spots and fortunately these sections are now linked to the disappearance of these black dots. Perhaps we have inherited from the past the expensive construction already mentioned today, which can already begin with complicated land purchases, and right here the local communities have caused quite a number of difficulties to certain sections. In my mind, of course, I have a section around Radovljica and around Trebnje. However, these sections will now be resolved in due course and will be given an adequate quality highway. The need for a third lane has already been mentioned, which will certainly show itself in the near future. Transport by including new members in the European Union and, in particular, by redirecting economic flows, such as Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic are the new centres of the automotive industry that are luckily using our port of Koper, and in the opposite direction Korean cars are coming, will additionally burden the existing road, so it will certainly be necessary to start with at least the first activities for the preparation of the third band in the near future. In this proposed programme, I support the fact that it has a mussel leg, because the need for this leg is far greater, as traffic has increased most in this part with regard to the accession of the new countries to the European Union. I also support the programme for the construction of connecting roads, for which it is planned to be a centre or a movement of development, and these are so-called development axes. We know the problem of the third development axis and the fourth development axis. As I personally care more about the fourth development axis going through our places, I would like to welcome the great consensus of all those interested in the area, either whether it was mayors or Members from places that lie at the fourth development axis. This unity has already been demonstrated in previous activities, I am thinking mainly of the 'rural statement' where we laid the foundations for the fourth development axis and are already in place. I am pleased that the plan is also the most critical or expensive stage, this is the transition from the Polish Valley to Cerkno, that this is already in the budget and funds are already preparing for this, and I hope that the best technological solution will be found. My reference to all those who speak of the third development axis would be to look for some unity, some consensus, where this third development axis will take place, and then start with actions or activities that will lead to the realization of the third development axis. As we say, I am aware of the importance of building motorways and will gladly support the development plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings again to all present! Given the real limited possibilities of today's debate, the question of sensefulness is whether we are at all warmed up to a real debate on this issue, which we certainly deserve. I have raised some questions at the time of the presentation of our Group's position, and allow me to point out again. Certainly, all or the majority of us are satisfied with the size of the annual highway construction programme for this year, both by scale and by value. Of course, this late adoption of the month of May, although it must be fair to say that we have already adopted such annual programmes even in July, is giving out some sort of pessimism, whether this annual programme is even real and will be possible to implement it in accordance with the prescribed procedures, or even in time, or may run these procedures at some parallel stage without the consent of the National Assembly. It is not my intention to criticise at all costs the responsible actors for the implementation of the national programme for the construction of motorways, but I wonder what the mood would be today in the National Assembly if the annual programme were not so rich on a financial scale and also on a physical scale. Perhaps we would have felt more at that time this disagreement or the illogicality of the procedure, to adopt the annual programme after we have agreed to the debt - let me say that I do not object to the obligation - when we have agreed to the guarantee - and to stress that I do not object to the guarantee. It would be reasonable or logical for all these three documents to be adopted at the same time; both, the debt and guarantee decisions and today's annual programme for this year. I think, although everyone does not agree with this, I know that, given the structure of the resources for implementation, I say that it is the majority of the public funding, because it is also necessary to treat credits or guarantees as long as these guarantees are, of course, alive or can be applied, that we should respect one provision of the Public Finance Act, which requires that within 30 days of the adoption of the State budget, such or other budgetary consumers should adopt their annual financial plans, and if we want to recognise that Dars is a direct or direct budgetary consumer. The second set, which I would like to point out again, today, and also earlier on the working body, in some easy way, we accept the fact that this year, as well as last year's annual programme, substantially deviates from the projection that was prescribed by the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways, which we adopted in 2004, if I am not mistaken. If I recall correctly, this act contains one criterion that allows for a 10% derogation. We are facing today with 25 percent or more deviations, thank God, upwards into well-accelerated construction. However, the fact is that if we are formalistic about the derogation, and I understand this in such a way that it would be necessary to amend in advance both the two acts, the resolution on the national programme or the short national programme, and given the structure of the resources, also the law on earmarked resources for the implementation of this programme. I do not wish to criticize, at all costs, the Government's decision to resolve the public finances problem, to address the public finances issue of the possible deficit and to solve anything else through Dars. It's one of the possibilities, and there's nothing to see here. In this way, the government has reduced its public financial deficit, Darsa's debt status - in fact, it has managed to collect some other status with regard to monitoring, as logical as it is, it is indeed a state debt, no one can deny it, but if Europe has agreed to it, on these exceptions, I personally do not oppose it. The fact is that this is a profound substantive change that can have such or other consequences in the future, both for the implementation of the unrealised part of the programme - we are at the beginning of the second period where there is only a third period of implementation and the provision of the necessary resources - as well as for the health of public finances in the future, unless all the scenarios envisaged here are implemented. That is why I am so much more disturbed by the fact that in the structure the projected funding is being reduced this year for the introduction of electronic tolling. It has already been said and widely known today that we capture barely 2/3 of payers or users, which is unacceptable. I am well aware of the debates over the past years, when actors have addressed us and convinced us when we have moved from a closed toll system to the current one and it would be good to repeat the arguments and see if those arguments have survived. I'm afraid not. Any delay in the introduction of a more efficient toll system is, of course, a threat to the continued implementation of the national highway construction programme, which I think is necessary and will also need to be further accelerated so as not to be the same as the second year. I'm afraid it's just a case that it's not because of the elections - or also - that the second year will be dedicated over 80 kilometers, just like in 2004 it was over 70 kilometers and this year we fall to the bad 20 kilometers. The average of 14 years - 27 kilometers per year was devoted. That's statistical data, that's not actual data. It will also be necessary to think in the perspective, not only will it end with a "pourka", it will not be possible to end only east-west and north-south, there is probably something else in Slovenia, especially if we want to pursue the goals both strategic and structural, as recorded in the resolution on the national programme, and to point out only one indicator. Where they are built and are part of the highway, the industrial trade zones are full, the costs or prices of real estate have skyrocketed, and this is a direct impact on economic development and is significantly more effective than that other resolution, which foresees so many and so many projects that are expected to accelerate, and mostly on the account of private capital or this partnership, which we think will solve all the problems that we otherwise could not solve. Of course, in this national, annual programme - I apologize - despite the abundance of data - and thank you for them - it does not write everything and we do not get all the answers. I would like, more than this programme - and I am in favour of the fact that the National Assembly is considering it and not only considers it to be a key decision on it, although I believe it is very difficult and that this situation is more a mere set of reckless cases than it is intended to bring the National Assembly into a situation that cannot be amended in good and not bad, if I am critical, of this document. However, this act does not state the state of the acts or from the location plans, placements in space, location plans and the like, which are mandatory pre-preparation works, if I say so, for realisation. We don't get that answer. We only get one line of information that the estimated costs for all the location plans, I will simplify, both for the road sections that will arrive are planned for the second period, this is 2007-2013, and for those who arrive in the third period. This is kind of a good word, especially if we know some of the problems that should have been solved in terms of investments by 2002 and because of this problem were not placement in the space or adoption of the site plans, we have written in the resolution explicitly that the acts will be adopted in 2004. Today 2007 is and for some, the relevant acts are still not adopted and there are no answers to why these acts are not available. And then we also have such a case in this year's annual programme where it writes conditionally the item or project or subsection will be realized if a document is adopted in due time - I will not list these projects due to time constraints. These are the things that are the weakness of this, otherwise ambitious, to the extent appropriate, and I do not know what else is in a positive sense, but an annual programme that is important for continuation, because this year’s second year will not end the construction of motorways, but will have to be ensured further and more evenly - given the average annual built-in sections. Not to be too long and not to repeat myself, I will eventually connect with what I mentioned earlier and with one of the questions that we have raised in our parliamentary group. We would like to see clearly written criteria by which individual sections were included in the annual programme. These, unfortunately, are not. From long-standing practice, from bad practice, from past years, I fear that many, not all, sections or a variety of programming points are ranked more politically than some objective criteria. And if I did not have that feeling, I would like to explain this to future proponents specifically in terms of the objectives set. With regard to the additional conclusions adopted by the Committee or the working body, please allow a few more words, because in some ways this is particularly my concern, regardless of the other problem in Slovenia in this area. To those who do not know, it is necessary to say that the rapid road, Ormož, was the only non-road in the national programme in 1996; that, with the rebalancing of the national programme, a timetable was adopted and that the road should be built in 2004 on the basis of an approach of four stages or four subsections; that, for the subsection to which the first decision relates, a call was made in 2000, the legal choice of the contractor of 2001 and, as far as I know, the signed contract - at that time we adopted the annual programme precisely because of this road, inter alia, only July, in this national assembly, although the government had taken it substantially earlier and lost the section from Gregorčič to Šubič. Therefore, it is illogical, since the contract is signed, the building permit issued - the first decision is not required at all or both together in the sense that it is written. What else is particularly wrong with the first decision? It's not about the section of the Markovci, it's about the section of the Videm-Markowci. Those who have worked on this and who know it know that after unnecessary 2004 there has been a play by the current national programme and the connecting road has become part of the originally envisaged first stage of Hajdin-Ptuj. Today Hajdina-Ptuj physically does not exist - this stage because you have built the bad 700 meters of the fast road Hajdina-Ptuj "toboge" or Hajdina-Videm as in the armor written in the national program. We have noted this and we need to correct the relevant decision that it is the relation of Videm-Markowci, who is not the only one placed properly in the space, of course in respect of the conditions arising from Nature 2000, which I strongly recommend to the authors or proponents of this Decision that they release, because this can mean what some want the road to go not past Lake Ptuj or past Ptuj, but to take off after the now built connecting road across the Ptuj Bridge, which is another quality. Therefore, I strongly recommend that this part of the decision be taken because someone might abuse it, delete it or not accept it in that form. The second conclusion of the supplementary one proposed by the parent working body is illogical in such a text as it says. For the section Gorišnica-Omoz everything is prepared, construction permit, contract, land, and could start building. All that would make sense if it was already some kind of pressure for actors to include it in the 2008 annual programme. As far as Markovci section - Gorišnica is concerned, this is another in this sense, but the situation is similar, the land is not purchased and the building permit is not issued, so such a formulation of the decision for both sections is not taken into account and is inappropriate. I therefore call on the proposers to amend the texts in good faith, because otherwise there may be an abuse of the conclusions of the National Assembly, which could take an inappropriate decision due to non-information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Respectable. In the debate alone, I will not operate on numbers that have already been sufficiently presented in the presentations themselves, but I would focus in particular on the debate so far, which has also shown some differences regarding this programme that we are considering today. At the principal level, we all support the construction of motorways, especially if there is at least one section in the local environment, where we come from, when we get to specific issues, and there have been significant differences or some reservations between us. Most of the reservations were also made by the Transport Committee concerning the way in which the financing is financed and as regards the derogation from the resolution of the national programme for the construction of motorways. The undeniable fact is that Slovenia needs motorways, of course it also needs other transport infrastructure - fast roads or state roads and railway infrastructure. We all face the problems of these people living in areas where highways are not built. It is because of this that reduced mobility, that quality of life is significantly lower in areas where there are no adequate road links, that the possibilities for employment, namely for a better quality of life, are significantly lower, that it is a major pollution of the environment, for noise, for other emissions of harmful substances. Not to mention the traffic accidents that are taking place on these roads, the material damage and unfortunately also the many victims, the many injuries that are much worse on roads than on motorways. Of course, this cannot be evaluated by any number, but these things have invaluable value, for which there are no specific criteria. However, if we look at the economic position, where there are no proper transport links, in a particular case when we are talking about motorways where there is no highway, the economy suffers some damage. It is unfortunate that it cannot exploit certain business and development options because certain investors who would otherwise be willing to invest in a particular area are slowly evading these areas. That is why we can talk about many lost opportunities in those areas where they are already less developed, where they are lagging behind some developed areas. There is also much talk about V. and X. corridor, an extremely good geostrategic position of Slovenia, but this position is only an opportunity. The opportunity is no guarantee, it is not a necessity for us to take advantage of Slovenians, Slovenes or Slovenian countries, if we do not know these opportunities. And one of these opportunities is certainly the construction of highways. If we are discussing the need to build motorways, of course, I cannot pass over the fact that we have entered the European Union as far as traffic is concerned, we are not prepared. This is reflected on many roads across Slovenia, mentioned several times already in Pomurje and where colleague Horvat made it clear that freight traffic has increased more than four times. It is the X. corridor, perhaps specifically for the road between Maribor and beyond Ptuj towards Gruškov, where the impossible situation is. This is a problem of tolling, which is becoming a very large obstacle due to increased traffic, and it is a fact that some of the motorway sections already built are now practically overloaded or already fully exploited, particularly with regard to very high freight traffic. And it is logical that the Government, which must monitor the transport situation responsibly, adopts or proposes one very ambitious plan, which, both at the pace of dynamics and at the level of resources, actually exceeds all of the present and, of course, goes beyond the resolution. Personally, I think that other options, such as going into such ambitious plans, are simply not, are our destiny and we will certainly have to deal with this problem. Of course, the problem is that in some areas, in some sections, construction is envisaged to be larger, more intensive than in a traffic resolution or a resolution on the construction of motorways. However, I cannot imagine how to explain to people living in these areas living under these overloaded road sections that, for some bureaucratic, formal reasons, we should simply slow down construction on these sections, such as Slivnica-Drazenci-Gruškovje, or perhaps the already repeatedly mentioned Pomurje highway. The second thing that has been mentioned more than problematicly is funding. The fact is that the budget for such a dynamic construction of motorways will simply not bear. At the same time, we must not forget that there is also an up-to-date and construction of state roads, but a very large project for the construction and modernisation of railway infrastructure. If anyone imagines that all these terrible big projects will be financed directly from the budget, then, of course, in my opinion, we can only do this by stretching out for 20, 30 years, which is simply unacceptable for Slovenia, for development. However, I did not hear any other proposal in the debate and how we could finance the construction of these motorways. That is why I think, and given that this is a long-term investment, investments that will be used for more than ten years, which will also be used by the next generation, not just one, but then it is entirely logical that credit is also used to invest or finance these investments. I remember, a while ago, listening carefully to the Director of the European Central Bank in Brussels, who said that self-indebtedness is not as problematic as it is. It's problematic what we're in charge of, the purpose of the debt. If we are in charge of some casual spending, and if we are covering some of the losses of the past, it is certainly controversial. However, if we invest in developing and we have a regular, permanent reliable source of payment for these liabilities - and in this case this is a toll - then I do not think such debt should be disputed. As such, the program is good, realistic, feasible and necessary. It takes into account the needs of all Slovenia. I also personally welcome the fact that the programme envisages the construction of some motorway sections in areas that have so far been somewhat neglected, in my opinion. It's about Styria, it's about Pomurje. The other thing that gives me some optimism is that, in addition to these construction, operating procedures, there are also some other procedures, such as placement in space, land acquisition, acquisition of documentation, etc. In addition, given that the amendment of the law on the revision of public procurement procedures, which has so far been one of the biggest reservations or obstacles to the award of these contracts, is also practical before this meeting, I think that we can, as far as construction is concerned, be optimistic even in the future, so I support such a programme in terms of content and scope. Before I finish, however, I personally believe that building motorways alone will not solve any problems on these motorways or traffic problems in Slovenia. I would point out the problem of tolling, given that by the end of 2008, the introduction of the freeway toll system will be in place, the current situation indicates that at least some temporary interim measures will also be necessary during the interim period. Secondly, given the volume of traffic in the previously built sections, it will also be necessary to adapt the maintenance of these sections to minimise traffic. Thirdly, given the significantly increased volume of freight transport, the problem of freight transport will also need to be addressed as soon as possible: either by specific measures on motorways or by shifting to the rail network. Otherwise, as I say, I will support the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Cyril Testen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Mr President, Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! I will support the annual highway construction programme, but I would still ask some questions if they can be answered. First of all, I'm interested in the section of the fast road Razdrto-Vipava. This section has had a relatively unfortunate accident; its construction has been delayed into the future several times; the current programme foresees that this section should be transferred to transport in September next year. I hope it will be so, especially because, as I know it, most of the work in this section has already been done. Well, I'd still like to ask because there are some new problems, if there's still any chance of any delay in this section. I particularly ask because the production of tunnels has been obtained by an Italian company, which, as I hear from the local community, has problems with concrete, difficulties in purchasing concrete or difficulties in obtaining a building permit for concrete. The aim or desire of the local community is to complete this road as soon as possible and to link it properly with Novo Gorica and Ljubljana, because this section is the largest bottleneck on the entire route in connection with Italy. The second thing that interests me, although it is not directly related to the annual highway construction programme, is the construction or investment in "Calitics". In the National Assembly, a law was passed in connection with an earthquake recovery, which predicted at the annual level a considerable amount of funds to invest in road links with the Supreme Court. Unfortunately, we note that relatively little investment is being invested in this road connection in all these years. I would like to remind you that, say, from Tolmin, we are not talking about the Upper Lawn, when Kobarid and Bovec are still significantly further away from Tolmin to Ljubljana 100 kilometers and if they are perfectly normal traffic conditions, we spend 2 hours of our time for these 100 kilometers. I think that says it all. There is a very problematic section of this road from Želen to Trebuša, which is a 15 km section where you have to be if you meet a bus or a truck with a trailer, ready to stop, otherwise it comes mandatory to the carambola. I hope that these are such strong arguments, especially because traffic on these sections as well as everywhere in Slovenia is expected to approach the construction or reconstruction of these sections as soon as possible, especially because all of these sections will later be the components of the so-called fourth development axis. I think it's urgent and we need to do it as soon as possible. There was also a lot of talk about funding. As far as funding is concerned, when we adopted the budget and the Commission for Budgetary Control and the Committee on Transport, we talked a lot about the sustainability of finance in the area of highway construction. I am sure - and we were all then, and the Ministry of Finance and other experts from different fields, convinced us that this mode of funding was sustainable and that highways would be covered by their own revenues. In this regard, I am particularly interested in this; I have not recently observed the construction of toll stations. I want to know what percentage or what kind of withdrawal we have at this point, given the traffic that's on the highways, because I think it's very important. This is related to this electronic tolling, if this programme is really to be implemented in 2008, then it is necessary to be very rational at toll stations, otherwise I think it is also necessary to think about how we will collect tolls on these sections and also on which we are now driving, on these sections that will be newly placed on the market. I'd like to ask if there's any answer to that. I'm interested in another thing. There was a lot of talk when we talked about financing the construction of motorways, about public-private partnership. This has nothing to do with the annual program. I think it is important to think, in particular, about building those sections that are economically interesting and that we have not yet done. I'd ask nicely if I could get some answers to these questions. But I'll back up the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Drofenik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues! It is true that in the discussion on the implementation of the highway programme, more or less, we are discussing somehow the problem of roads mainly where we come from. I too will look at myself from this point of view, mainly because of this. At the outset, I will also say that I am very happy that the highway project is developing as it is developing or that it would probably be very good for all of us if it were to move even faster. Even with the funding itself, we somehow agree to build with our resources, but now it is a question of rationality, a question of the price of this, and not least of the speed. Of course, as it is now, the matter is appropriate in every way. In particular, I would point out that I am from an area where I do not actually have a very long distance to three highway connections, this is in Dramalja, these are Brežice and this is Slovenska Bistrica. But despite the fact that it's 30, 32, 24 kilometers to transport this section, you need between 40 and 50 minutes. This should not last that long in some normal regional context. And that's the problem that we should point out that when we talk about the third axis, the fourth axis, and I don't know which axis we should also think about -- sometimes we use the term "blind intestine". This should be done in a way, because they do not coincide with the axes, if I say so, with modernisation, not only with repairs, but with maintenance, but literally with stronger reconstructions, cut into these regional connections, so that the places from which much time is lost today to get to the highway and can only be used from there for this benefit to come quickly. In particular, I would say that in the areas where some of us live, we can talk about equitable regional development, but without updated roads of this regional development. In these parts, we can only expect the assistance we receive, but the strength is not development, development is something else, and some conditions such as infrastructure and this must also be provided for development. And another thing, we talk a lot about the victims on our roads, about the dead, about the injured. I do not think that the next step of the reduction will be achieved if we do not resort rigorously to modernisation of the regional road network. I don't think there's a major reason why we can't get down from here with the number of victims. Of course, a little critical discussion does not mean that I do not support - I support the annual road map. Above all, I would like to be as quick as possible, as soon as possible, because I am aware that two equally difficult projects - motorways, on the one hand possible, and on the other hand the updating of regional roads, not to mention the modernisation of Slovenian railways - cannot, in fact, be achieved by this country. And in spite of everything, I'd even be willing to say that this project is going even faster than it's going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u48	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, I have presented the fundamental findings and concerns and doubts about the annual programme already in the presentation of the position of the Member Club, some of my thoughts on my aspect of the consideration of such a document that we have before us today. So when I listen, and this debate also strengthens me in this belief, it seems to me that the need to deal with the annual highway development programme has survived at all. Well, we're in a situation where there's nothing we can do about it anyway. We can't affect individual procedures, either location, or sections and so on. Now we're just actually exchanging opinions and we can't even exchange them in this way so that we can be interlocutors with which to talk more about other things than the construction of motorways as well. I have to say, I support the national programme myself. I agree that it runs within the limits of the capable. I agree and also acknowledge and agree to the conclusion that Dars and the Ministry of Transport, in fact, in the area of the construction of highways of the revolution, are no longer able to do so; that they have been implementing this programme satisfactorily for almost all of the years and that it has become some kind of routine and that, in fact, there are no major fluctuations in the realization, unless the weather has changed fatally. This is actually the last period on the part of the operators or planners, so there is really no particular emphasis on the negative implementation of these programmes, and I therefore believe that this year will not be the same. I think this program is going to run normally, even personally, I don't have any proof, some projects are already running, and we're taking the "post Festum" program -- but this is another story, it's not irrelevant at this point. The question is when we consider such an annual programme, what should we actually do. Personally, I think we should work in a different way to address all the complex issues that arise with infrastructure in Slovenia. If you want to lead the transport policy resolution again because of me, even though it is not long since we discussed it. And at such meetings, at such talks, not only a transport minister should sit at such hearings. I think that the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Development, should sit down and the Minister of Environment and Space, because this infrastructure - whether it is highway or rail or some other - is so interdisciplinary that we should - and only then can we talk qualitatively about what to do about the development of transport in Slovenia. Why am I saying this? So today's discussion only points to the part of the implementation of this programme, which is still purely operational, and it is not even the minister's fault if any other stories are being issued, some other problems that we should solve, say, Minister Bajuk, who should sit between us and explain together how he thinks about doing this in perspective, where I think Dars or the Republic of Slovenia will come when we find that financial credits will no longer be able to cover themselves, and what results or what analysis are being made in this area. Here Mr Turk should probably sit between us and determine whether the roads actually mean that aspect of his view of his area, that is, the area of development, or whether they mean such multiplier effects that this development will be fast enough, whether these steps are too fast or not. Mr Podobnik should be sitting among us, who should listen to the debate on how the local plans do not run fast enough, how some procedures are being blocked, which could be initiated and some are actually being completed, although I know that he is now in the process of a law on the revision of public procurement procedures - at least one step that is possibly in the way of better resolution of this situation. So, I want to say that the consideration of the annual plan is already almost meaningless and almost unnecessary and that it would probably be sufficient to inform the Transport Committee of its position there, to adopt, in particular, the conclusions and commitments to individual ministers and ministries that should be involved in this story. That is why I think that today's debate will be as good as it will be today, because in fact you have no interlocutors who I would like to tell them more than just interlocutors from the Transport Ministry. I am also aware of these problems of rapid growth in motorway traffic. So this carisation is actually so fast that probably even the best planner, the best analyst could not predict this violent, sunny growth in traffic, especially freight traffic. We all see and feel how and what is going on on some roads that we thought were a final solution three years ago, and today we probably need to think about how slowly we will have to build the third belt - I am speaking specifically about the "student". Thank God, at this point I am not among those Members who would, of course, protect their local interests, but I think it is probably objective and realistic to expect that some of the already built facilities will urgently need updates. And we are aware of this if this should be a debate, i.e. a full debate on what is happening to us in the transport field, but not just a debate on what we are going to do this year, because it has been so and so for almost half a year and we can't change anything and we can't turn anything upside down. That is why, if I conclude, there is no objection to the annual plan itself. However, I think that in the methodology, in the procedures, we should change something and deal with strategic topics, with the strategic area of transport development, there should be open all the questions that I spoke about earlier, and I think that, at that time, on the Committee on Transport, it will be possible to accept such an approval of the budget, such a confirmation of the plan that we are now working on in the debate at the plenary session, where, in fact, neither the Government seems to have enough ambition to explain with those ten minutes that we have at our disposal for answers and clarification of what we have all discussed. So, I support the annual plan. I propose, however, that we take a different systemic approach to addressing this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. It's bad luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Transport and the President of the administration of Darsa. I will, I think, lastly, try to sum up two areas: one is the construction of motorways and transport policies, and the other is electronic tolling in the free traffic as an ambition for introduction. In 2004, at the end of the previous mandate, the national programme for the construction of motorways and connecting roads was adopted in a new way, as the previous one was not expected to be completed in 2004. The national programme has been extended from its expected conclusion in 2004 to 2013. That was back in the time of the previous government. The current government does not follow the national programme in realisation, but not only with actual preparations, but in realisation even ahead of schedule. This is expected from a serious government in view of a number of decades of backlog in the construction and effective catch-up of countries in the neighbourhood with regard to the construction of motorways. And we can only be happy about that. The physical construction of motorways in Slovenia has been markedly accelerated, with real substantial increases in funding for the reconstruction of state roads. A commendable, truly commendable approach that finally enables real realization in line with the plans - regardless of the highway works, but also with regard to the roads. I am actively monitoring and expect the anticipated realization of the fast road between the Stryersk and Gorenje motorways with the Mengeš Oblast. Construction in Slovenia itself is actually following a concessional approach to the construction of motorways based on a real or guaranteed source, toll, only that in Slovenia it is based on a state concessionaire, which is a significant feature, with its characteristics, advantages and some weaknesses. The characteristic is the non-inclusion of private or bank or other capital resources, with which the public image would be more favourable because the State would not have to provide guarantees. Private capital would try to build with as little cost as possible, but also as quickly as possible, in order to recover its investments from the toll collected as quickly as possible. In this case, however, the State should take care of thorough monitoring of the quality of performance. The smaller budget resources that Slovenia needs for development are now replaced by higher loan guarantees, which are guaranteed in the already mentioned tolls for the use of motorways. Therefore, a comprehensive system of fair, benefits and damage to balanced electronic tolling is extremely important, not only the concept but also the time of introduction. Of course, it is only possible to support Darsa's annual plan to build highways based on such an ambitious approach. Nevertheless, it is necessary and urgent to draw attention to some serious issues and to the general support. Slovenia has a similar multi-year backlog in the modernisation of public passenger transport, a completely outdated railway infrastructure and inefficient railways and an inadequate cost-effective transport environment policy, which does not shift heavy goods from public and local roads to and from motorways and to railways, while personal transport is individualised and is spreading unbelievably. The value has become that each one has his own car, which is not hard to get in. The car is more urgent than the apartment. Such public passenger transport is true and even more economical. With regard to procedures, nature and a different understanding, it is necessary to have already produced and validated environmental impact assessments, which were the basis for the adoption of the site plans, produced in a new, so-called integrated way. This threatens, seriously threatens the implementation of the deadline and even puts into question the accepted location plans and thus only the investment design and only the investment. I believe that there is also a need for serious reflection on the long-standing practice of only the annual plans of Darsa and why they cannot be coordinated with the country's budget. This was discussed by many of my predecessors. This would make Darsa much more transparent. However, timely plans or even a two-year period would allow for greater predictability and reliability of funding and timely preparation of documentation, as well as the implementation of tendering procedures. In this way, we would have only once in stock not only building permits but also selected contractors. This can also be done by preparing public tenders so that this is not disputed. Now a little bit more about tolling or electronic tolling and accompanying process-based technical - information systems, which are also included in the implementation plan itself for this year and also in previous years. If there is a serious intention to establish electronic tolling in free circulation in 2008, in my opinion, any activity relating to permanent type toll stations is unfounded and, if necessary, they must be installed on connections and only temporarily and in accordance with the electronic tolling system. Only essential maintenance works for safety and operationality are acceptable. There are a number of such items in the plan, such as: at the section Cogetinci - Vučja vas, Beltinci - Lendava, a toll station is also envisaged at Gorenjska pri Radovljica, with various restorations of motorway bases and also toll stations. I think that only what is really necessary is justified, given that electronic tolling is to be introduced in 2008. With regard to the action plan and toll plans in 2008, however, any upgrades to the existing ABC toll system are entirely unfounded, even though this is foreseen in the Government's action plan. I think that the Darsa 2007 plan lacks a clear record of the introduction of free movement tolls. It is now said that in 2007, I quote: "Predicted continuation of activities already started at the introduction of the electronic tolling system in free circulation, in brackets, first for freight vehicles, the maximum mass permit above 3.5 tonnes". In the previous years, in 2005 and 2006, it was very simple: "Freeway travel in 2008". So, I would like to ask the Minister for a clear and unequivocal answer, what action plan will, in fact, be realized in view of this formulation in this year's plan, in the year or the end of 2008? Of course, the question arises why nothing concrete has been done in 2005 and 2006, or before, to realize Darsa’s plans for electronic tolling. I believe that the Ministry or Dars, or their respective designer, should, if not earlier in 2005, draw up a strategy, a system concept and an action plan for the implementation of the project on this basis, develop a project, functional and implementation specification and tender for the implementation. Mr Barovic mentioned in his presentation that the European Council had now endorsed the European Commission's recommendations on electronic tolling, which was expected to be introduced in 2011. Of course, these recommendations include not only what he stressed but the choice of two possible technologies. However, it is certainly the only promising technology and what needs to be followed, of course, by satellite vehicle location and then tolling, based on such monitoring of vehicle movements, for the entire state road network, both for motorways and for state and local roads. I propose that the functioning of the Ministry and Darsa in fulfilling the commitments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to introduce fair and economical electronic tolling in the free movement on Slovenian motorways, as promised in these acts. I think that we must be aware of this, I have not heard that today it would be mentioned that Slovenia will be the first in Europe to introduce tolling for all vehicles, perhaps because this still needs to be realized because, unfortunately, I believe in this at least personally less and more. With regard to electronic tolling, I recommend to the Ministry and also to Dars that these matters be dealt with in a more professional manner. Perhaps another reference to procedural and technical traffic monitoring systems. We suggest that traffic management centres are somehow centralised and that individual regional centres, those at the highest level, are realized in only one place in Slovenia, and that operational services are also located in other places. In this way it will also be possible to achieve adequate corrections. So much for now. I wish, Minister and Prime Minister Darsa, that this year's plan will be realized and that we may be adopting a plan for 2008 this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u51	Thank you, too. The next one has the word of his colleague, Josef Jerovšek. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! Every year, the debate on the annual road map has received considerable attention from Members. That is also the case this year and, in fact, I am not surprised that before that we have witnessed some very controversial and contradictory debates. In his performance, the LDS representative even announced the collapse and abolition of the state-owned motorway construction company, while marginalising that this debate is not necessary. I do not think that this will happen because of the enormous increase in traffic in Slovenia. Motorways are part of the most urgent reality in Slovenia. In my debate, however, I would focus mainly on something else. First of all, let me say that, of course, I will support the plan, as announced by all Members. Because we're actually witnessing some dynamics, accelerating the dynamics of highway construction. And I only hope that under the current government, this accelerated dynamic is due to a positive environment in all areas. At the same time, the Ministry and Darsa would warn themselves or ask themselves how they increased if they increased, the immunity of the Ministry and Dars from the interests of the construction lobby. These interests of the construction lobby are, of course, legitimate and we know that, due to the great amount of money and strong investment in this area, they are extremely strong and visible. At the same time, it is the policy's responsibility to find these interests an immune system against these interests. For the consequences of such pressures and such interests are very severe. I will cite one very serious consequence or what has happened in the past. When I became an MP 11 years ago, I wondered about the purpose of choosing a project through Trojans. I think the route is fine, but anything about this project today can say that it was badly designed. The road runs, I don't know, 50, 70 m above the current route, the tunnels themselves and speed limits from Ločica to Blagovica, to Lukovice. You don't get on this route any sooner than if you go down an old highway in Vransk, and you go back to Blagovico. You haven't lost anything now that there's no big traffic. And a highway like that isn't useful. It should have more effects. At that time, the builders, I am sure, were aware that President Drnovšek, who is from Izlak, would insist on this location. And they were blackmailing. And that's how it happened. And they built a construction site in which we invested a lot of money and materials, and a bad route and designers all together for five or six years, at the expense of being able to build a different road that would be lowered down, with fewer tunnels, less overpass. Today we would have a completed highway to Pink or a largely built third axle. That's where the building lobby came in. He was making an absolute profit. It was an enormous construction site. After the unnecessary "chafla" money, I am sure that after unnecessary and no one can convince me that it was not possible on this route at any different value, at a different level to take roads with significantly less tunnels and significantly less traffic. And now that there is a question and the need for a third lane, as this traffic increases enormously, we are aware of the extraordinary truth - whether it was necessary to work at this height when this third lane was needed sooner or later. We who drive from Styria are witnessing enormous crowds on this road. Otherwise, poor driver culture, but there will be strong restrictions here, and I therefore note that as catastrophic mistakes made by the previous government, the current government must not afford them, and must ask itself daily whether they will succumb or defend themselves. The undeniable fact is that the previous LDS, despite the fact that the Ministry was led by the People's Party, had a hand over the fact that nothing could have been done without deciding on the LDS headquarters on the lane. And the consequences of this are some poorly built projects, poorly implemented projects that have spent a lot of money and I think that one such route is also through the Rebrnice and Vipava Valley. There too was chosen for the interests of the road lobby a bad route. First of all, the interests of Slovenia, taxpayers and the fact that these construction of good highways and roads in Slovenia were not taken into account in the foreseeable period. Once again, I tell the Minister and the Ministry that it is very serious to look at the designer and the contractor when choosing solutions when projects are chosen. This thing that happened, too. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u53	Comrade Jerovšek, the time has passed for your task force. But to my word I call on the Member of the Holy Spirit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u54	Have a good day to all present in this hall! This annual development plan and the re-establishment of the highway, I will gladly support. Many times it has been said that he is very ambitious or that he is the most extensive one so far. I'm glad that's the way it is. However, I would be very happy if this plan were discussed here in the National Assembly ten years ago or at least five years ago. I say, then it would be the right time, now it's very, very late. From month to month, we find those who are on the road a lot, how this traffic is really increasing on our roads. Therefore, I think that the local thinking that has already been said today about freight traffic will have to be done in this area. Either reduce freight traffic along our roads, or what Mr Jerovšek recently said will really have to be added to the A1. But we know what all this means. Personally, I am very pleased that in this programme there is also the road Dravograd - Arja Vas, so named in this programme, when the talks on the preparation of project and technical documentation is also part of the third development axis. For on the road Arja vas - Velenje and beyond to Koroška things are unsustainable. We have a strong economy, a well-standing economy in the Shaleska Valley and in Koroška, but what if this economy is threatened because of a very, very bad road connection? However, I must say that I am pleased with the promise, whether the last promises made by the Minister, together with the Minister for Environment and Space of the like, that this project of building the road from Arje to Velenje do not move away, as was recently announced. As far as tolling is concerned, I advocate that this matter be settled in its entirety, especially by paying everyone and as much as the roads are used, not as we have now when one is driving for free and the other is paying for the use of roads. Unfortunately, travel must be, because the financial resources needed for construction are huge and if at least a part of these funds are provided and then also returns with tolls, that is certainly logical. I was going to say two words myself about the accompanying infrastructure on the highways. I also agree that petrol services are quite well and modernly arranged, but that the rest and catering activities at these points are neglected. Here I think they are necessary, because the activities themselves bring sufficient resources, to be arranged in a manner that is exemplary. I always say, if you want to know what kind of people live in the country or what kind of country it is, go to the bathroom and see what kind of people they are. I must say that it is with this that Slovenia gives a very, very bad picture. There's more to be done here. I would like this programme to be fully implemented. That certain things should be speeded up. A new law on spatial planning has already been mentioned today. I think that it is possible to prepare project and technical documentation and only to place things faster, although I say that it is more important than legislation that we are actually doing things quickly. I once said in this National Assembly, we can do the matter within a few months, but in a few days, if there are enough qualified people and enough interest to resolve the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u55	Thank you very much. To the word I invite the apostle Joseph Hroat. Here you go. A replica? My friend Friday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u56	I'm sorry about the little conundrum. I repeat to Mr Jerovšek, who is now not in the hall. In his typical manner - he knows everything, but he doesn't understand anything. So, the fact is, when I was talking about the need for and the usefulness of the debate and the validation of the annual programme, I wanted to say that, in fact, in this development in the field of motorway infrastructure, there is almost no need for discussion and validation of the annual plan, but that all the problems encountered in the implementation of the motorway programme should be discussed. I have illustrated this with the need to discuss sources of funding, so on these consequences, for which I do not actually have any analysis, what this means in the long run. At that time, I wanted to talk about the need to discuss environmental issues, location documentation and so on. It was, unfortunately, that Mr Jerovšek misunderstood and showed me some contradiction. That's not what this is about. It's just that I think this procedure is lost today. As far as his constant perceptions of the catastrophic mistakes of the previous government are concerned, I think it's already a twisted song. After all, the former government was the current minister, and at one time also Director Darsa, and he is likely to be better able to respond to why the decisions on construction in the Trojan work were made. Whether it was political decision-making or professional decision-making, and this professional decision from spatial planning to road planners, to those who provide for the ecological aspect of such construction. And Mr Jerovšek cannot avoid these flat-rate perceptions simply because he is politically or media-friendly, but perhaps some professions need to be stressed. As for the obvious, if I may say, of these catastrophic errors, I am sure that in a while we will be able to tell Mr Jerovšek that his government has made a catastrophic mistake when it went to buy armored 8 x 8, and I can now say that history or the future will give us the opportunity to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u57	Thank you very much. And the final interviewer, colleague Joseph Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. When I presented the position of the New Slovenia Group, I spoke about the global and local dimension of the construction of the highway system. Of course, it was expected that Members will mainly discuss this local dimension of the construction of the highway system or the acquisitions that the motorway brings into our environment. In opening, I would like to say that, clearly, this document, this annual plan for this year, the construction plan and the re-establishment of motorways, I will gladly support. Last but not least, and statistics show how much, say, only the gloomy economy is losing because it's still not connected by highway, I'll say now, with the motherland. The Chamber of Commerce calculated that this drop was in 2005, which is said to be the fallout of the gloomy economy, about 10 million euros. Of course, it is difficult to assess how this is due to the fact that there is no foreign investment coming into this environment, which could raise the standard substantially faster. I think my first question was my first question when we spoke with the Minister of Magi. Christmas, the question of the transverse profile of the foot of the highway. Of course, I trusted and clearly trust today the answers I received at the time. But the only question I personally have is: a projection of the increase in traffic, which was done years ago, would certainly have a different coordinated starting point if we went to the calculations today. Why? Slovenia has entered the European Union and we see because we consider trucks, specifically in the Long Village, to mean already Bulgaria and Romania's accession to the European Union, a drastic increase in freight transit transport. You can imagine what it means to drive about 5,000 trucks through villages every day. I once calculated that this meant, in terms of pollution of the environment, the same thing as putting a litre pot on every running meter, filling it with oil, diesel fuel, and, of course, lighting it every day. That means about the same thing. I am also very happy, and here I must commend the Government, which, on a recent visit to Pomour, said that it is working hard and thinking about introducing a special environmental burden tax to those who are most burdened by transport and by the suburban roads. I think that this tax for residents on this road would also be some kind of compensation for all the difficulties that people on this road have to experience. And, if we're talking about an ambitious plan, a record ambitious one. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I also want to whisper a little to the performers, to the builders, but maybe we could do some record again, given the good experience, given the good weather that the builders have in order to make a pomur or premurski. [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u59	Thank you very much. And I ask the motioner, Minister Christmas, would you like a word? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members. In this debate, with such an important document, which is a document that in some ways gives a great deal of dynamism in investment in the transport infrastructure of the country of Slovenia, a number of issues have been raised, in fact, open to the subject. Given that 10 minutes is not enough time for serious answers, we will also prepare answers to detailed, more detailed questions based on a magnetogram. However, on this occasion, I would answer some questions, capital or substantive ones, which have been answered in the debate, as very important - of course, on my part. Above all, the question raised is the financing of an additional motorway programme and the projects that are laid down in the so-called additional programme. Remember that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted the so-called Resolution on National Development Projects for the period 2007 - 2023 and has also identified dynamics and investments in this resolution. On the basis of the estimates available today, it has drawn up an investment plan for this additional transport infrastructure. It is highways and fast roads nearly 100 kilometers long, connecting roads 31 kilometers long. All of this amounts to just under 130 kilometres of new motorway links worth around €361 million. In short, this national development project resolution defines, in fact, that it will be financed in proportion to the public-private partnership and also from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. It is estimated that this would be around €180 million, 190 million from the budget and the private-private partnership €471 million. Among these projects, new development axes are also included in this segment. Perhaps I would add, the work on the response that has been exposed to funding from European funds. Let me say that at our ministry we have prepared our division for discussion in the Government. To put it briefly, the proposal of the Ministry of Transport is that the cohesion funds of the EU for the period 2007-2013, including by the end of the 2015 budget period, should be submitted, i.e., EUR 605 million for transport. Of this on the 177 million highways, because today is the discussion of the highway programme, this means for the sections of Pluska - Ponikve, Ponikve - Hrastje, Beltinci - Lendava and Slivnica - Draženci and then from the European Regional Development Fund EUR 183 million for transport and then for public passenger transport and air infrastructure, so that it will amount to around EUR 200 million. Many Members discussed the subject of the toll system. I must say that the Action Plan has actually been adopted by the Government and we are also preparing a section of the implementation of this document, that is, this Action Plan Programme and, of course, on the basis of this further activity. The plan is still if I generalise that next year, at the end of the year, we will move on to the so-called "free-flow" or free traffic flow of tolling, where we will of course respect the basic principle and that primary principle, which is payment after a mile. I think there's not enough time for a more global discussion on this subject. However, as a government, we will, of course, propose to the Transport Committee that a serious discussion be held on this subject. With regard to further steps or steps to be followed, in particular what I have already mentioned in the Transport Committee of the National Assembly, we will have an opportunity to discuss this subject extensively in the context of the debate on the preparation of the Tolling Act. The issue of the directive is, in fact, the interoperability of electronic systems. Recently there is supposed to be a law in the European Parliament, I must say that I am not aware of it, I think it is probably information that is not the last. The European Parliament adopted Directive 52/2004, which obliges all European countries to introduce an electronic system by the end of 2011, the toll system towards the interoperability of electronic systems and, in particular, the fourth category, means for trucks. Slovenia is preparing intensively for this in the context of the transition to an electronic toll system in full. A few words about construction costs on highways. I must say that based on the analyses that we are doing on a constant basis, it appears that prices by product, i.e. per kilometer of highway and per square metre of buildings, are still controlled that they are in those ranks that we have predicted. The data I have so far are that the price of less than €10 million per kilometre will be reached when the highway system is built. How can we cope with this by mentioning various lobbying or by participating in the construction of highways? I think that with the definition of limited prices we have said how much and where the offers are still correct and from there the providers fall out and I think that this is one lever with which prices are actually very, very concrete and in the right way controlled on the market. I would also like to mention this, an assessment that is compared to the European Union or countries that are building such transport infrastructure. Prices of sp in some parts even in the lower ranking and in some parts in the European Union's medium price range. A few more concrete answers. It's a low-rise highway. The transmission procedures are still in progress at the last sections. That section, which is in construction, which is past Otočac, will go on the market next year, even on 20.6.2008. In fact, I would only say that today's adoption of this programme gives a strong guarantee that we will have the goals that we have set ourselves in the government, and also in the debate in the National Assembly, that this basic motorway cross ends by the end of next year, given that the procedures for broadcasting are quite complex and very complex and can actually be extended a little, for a month, but certainly not in the key segments of the motorway system. The same is true for the road across the Rebernice. We expect an Italian contractor who is two months behind schedule to make up for this and actually hand over the facilities within the deadline and that we may put the first half of the fast road on the market by the end of the year and the second half of the early spring of next year. The issue of service and construction of toll stations of the service - it is a matter of accompanying facilities on motorways. The system set up at the beginning of the construction of the motorway system was verified in the light of the necessary scope of the various service activities. It will certainly need to be ventilated and provided with a higher level of this service. I am also personally convinced of this and I think that Dars is already undertaking these tasks, so that users of the motorway would actually provide better quality services in the field of both fuel servicing and catering and other capacities. However, I can answer a question related to future toll stations that are still under construction that all those who will be built will be built up in a way that will be able to be dismantled and that those parts of the buildings that will remain will be used for both traffic management and the future toll system, which will have to have certain points on which data will come into the system and will then be distributed to the main information centre. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u61	Minister, thank you very much. Given that we have not spent the time envisaged to address this point, I ask whether Members and Members wish to speak again, so that we share the extra time. I'm going to open the procedure. I'm going to ask everyone interested to sign up. Please. We've got a member of Parliament who's been notified. Comrade Tomaž Šteba, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Prime Minister of Darsa. I would also like to mention what we have been forgetting all the time, this is the issue of the construction of motorways, which is, of course, the most critical in some unbuilt areas of Slovenia. I want to say that the road and highway problems will be in Ljubljana and in some countries, it will become extremely critical once this traffic is more relaxed in other sections. Because of the centrality of all motorways in the capital and because, in my opinion, of the completely inappropriate concept of the construction of motorways around Ljubljana. In two parts it combines both the ring and international traffic, for example, the eastern Ljubljana bypass is actually a highway, which Barcelona is very. [[...]] So, in terms of the highway ring around Ljubljana, where there are actually delays and many accidents on the northern bypass. Mixing international highway transport with a large number of connections on the eastern Ljubljana bypass or that part of the motorway will become very critical in the sense that there will be day-to-day congestions and in this regard, I would like to refer to Mr Jerovska's discussion, because I remember very well the decisions made at the time of Minister Umek, how the highway was routed through Troyan and then to Šentjakob or to the connection with Ljubljana. Due to the exceptional interest in building the Ljubljana ring from highway money, which is logically made by Ljubljana, such a solution has occurred. Instead of moving a little further away from the settlement or the towns of Domžale and a little bit drenched and with a little tunnel, the real highway connection in Malenca. On the other hand, as Mr Jerovšek said, it was an extremely expensive building and bridged the area over the Trojans. Thus we have in Slovenia cases where highways are somehow meaningfully away from the city centres of Kranj - Celje and the exceptional proximity of the highway for example for the city of Domžale. This will cause great problems in the long run. My debate is, in particular, about the Ministry and the capital already starting to plan what will prove to be a major problem. I know it is now necessary to build a highway to the end in Slovenia, but in fact Slovenia or Ljubljana will become a major problem. However, I would like to thank and expect from the Minister specific answers for what has been mentioned in the debate and I would like the motorway programme to be implemented in accordance with the plan this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u63	Thank you very much. This also concludes the debate on the proposal for a decision. The annual plan will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda. I thank the representatives of the Government for their participation and answers. And we're breaking this agenda. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Draft resolution on the National Programme for Language Policy in the period 2007-2011 We have an estimated 3 hours and 45 minutes of debate for this item. The motion for a resolution was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, and it was therefore essentially meant that the Minister would also speak. Given the Minister's wish, and I'll follow it, we'll wait for him to come to the meeting. I'm adjourning the choir session in 10 minutes. We'll pick her up at 13.50. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u64	Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the Government. We're moving on with the 9th. As announced, the motion for a resolution has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Council, so I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motion for a resolution. Dr. Vasko Simoniti, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u65	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the Republic of Slovenia, there were major changes in the state's independence in 1991, including in the language position. Although in public in the mid-1990s there have been a number of warnings about the need for appropriate language planning and the professionally designed and democratically adopted language policy and, although the language situation has been the result of negotiations on Slovenia's entry into the European Union, the following years have become further complicated, uncoordinated improvisation and delay have continued in language policy. It was only in 2004 that the preparation and adoption of the national language policy programme became an obligation under Article 28 of the Slovenian Public Use Act. Then, within a two-year period, the Ministry of Culture produced a draft two-part text, a study with a critical analysis of the language situation, and a motion for a resolution on the national programme. Half a year's delay in addressing this resolution in the National Assembly has been due to the completion and revision of the text on the basis of numerous additions and comments from the extensive public hearing, following the publication of the draft on the websites of the Ministry of Culture. And, of course, because of the hard but successful inter-resort coordination, before confirming the refined text in the Government. This was necessary because language policies are not a cultural sandstone or a reserve of the Ministry of Culture, but are the enforcement and development of language according to the legal provisions and the resolution principles of the terrible figure of the whole government as an organ of the Slovenian state. Although the Ministry of Culture is the central designer and coordinator of language policy under Article 26 of the Public Use Act of Slovenia, other ministries which are responsible for specific areas where the law establishes obligations regarding the use of Slovenian are required to participate in the management of these tasks. The proposed resolution, following the very short historical outline of Slovenian linguistic and political issues and the evaluation of today's language situation, presents, on the basis of a strategic vision, principles and objectives, a five-year programme of measures to achieve these objectives. For reasons of systematicity and transparency, the measures are classified in the four priority areas of the language policy set out in Article 4 of the Public Use Act. Firstly, to provide legal basis for language use, secondly scientific research monitoring of language life, thirdly the dissemination of linguistic capacity, fourthly the development and culture of language in traditional and new areas that open up social and technological development. This takes into account the framework of the programmes already adopted by the Republic of Slovenia, the ratified international instruments and the acquis adopted by the European Union. Slovenia has become a structurally flexible and functionally developed modern language along a long and complex historical path. It has even reached the position of one of the EU's official languages. All of this does not mean that its image and status, today and in the future, no longer require strategically thought-out and coherent language policy measures. The fundamental content of these measures is the extension of the linguistic capacity in Slovenian and the development of the linguistic awareness needed for personal growth and for the concerted effectiveness of citizens in the knowledge society. The Republic of Slovenia accepts Slovenian as a hereditary cultural asset and recognises as a well-developed mother tongue the large majority of its population the domestic position and position of the state language. In a democratic spirit, it also supports the learning of other languages and the cohesive training of everyone in their mother tongue. The principle of entrenchedness in domestic culture as a starting point for world openness strengthens social cohesion and mitigates the unilateral linguistic effects of mobility on the globalisation boom. The Slovenian public space should remain monolingual or bilingual in constitutionally defined areas - with Italian or Hungarian, of course, the need for some messages in other languages is taken further into account, but so that the Slovenian language is still a symbolic advantage. The country shall ensure, as its strategic responsibility, the further development and use of Slovenian in all areas of public life, within its borders and in international contacts, by encouraging and regulatory measures. It undertakes to support the use of Slovenian also between Slovenians outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia and to disseminate the content expressed in Slovenian in the actual and virtual international space, thus enforcing its linguistic origin as an important component of European cultural diversity. The Charter that we propose to the National Assembly, the adoption, gives the highest priority to Slovenian for reasonable reasons. However, since it also regulates the relationship to foreign languages and since the State must not forget that among its citizens, there are also people with special needs or other mother tongues who are also worthy and need due respect, the addresses of this Charter are not a resolution on the national programme for Slovenian, but rather a more comprehensive one with the name Resolution on the National Programme for Language Policy. In order to illustrate this breadth, let me specifically mention the following measures: exploring the contact forms of language and communication - this is about the specificities of the language of immigrants, visiting workers, asylum seekers; then standardising the Roma language in Slovenia, then monitoring the vitality and effects of established minority education models in Slovenia and in substitution; then adopting curricula for the subject of Slovenian sign language as a second language in deaf institutions, and for a selection course in secondary schools for hearingable youth; then taking into account the cultural needs and organisation of minority languages; then offering the Slovenian language courses as a foreign language for immigrants, host workers while providing their associations with books in their native language; then taking into account the cultural needs and organisation of minority communities; and implementing the high standards of minority language protection in Slovenia; and, first, insisting on the European Union's collective cooperation with the European Union on the realisation of the European language and the organisation of minority communities; However, linguistic and political regulation in the context of a globalised information society cannot rely on declarations of love for the mother tongue nor on the self-sacrifice of individual Slovenians and on the occasional support of civil society groups, nor on the possible entrepreneurial interest. Therefore, for individual actions or planned tasks at this level, we provide for specific officials, as well as operators, deadlines and the necessary financial resources. If we are serious about what we say when we love our motherland, or if our continued application and development of Slovenian is our strategic goal, we must not be afraid of the fact that such direction has financial consequences. A number of activities in terms of active language policy are, of course, already under way and, for them, certain resources are allocated each year in the budget. However, for the introduction of new tasks or for the extension of existing activities, the national programme foresees the need for additional funding from the state budget over a period of five years. Actual consumption will continue to be very low in the current year 2007 and is expected to be provided within the framework of the permissible possibilities for reallocation between budget lines within a single ministry or between ministries. A few more resources for the implementation of tasks in 2008 will be foreseen in the 2008 budget changes and for the subsequent years in the regular financial planning by 2011. Most of these funds are to be spent through three departments, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and the Ministry of Education and Sport in five years. Minor sums will be required during this period for the intended linguistic and political tasks of other ministerial departments and government services. The proposed Resolution on the National Programme for Language Policy is therefore based: for the first time, on the analysis of the historical and simultaneous placement of the Slovenian language in the development of the Slovenian people; for the second time, on the assumption that the full function of the Slovenian language is ensured throughout the Slovenian cultural space, i.e. in the case of Slovenians in substitution and eviction. The main key to the successful preservation of the Slovenian language and consequently the Slovenian national identity within the European Union and the globalising global economic space; and the third, at the conclusion that it needs the field of language policy, as particularly sensitive to national identity, adequate care and appropriate intervention by the State. On behalf of the Ministry of Culture and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I propose to the Members and Members of the National Assembly to adopt a resolution on the National Programme for Language Policy and confirm the set of 124 measures as specific instructions for the implementation of the tasks referred to in Article 4 of the Public Use Act of Slovenia for the period up to 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u66	Thank you, too. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I'm asking the chairman of the committee, mag. Branca Grims to report to the board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. I'd like to say good-bye to everyone. At its 22nd meeting, on 10 April, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport considered the draft resolution on the national programme for language policy for 2007 to 2011 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the Committee we took note of the fact that it is mainly a five-year operational programme of actions aimed at supporting and further developing the Slovenian language as well as a wider Slovenian culture, both on domestic soil and at spreading the Slovenian language abroad. From this point of view, the resolution was positively assessed, some comments from the opposition were mainly about coordination in the implementation of this programme, and some concerns were also raised regarding the level of funds. The most important debate was the amendment proposed as an amendment to the committee to remove the possibility of experimental synchronisation of certain films for different age groups. Finally, the Committee endorsed these amendments tabled by the coalition, which were in fact of a legal nature based on the comments of the Legal Service, including the other proposed amendments, and the amendment of the Committee. In doing so, the Committee voted on all parts and also endorsed the motion for a resolution and proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the resolution should also be adopted in the proposed text, which, of course, contains all the amendments already adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u68	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views on the motion for a resolution. The position of unrelated Members will be presented by Mrs Majda Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u69	Mr. Minister, Mr. Dular, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! The resolution we have on the table is a record of philosophical ideas. There's too many, but there's not enough. She was tied up not to say weaving for too long, two and a half years late, maybe if there was no interpolation, she'd still be late. To a large extent, he wants to protect Slovenian in a very sensitive way where there is no need at all, sometimes he almost criminalises foreign languages and leaves other language communities too far behind. I will only mention the main incompatibilities, inconsistencies, perhaps even bizarreness, even because there is sufficient principled enthusiasm and insufficient detailed knowledge and reading of the entire text in this document. This will help me to avoid the advantages of the resolution and which we welcome. It is true that in the debate on the resolution on the national language policy programme from this year to 2011, one item, just one segment, was reflected in the public debate on the national language policy programme. The idea of trying to synchronize adult film performances is bizarre enough and could not be without comment. I am more concerned that there is still a host of additional incomprehensibility and absurd lenghts left to us by this resolution over the next five years. The absurd and devastating idea of the business of adult film success has been defended by some advocates of the resolution with an explanation that it is mainly on DVDs. But even if we would accept this interpretation, which has been given, which attempts to solve the killing, not only of the national language, but also of the film language, it is worth noting that the resolution elsewhere mentions only video tapes and not DVDs, which are, by the way, completely out of use. Ignorance of theory and practice is also evident in the fact that public libraries are also considered to be a synchronisation of foreign films. Otherwise, film success - by the way, I don't understand who should be separating who will separate success from failures - film success for adults, once again, or those adults who watch success are like children who can't read, and those who watch art movies know. In short, adult film success stories are supposed to be synchronized by distributors and film institutes. What institute, I ask? Where is the Law on the Institute, which exactly a year ago had 14 days for comments by e-mail rather than in public debate? Will it even be an institute? When did we hear from the National Assembly Committee recently that it was supposed to be a public institution or something like that? I ask what a joke this is now, not just a synchronisation, but also a play with an institution that is not yet, but something that this resolution is ordering her to do. Even this institution, which is, this is called the film fund, obviously does not have today - in the middle of May, its programme for this year. Otherwise, the law speaks not only of the film institute, but also of the law on the foundation for a book, which we know is not or is in any other form. In this respect, it is inconsistent and could be prepared if it is possible not to be afraid that the law or resolution would then be open. The resolution also provides for targeted research programmes of expertise, a number of research, recommends, for example, the views of people towards the non-Slovenian names of restaurants and public inscriptions, as well as the bilinguality and area of indigenous minorities in Slovenia and in place. Not only in this place, but through the entire language policy programme, we follow the instructions, even more so, to the titles of research tasks, which are completely planned and legally dictated by the state, not by the profession. In this case, it is said, in the case of this study that I cited, the state is ordering research into people's views on something, which is already stipulated by the law when it comes to the use of Slovenian, or even the constitution, when it comes to bilingualism. Otherwise, we also meet with a reference to the study of "Slovenian in recent Slovenian films". In view of the many fears of slangs, to sentences, to the language of conversation, and in particular to the controversy that accompanied the rejected film program from the film fund programme [[We know what the film is, and the Minister also translated it into the National Assembly.]] , such research is accompanied by the idea that in a recent Slovenian film there is not enough pure language. A complete stranger is also the measure in the chapter, which speaks of 'growing newer forms of linguistic usability and communication'. It is written here that "the discovery and promotion of the culture of SMSs is necessary". This, I wonder, is some new activity, perhaps for the police, perhaps for intelligence services or possibly for linguists who will detect and promote verbal errors in SMS messages; of course, we do not understand this. In the chapter on higher contractual culture in society, the resolution also touches on teaching. It goes to lecture only those books that are subsidized by the State, but does not raise the issue of teaching in general, but only assigns it to those literature that receives help from the State. More linguistic, I can say, but even claustrophobia brings a chapter that speaks of "the collapse of extensive foreign language language passages in Slovenian radio news broadcasts". Allow me to interpret this dictatorship in my own way, but, translated into practice, this would mean that those seconds, those who speak in informational radio broadcasts in a foreign language, are understood to be too extensive than the lengths and that they need to be reduced. For example, if Barroso, Wender, speaks someone else in a foreign language, the authors of the resolution think that this text has been rolling for too long before it is silenced by the Slovenian translation. Now it would be interesting to know whether this measure was created by a stopwatch in the hands of those linguistic ones, in which case I would even say Purists who analyzed the seconds of the original rumor. They may have found that this listener or listener has too much time available to recognize the color of the voice, the tone of the pronunciation, the emotions of the performer and the warmth or sharpness of his or her words. I'd be happy to get an explanation. So far, these questions have not been answered. What is particularly surprising, and I am also angry, is the fact that the resolution does not touch on the issue of the use of both forms of gender registration, male and female. It also uses no, but even though we were in the National Assembly years ago, as you may recall, I will say that we have legalized the registration of laws in male and female form. Moreover, the resolution points out, in my opinion, a stereotyped perception of the role, because in one measure, for example, I quote, it recommends the issue of teaching material for Slovenian, in rounding up, for example, for Slovenian secretaries. In short, our cultural or linguistic politicians allow traditional division of roles, when only a female secretary, while a man is a business secretary - or what? About why a woman is a housewife and a man is a master, why a woman is a nurse and a man is not a nurse, but especially there is no word written here, she also referred to any research and research assignment, except that which already has an address, I quote: "Sexist vigour in citing gender versions". What the hell is this? Is it a study of the excessive use of both sexes; I don't understand and I don't know if we fought for it. She would mention many more such details, which were obviously not enough for one in all the fine language that was exposed to this programme, but if on the one hand we hear that there are fewer Slovenians in vocational, especially secondary schools, then there are no big words about the meaning of language as an essential element of our cultural identity. In the interest of language policy, there should be in particular flexible and healthy care for our foreign language as well as foreign language. The communication, which is certainly a late resolution, is full of controversy. On the one hand, a lot of nice words about the mission of language, on the other hand, too much, say, even violence against it, in fact, already some kind of household cleaning, which is also plentiful in such partisanities as for example - sorry but I went to read the text in full - for example, 'the task in the resolution on the publication of all web addresses in all the institutions dealing with language', which is, of course, something so self-evident that in the roof, strategic document, I guess there is nothing to look for. Or even a guidance on the development of a common manual for government representatives in decision-making processes in the European Union. In short, nothing about reviving or re-establishing a parliamentary working group for a language that has in the past acted in a very constructive and encouraging manner, or about the Ministry of Culture not to remain silent and incoherent, waiting for what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has said or did not say when it comes to non-execution of rights in a bilingual area. The resolution will come into force soon, there is no doubt that we would not say no to it today. This year, let me warn you, the Ministry of Culture is devoting only 20,000 euros to the presentation, application and development of the Slovenian language, so to speak, 0.013 thousandths of all funds available to the Ministry of Culture. It is true that other ministries are also supposed to finance language policy and all measures related to it, but we do have a language department at the Ministry of Culture, which receives this change to promote and promote the development of the Slovenian language, which is indeed very little. It is difficult to approve and support such a resolution with the emphasis that I have put forward now. Undoubtedly, there are also some benefits that have been said mainly by the Minister, but they are not enough that in my ranks, my Group of Members can be fully impressed and supported by her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u70	Thank you, too. Mr Bogdan Barovic will give the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr Minister, distinguished co-workers of the Ministry, first of all colleagues and colleagues. Today, as far as I'm aware, graduates have their first test, just in their mother tongue. In addition, as far as I am aware, there are dilemmas that the distinguished Minister will also deal with, this is about foreign languages that are supposed to be compulsory, optional and how many mandatory languages should be in the process. I'm glad it's the first test, not the last one for seniors, the mother tongue. We are happy to have everyone in the Slovenian National Party who constantly reminds us of the importance of our language culture, because if there were no Slovenian language, Slovenian writers and poets, believe me, there would be no Slovenian state. And it is true that before us is a resolution based on the adopted law on the public use of Slovenian in 2004, in which I have also participated personally and on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. There is a lot of content that undoubtedly speaks for the document that we accept today. It is particularly important that, at the time of our decision to join the European Union, we are aware of our importance, given that the Slovenian language has become the official language of the international organisation, especially in the European Parliament, although in some other institutions, I warn you, it is still not the official language of Slovenia, because it is just a few. It is right for us to adopt and formulate a planned policy in Slovenia in the area of the preservation and respect of the Slovenian language. The national language policy programme for the next five-year period we are talking about is basically a good document for the Slovenian National Party. Basically a good document, I emphasize. This document, however, is at the discretion of the Slovenian National Party, and, of course, we hope that the Minister of Respect understands this, will lay the groundwork for all other documents that will ensure the realisation in practice. Slovenia in the European Union at the time of entry into the European Union is, as I said, still not speaking anywhere where it could be proud that it is a feeling that it is losing its identification power. One might think that it is also a matter of ensuring cultural and national instability. The legal status of the Slovenian language, at least in this country, is respected and thank God that it is, however, so much less respected or so much less powerful in international or European institutions. Unfortunately for us - some things need to be said, dear Mr. Minister, everything is written down because it was never good or can not be good, but it can be corrected - that in Slovenian, respected Mr. Dular will remember when we had a lot of discussions on the Slovenian language, for example, we do not understand that some candidates for applying to the public invitations of the Republic of Slovenia and its authorities must report in a foreign language; that these are some conditions, an urgent evil. [[...]] We cannot assess what private people are saying about this, but the country, I think, should act simply and simply: whoever wants to go anywhere in public service, in public service, among our colleagues, is enough to present who is, what is, and presents his CV in his, our, Slovenian language. The four priorities are set out in the strategy: providing legal basis for language use, scientific research on language dissemination, language extension and language development and culture. This implementation, I stress in the presence of the Minister, is the responsibility of the Slovenian government. Another fear is in the Slovenian National Party, which gives it some basis for parts of this resolution, which is the pressure from abroad, the free movement of labour, migration, which allows, at least in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, too much liberalisation for these people. So these people, foreigners who do not know language, culture, have too many rights in some elements and too little responsibility to be included in a community that is accepted for a short time or a certain time, especially by learning, by learning language and culture. In practice, I like to say that when we were now with respectable colleagues at the Interparliamentary Union meeting far away in Indonesia, the Indonesians spoke with great pleasure every day when we met, when we had contacts, "thank you" - "huala". They learned right away, they loved, they had obedience, they understood that we were another nation. I liked that. However, I do not like the coming of foreigners who are granted asylum by this country, which gives them the opportunity to survive, which is possible socially and humanly right, that they do not want and do not want and that they do not have the conditions at all to adapt in due time - language speaking - to the country in which they live; to our country, the Republic of Slovenia. In this part, I would like to touch only some others, as my colleague spoke before me, content that is actually a little exaggerated. In the Slovenian National Party we say that it is nice and right that this resolution is to respect the law, that such a law is that we love our language, but more papal than the pope sometimes it is not good to be if you understand what I mean. I speak in particular, care for the preservation and dissemination of the Slovenian language in connection with the synchronisation of films. Once again, this is a typical case of being more papal than the Pope. In his introduction, the distinguished minister said that by subtitleing they cared for - forgive the expression, perhaps not the right - the marginal group or those groups, you stressed, the respected minister, the more minority. I would like to tell you that you are specifically, but I hope that you will listen to me, Mr Minister, the Association of Blind and Disabled Slovenia has been working to synchronize mainly educational and documentary shows in their favour for 20 years. It also seems good to me that I am interfering with the instrument of synchronisation in the field of child and youth education; I am speaking specifically, whether funny or not, about synchronisation of cartoons. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, however, to go into such a large financial contribution that, in our opinion, it is absolutely not possible to reach within three, four, five years and in absolute synchronisation of all films, but for the Slovenian National Party, forgive, unacceptable. It is unacceptable, of course, in a number of aspects, because no one has asked themselves whether or not there are some professional grounds, whether we have sufficient professional and human resources to be professional, that is to say professionally - I am also careful with any foreign expression to express myself Slovenian - whether we have a professional team capable of doing so. In addition, visualization is something that must affect our decision. I'm going to give an absurd comparison, Chinese or Chinese based on my moves and movements to synchronize in Slovenian in some movie is -- well, maybe a little unusual. I'll give you an example. If you remember, we always liked to read Karl Maya, in Slovenian, of course, a beautiful spoken word, a content that also gave us some knowledge about the world where he traveled, about history. And if we watched movies when Winnetou said "ich habe gesprochen" there, of course, it's unacceptable. And so it would also be unacceptable that - I don't know, I speak very comparatively - in Slovenian someone stressed some sincere words that must be in the original. In short, since I am being pursued by time, in the Slovenian National Party we are pleased to see a great deal of concern for the Slovenian language, for the proposal of this resolution, but at the same time, given that the resolution is a unilateral statement that we want at least to be adopted by consensus, if not unanimously, to find some extremes that are likely to [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] Expressed also by, excluded and actually cared for really beautiful, says Slovenian language to raise young people from kindergarten further. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u72	Thank you, too. Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u73	Mr Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members. In Europe, we are being warned or better told that it is primarily up to us to what extent we will keep our language. Then we marvel at our own carelessness and frailty, which contribute to the denial of Slovenia in its cradle. Slovenia, as an equal member of the European Community, has the opportunity to adequately represent its national interests. We believe that the affairs of foreigners are also in its national interest and that if the European Community has asked all new members to enter into the strictest compliance with minority provisions, we see no reason why this would not also apply to the old members. In this resolution, Slovenia has committed itself to supporting the use of Slovenian also between Slovenes beyond its national borders and to disseminate the content expressed in Slovenia in the actual and virtual international space, thus enforcing its linguistic origin as an indispensable component of European cultural diversity. He survived and fought many war winds, finally experienced the status of the official language in the international community and therefore deserves special care, a positive attitude, recognition - first of all from the nation to which he belongs, which he identifies with. Therefore, language policy planning needs to be carried out with all due care in order to create appropriate legal grounds for the use of language, to continuously monitor language life through scientific research activities, to expand language skills and to take care of language development and culture. It is worth noting that the care for the language must not only be directed to the department, but that the co-responsible holders of positive use and development of motherhood are every single government as a whole, all the authorities of all branches of government, the need and importance of cooperation among all civil society groups, is indispensable for the active work of the profession. Finally, it must be acknowledged that the upright attitude of the Slovenian language depends on the support given to each Slovenian. We support the resolution in order to strengthen the status of our language within and outside its home country through the deliberate and coordinated actions of the national programme, so that its flexibility, modernity, diversity and wealth can be consistently confirmed through application in all areas of social life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u74	Thank you, too. Comrade Branko Grims will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u75	Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! Slovenian language is a value. The Slovenian language is not only a value but also a quality, that constitutional element of the existence of the Slovenian nation, which has been preserved through the centuries and millenniums of our common history. And that is why the Slovenian language deserves the proper relationship of all of us and of course of all the actors who perform in this story, because the Slovenian nation without the Slovenian language simply does not exist and cannot be. The draft resolution on the national language policy programme 2007-2011 was a very long time. Again and again, in this National Assembly, we have witnessed comments that a single act which appears as a proposal by the Government in the National Assembly has not been subject to public debate enough time to make comments about it, not in the professional circles or in the general public. In this case, this comment is certainly not true. On the contrary, as has already been pointed out, two and a half years of public debate is large, very large. Many things can also happen, which in some ways may even mean a problem. Like, a lot of things can change in technology. Three years ago, or two years ago, videocassettes were still alpha and omega everything that was broadcast at home via television or other means intended for this purpose, screens of all different forms and possibilities. Today this is changing and it will be even more so in the coming years. Those who today HD, DVD or blue ray disks offer as the latest technology should be aware that already there are three-dimensional forms of light-based recordings, with lasers that enable even more quality and essential capacity of their carriers, and will surely be re-exchanged in the coming years, and then there can be many more. Sooner or later, however, almost everything will be moved onto the broadband Internet. Some of us are already lucky because Slovenia has taken some very big steps technologically in recent years on the European and global scale that this Internet is already available to us through light connections. Some are still waiting for this opportunity. However, as it is said, the Slovenian language deserves special attention and all support at home and abroad, especially, and I want to underline this, deserves a positive attitude. I'm sorry, colleagues and colleagues, but it's quite amazing how the debate on the Slovenian language can be banalized, stormed out that I don't use any worse terms, to the extent that we've witnessed in this Chamber a little while ago, and, unfortunately, it's happened in the general public as well as in the Committee on Culture, Education and Sports of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, the motion for a resolution contains many extremely important solutions that are qualitative, thoughtful and well-prepared. And to practically bring the whole public debate to a banalised debate about some bizarre idea of synchronisation is at least, what we can say, inappropriate. Slovenian language as a fundamental constitutional element of the Slovenian people and the core of our culture deserves a different, significantly more serious and positive relationship. Look at the idea of synchronization. It is not true what was said a little earlier that it is an absolute synchronization of all films - far from it! If you have read what the resolution really says, it is also an experimental possibility to synchronize some successes, in addition to, of course, films that are already one way or another, such as cartoons intended for young people. Today, technology allows you, if you want to be on DVDs, on other media in electronic form, as if you wanted, on digital channels on television, to choose for yourself which language you will be a certain film or broadcaster, you can also learn, listen and watch. It is said that you can choose between the sound of synchronization, between the language of synchronization and, of course, also between the language of subtitles. All of this technology today makes it possible for every child to know whether a DVD has been run at home, or for every child who has played with a remote and has digital channels on television. Those who do not yet have the knowledge that digitisation is also being introduced rapidly in Slovenia and that by the end of this year this service will be practically accessible to all. So that's what this is all about. It is even an experimental opportunity to offer this option to Slovenians and Slovenes or Slovenian citizens and citizens. Why did I say it was a banal way we had seen before? It has been forgotten that there are already certain groups that can benefit them very much who want to. For example - there is a group of older people who simply cannot monitor subtitles in normal size anymore but can still observe what is happening. And we would love to see the film, but we should have this film synchronized in Slovenian in order to fully understand the event. We have been familiar with such desires several times in the past, and such desires have been officially granted. That's what's been forgotten. Also, that children and youth do not master all foreign languages, that they sometimes see any successes if you want, and not just cartoons - also this has been forgotten in this banalized debate. Above all, I warn you once again: it is an attempt to offer any option at all. And how could it be that Slovenian would not have earned a place in, say, a movie like German, Italian, French, English, and in Slovenian territory they would not have even allowed it to be offered. What a relationship this is to our language, please! The motion for a resolution is also appropriate from this point of view, and I firmly believe that it is up to us, when we decide on the following budgets, whether and to what extent it will actually be realized. For, of course, the resolution itself is only a plan. The resources to be allocated for the implementation of the individual programme will only be determined by the adoption of budgets in the coming years. And from this point of view, this is just an additional reason to point out that the banality of such a debate is simply not appropriate. Finally, it is important to note that the Slovenian language in the processes of globalisation is not only exposed to external pressure, as it is simply said, but is also exposed to absorption and all those influences from within, which are then transformed, deciding whether or not to decide whether or not to use it. And from this point of view, the objective of the resolution is, in my firm belief, another one which has, in fact, been largely avoided in the introductory debate. This is literally civil education, because without a positive attitude towards Slovenian, to Slovenian language, I say, there can be no positive attitude towards Slovenia as such and, of course, there is also a quick question - the attitude towards the Slovenian state. This country is a common country - not only to Slovenes and Slovenes, but to all citizens and citizens who live here. Each has its own mother tongue, but at the same time it is also the home country, the only country that exists, the state of Slovenk and the Slovenes. And from this point of view, for my conviction, a positive attitude towards Slovenian is a very important, fundamental element of the continuation and enforcement of Slovenia, the Slovenian people and the Slovenian state, side by side with all others, in an equal way, and I think that the time, now in practice, even with the help of this resolution, is what we have been talking about for 15 years. But we always said this: "We are going to Europe to offer our quality, our knowledge, our language and our culture." I think that with a positive attitude towards Slovenian, we can also confirm that we have taken this seriously. Of course, we will be happy to support the resolution in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Ambassador Majda Potrat will give the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u77	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary, Mr. Dular, Members and Members of Parliament! The Group of Social Democrats will support the resolution on the national language policy programme. This does not mean that we are fully satisfied with the resolution that has been tabled, so allow me to make a few critical remarks at the expense of this text, a lot omitted or preinterpreted. The resolution we are talking about is based on the Public Use Act of Slovenia, which provides in Article 28 that a national language policy programme should be adopted. To be precise, the resolution should be adopted within two years, which is to say that a resolution should be adopted in August last year. Article 28 is not the only article in the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian related to the specific competences and special responsibility of the State for the implementation of language policy and language planning, as well as the obligations that follow. This is a set of three articles, paragraphs 26, 27 and 28, and I stress this in particular because these articles also follow the country's obligations to what it must do for language policy and language planning and how it should concretely address actions and activities, as the document's proponents say. We are aware that the law itself, as well as the resolution, cannot meet very different expectations and replace individuals and common responsibilities for the language. However, the law or, in this case, the resolution on the national programme may draw attention to the language of all citizens and citizens, especially those who are in any way active in the public domain. By means of a resolution, it is necessary to prescribe and attract, as it were said, the entire population to an active attitude towards their own language and to convey to them an understanding of the advantages of the first language in the creative conquest of other languages. Only in this way will we develop multilingualism from our own will and will we not slip into the positions of different degrees of linguistic subordination. This is particularly due to the fact that the resolution repeatedly mentions or can be seen, in principle, the concern about the melting pot, which nobody hopes to say publicly, but the melting pot needs to be feared. If we are discussing a resolution from the point of view of creation, the delay in adopting a resolution of regret is worth considering, because of the missed opportunity, budgeting the necessary resources for all those measures and activities that could be implemented already this year. Thus, the trainees themselves have warned that only those measures and activities that have no direct financial implications will be able to take place this year. The drafters also considered that the material had been published on the website as a draft and that it had received the principled support of the language profession and the wider civil society, that the comments and additions from the intensive public hearing had been taken into account in completing the text. Well, I don't know what this position on intensive public treatment refers to, at least in the last month, to the expectation that public debate on the national language policy programme would take place, but it seems that those who thought so were only a little premature with regard to admission to the National Assembly. I mentioned that Article 27 of the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian also states that the Government must form an inter-resort coordinating body to ensure the implementation of language policy and language planning. It is therefore very interesting to note that only six ministries made comments in the inter-departmental coordination that five ministries did not have any specific comments. Interestingly, however, the comments made by the Strategic Council for Culture, Education and Science on the National Council for Culture have been highlighted or noted. In doing so, I should like to point out that the comments, for example, were not made by the Ministry of Public Administration to the resolution, which is welcome to express itself through its measures for friendly state and public administration. In view of the recent findings on the poor functional literacy of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, it would be expected that, in particular, this Ministry would review the resolution and propose measures and activities to ensure that, with its messages, many of which depend on individual performance or failure to address the public administration, such measures would ensure that the language form of the forms, recommendations, all other documents with which an individual is to carry out are prepared in such a way that functionally weaker letters would not have problems in fulfilling them. But it doesn't seem like something like this has happened. In the introductory chapters of the resolution, it cannot be overlooked that there is still a dissatisfaction with the image of the Slovenian Public Use Act in July 2004. It is clear to him that he is materially impoverished, and it is this resolution that has determined the outcome of the adopted Law on the Public Use of Slovenian. I would like to point out that the Public Use Act has only more precisely defined article 11 of the Slovenian Constitution as an official language and has only upgraded over 70 different laws in which it can already be found that the use of Slovenian is being determined. This has caused the law-makers a lot of trouble because, according to the Law-Legal Service, in certain places, the law can only summarize what has already been standardised at legal level. I am very interested in how the usefulness and determination of certain provisions of the umbrella Law on the Roma Community, which dealt with the same problems as the Public Use Act of Slovenia, will be demonstrated when it tried to regulate some of the things already laid down in the field legislation. The Law on the Public Use of Slovenian was created on the basis of the Law on the Use of Slovenian as an Official Language, which was introduced into the legislative procedure by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and after the agreed withdrawal of the bill, a group of Members and Members tabled the replacement text of the law. Since the first proposal did not take advantage of the opportunity for top-level experts dealing with those aspects of language that could be the basis for legal regulation, together with lawyers, to draw up a text covering the whole issue, much time has been spent to resolve some of the dilemmas known to the general public, not only the professional public. The adoption of the law is therefore, in fact, a compromise between different viewpoints and interests in some cases. The legal arrangements for the use of Slovenian must complement language planning and effective language policy. The latter must be organised to monitor the state of Slovenian in the new situation and, above all, it must be one of the priority policies of the Slovenian State, which will also prove to be in the provision of funds for its implementation. This is why it is so important what is enshrined in the national language policy programme. Here, however, it is not possible to shake the feeling that, at least at the principle level in the introductory chapters of the resolution, we still have to deal with the issue of the threat of Slovenian, with the weakened position of Slovenian in new circumstances, and although Slovenia has also received official language status in the European Union and even the Slovenians remind us that since then the position of Slovenian also for members of the Slovenian minority in Austria has received different connotations than it had before. The fact that the Ministry of Culture, in particular in the Slovenian language sector, cannot remove certain past concerns, also shows reports on the implementation of the national programme on culture for the past two years in the part where the first priority is discussed, as well as the annual report on the implementation of the law on the public use of Slovenian. In the national programme, the attitude towards the Slovenian language and the language policy, as described in the national programme, is also noted by NGOs in the analysis of the two reports I spoke about. The language policy described in the national programme for culture, the use of language is governed not by restrictiveity but by awareness and encouragement. The rapporteurs understand this only as a report on restrictive measures, infringements, inspections and the like. Therefore, it is also possible to read again in the resolution how the Slovenian language sector is fed up with human resources, how the vast majority of the tasks are said to be activities and actions related directly to monitoring, statistical monitoring and complaints about human resources malnutrition. If we do not break off from this organisation and that something else in the law has been resolved, as was expected before, then the resolution on language policy will not help us to overcome and move some things for the better. I would like to touch on some of the other things that, in my opinion, are poorly placed in the part that is actually the main task of the resolution on the national language policy programme. For it speaks, as it is said, of measures, of activities, of carriers, of operators and of financial resources. I'll stop by the carriers first. In my opinion, carriers are poorly defined because if you examine who you will find among the carriers of individual measures and tasks, you will find a National Assembly in several places. The holder of individual measures and activities may be the Government, they may be individual sector ministries. The mandate of the National Assembly is to monitor, monitor, implement both the resolution and lay down the law on the public level of Slovenia. In order to make matters even more complicated, for example, the two Committees of the National Assembly have been entrusted with a means of taking certain decisions concerning higher education. These are the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology and the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, as if these two committees were adopting study or learning plans. A very interesting situation is also in determining carriers, where the above-mentioned strategic council for culture, science, etc. is written as a carrier. But look, this strategic council is the strategic council of this government, whose mandate is until 2008, and we are talking about a national programme that concerns the year 2007 to 2011. In particular, the indications of the operators of the individual actions and activities are of particular interest. There you will find in some places completely open, where there will be talk about the choice of the contractor, but on the other hand you have a clearly defined contractor who, by the way, ignores others who are also dealing with a problem. You will find a written, say - so for illustration only - a world congress, but you will not find any Slovenian queens written down if we are already at this point. That's how you want to, like, touch another problem. This is shown on page 14 or in the chapter on principles. It also states that the objectives of language care should be so set that the co-responsibility of all government departments and of every government as a whole - this does not end with the requirement of Article 28 of the Public Use Act - and then further, that civil society groups, societies, movements, religious communities, the public and private sectors should be allowed to participate, in particular, in the design of language policy measures - but further, without the profession being an orbi for politics or to decide instead of politics. It's like the drafters of the resolution are afraid of the profession! And here I'm going to touch on a question that was briefly discussed, and I can't help but say some silent facts. In view of the fact that there has been an expert group on language issues in the National Assembly since 1994, which has made numerous proposals to the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport regarding legislation and certain other decisions. The initiative to set up an advisory expert group on language issues related to the situation of Slovenian language in the official and public life of the Republic of Slovenia gave, as was said, a language profession, more specifically, the Slovenian Public Service Section, which was re-established in the Slavistic Society of Slovenia in autumn 1993. The reason for the initiative of the Slavic Society was the position in which the Slovenian language was found after the independence, when it became the only official language of the Republic of Slovenia - of course I ignore both minority languages in the national mixed territory. Despite this new situation, a certain type of language policy has somehow expired through independence. The view was that problems with a single country had been solved, or attempted to solve, problems with a single country, without the cooperation of experts in the drafting of laws. That is why the Slavic Society proposed the establishment of a group and acted under the name of the Working Group on Language Planning and Language Policy. This is to avoid further explaining and citing, inter alia, a proposal for a law on the public use of the Slovenian language. And in the work of this group, two ways of solving were shown in Slovenia: so-called restrictive, orderly and agreed, which indicates the scope of use, but opens the creative field of communication to the speaker or writer, given his personal need for a suitable term for an effective message. Well, you see, and the law on the public use of Slovenian followed this second view, and that is probably the reason why the Working Group on Language Policy and Language Planning was abolished in this reference, and the preparation of a quality national language policy and language planning programme would still be necessary. I wanted to say this last with a special purpose to thank you publicly on this occasion, in such a way that she will not be able to hear, but I publicly thank the soul of this working group, this is Professor Dr. Brady Pogorlec. It was accompanied by a large group of dedicated experts, who were also removed from the preparation of this national programme without any special need, apology or thanks, and could have been different from the preparation of this national programme, nor would there have been any such failures as to refer to Article 17 of the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian, since it would have required the establishment of an inter-departmental body and claim that this is in Article 17, which is in fact Article 27. However, or precisely because only a few things will have to be overlooked and critically shaken when the resolution or even any amendments are completed, the Group of Social Democrats will also monitor very closely in the future the implementation of all the legal bases governing the use of language in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u78	Thank you, too. My colleague, Aleš Gulič, will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u79	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Minister, Mr Dular. Of course, each language is one of the most important tools in life. The first language has another additional quality, it is the language in which we are the only sovereign, the only place where we can move about with flexibility, the only place we can say everything we know, what we feel, what we understand, and the only language is the one that builds with us. This is, of course, the most important starting point when we talk about language in general. The national programme, prepared on the basis of or at the request of the Slovenian Public Use Act, thus provides a framework to ensure the status of Slovenian, an active language policy which would also include the care of providing legal basis for its use, to ensure continuous scientific research of language and language life - since it is not only a standard at all, it is not only a book language, but it is all the Slovenian languages, as far as they can be created in these five years as the national programme is supposed to monitor these matters. It talks about the dissemination of language options, as well as about development and the care of language culture. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, when we looked at the text, we read it, and the introductory and the central part, in some way we found that the text is only inappropriate for the resolution, that it is bad, that although the will to have a resolution on the Slovenian language is commendable and worthy of greetings, but not in such a way. In fact, already in the opening part, which I think is too extensive, in some parts very, very precise exactly cheerleading, and in some, a loose and somewhat "pismewuhovski" already in this introductory part, it is seen that the composers in some ways interfere with the fact that we are already living in the 21st century, not anymore in the 20th or 19th century. In fact, there is the origin of all these mistakes that the predecessors have talked about when the matter is set up at some point very diahrona, but on the other hand, language policy would also like to get involved in those matters that live their own lives, whether it is this modern "sms-sms" or what is going on in forums and so on. So when we have a kind of jargon, which goes also in a distinctly written form, and which isn't just connected to one group of residents, it's either as a lingo or as a slang, but it's becoming all-encompassing. This is so that life today is different from it used to be. Of course, we cannot agree with the proposaler who, during the evaluation of the situation for the language strategy, refers to as the threat of the Slovenian language community's severe nominal fragmentation, then demographic weakness, because we still believe that this diversity represents our entire cultural heritage; it is said not only the choir language, but also the dialects, including the slangs, even the argo and so on, all the way to personal speech, which is, after all, what we hear most of the time, and we must also take into account. The text then sees, as a weakness, the imbalance in learning English as the first or even the only foreign language, and the delay in digitising Slovenian texts, and a number of shortcomings in the existing law on the use of Slovenian, despite the shortcomings of the one preferred by the proposer, the previous proposal, etc. The drafter of this resolution also listed among the types of threats to Slovenian language the price of Slovenian books, the award of Slovenian citizenship on the basis of or on the basis of national interest, without language condition, etc. Thus, a number of matters that are not even part of the resolution, but also in that historic work, he was able to forget that the first debate on the subject of language policy was the debate in the National Assembly on the preservation or termination of the working group of the National Assembly on the issue of linguistic policy - and it was abolished. It was abolished even by hearing a simple statement that we could have a lecturer instead of her in the National Assembly. So that's supposed to solve the language policy. The proposer also touches on some utopian ideas. Utopic for these five years, of course. In fact, it says that one of the many opportunities is to standardise the Roma language. I would like to see the one who can standardize any language in this world in five years, even one that has a variety of variants, a subvariate and has a completely different tradition, especially verbally, and very few written traditions. I wouldn't talk about synchronizing movies. There's been a lot of talk about it. I don't think that's such a big deal. I think it's more of a problem if there's no choice. But modern technologies also carry this option with them, of their own choosing, if only publishers are filmmakers, so choose. However, it would be good to have some money saved here to have people, so Slovenians and Slovenians and foreigners interested in our language, free access to the electronic forms of normative texts of the Slovenian language; it is said that the spelling, the dictionary of the Slovenian book language, the vocabulary, is not limited to ten hits, but such that it can really be used. Or that the only company dealing with this in Slovenia would, however, be allowed or subsidized in some way so that these dictionaries would not be so damn expensive. etc., etc. I'm not going to owe you. According to the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the motion for resolutions was too superficial. Indeed we said, two and a half years was time, but time alone brings nothing, if, of course, at that time, the experts were not involved, if people were not involved, who, of course, also know something about modern language and who do not bind it so much to the nationality of the 19th century, then, of course, all this time was wasted. We will vote in the Liberal Democracy Club throughout the debate on the proposal: at least by our own wisdom, knowledge and knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u80	Thank you, too. Comrade Gulic, isn't it always? Comrade Gulic, isn't it always?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u81	[[...]] [[Not included.]] Sometimes it's just my conscience. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u82	Isn't it always crazy? Good. We continue the debate. Dear colleague Mrs Marjetka Uhan will give her position on the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Dear Minister with a fellow member, fellow Member and Members of Parliament, you are most welcome! In New Slovenia, we will vote in conscience, but let me say that we will all support this resolution on the national language policy programme mentioned by the law on the public use of Slovenian, and today this document is before us. The Republic of Slovenia has been practically since its independence, without national language policy. 15 years of independence have passed without a comprehensive and coherent language policy. The resolution before us, namely the resolution on the national language policy programme for the next five years, should at least partially fill this gap. The proposed resolution contains a brief historical outline of Slovenian language policy issues and then presents a language policy strategy with concrete objectives pursued. It focuses on four priority areas: providing legal basis for language use, scientific research on language life, language extension and language development and culture. In Nova Slovenija, we estimate that the resolution is well prepared to cover all key areas of language policy and define the objectives and objectives of how to achieve them, as well as the mandate holders, operators and possible financial resources. Slovenia undertakes to support the use of Slovenian also between Slovenians beyond its national borders and to disseminate the content expressed in Slovenia in the actual and virtual international space, thus enforcing its linguistic origin as an important component of European cultural diversity. It also addresses the languages of minority communities in its territory and the linguistic adjustments of persons with special needs with respect and respect. In Novi Slovenija we estimate that such a document is needed, as the Slovenian nation has maintained through history also because of its language. Slovenia's entry into the European Union has increased at least the symbolic role of Slovenian. Slovenia has become one of the 23 official languages of the European Union, which brings not only advantages but also obligations to Slovenia. It's the country that has to make sure that someone systematically deals with saying new words. We must be aware that we must use Slovenian in all spheres of society if we want Slovenian to be strengthened as a language. It is necessary to strengthen people's awareness that they will or will like to use Slovenian. The main problem we see in society is the internal indisunity or disunity of the Slovenians. We are all in favour of using the Slovenian language, but for the sake of the language we are not ready to give financial resources, nor are we ready to oppose foreign advertising, foreign words, which in particular have become domestic to the young generation and are self-evident in the negotiation. From this point of view, we also support the resolution on the national language policy programme in the New Slovenia Group. We support the measures it brings, and we want the resolution to really touch every citizen, to capture all areas of society and to make Slovenian the language of every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u84	Thank you, too. And colleague Mikhael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, respectable Mr. Dular, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we support the adoption of the national language policy programme ahead of us. In our opinion, we must adopt it as soon as possible, as this is also provided for by the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian in its 28th Article. It also requires its adoption of the European Union's political orientation. It is necessary to lay down measures for the performance of the tasks laid down in that Act and to provide for adequate resources for the next five-year period. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the timely adoption of this resolution primarily for the reason that we are in time to prevent the deterioration of the situation of Slovenian in the processes of European regionalisation. With Slovenia's involvement in the European Union, our language has indeed become equivalent to other European languages, but because of some processes its use in many areas has been limited or even disabled; in short, it can be said that the use of Slovenian in many processes and cases is no longer quite self-evident. In the modern world, in the processes of globalisation, a small market and a language spoken by few people can be endangered. This may also gradually jeopardise the role of the language in ensuring cultural and national identity, which is unacceptable to our party. Mother's language and our Slovenian culture have preserved the Slovenian people through a turbulent history and represent an irreplaceable value for us. The question is whether it is really necessary to require the use of a foreign language other than the official language of the Republic of Slovenia in the communication with the national authorities of the Republic of Slovenia and in the application of calls for tenders by the Republic of Slovenia, even in the field of culture and so-called national sciences. Surely this does not strengthen our self - confidence and national consciousness. In our view, this simplification of business is not acceptable. We can argue that we are often under-aware of the advantages offered by the possibility of expressing and communicating in motherhood. The position of languages used by few people warns that today even the very existence of many languages is at risk, and many of them are losing many functions. Although some of the matters covered by the 124 measures of this resolution are already regulated by some other already existing rules, we believe it is good that the national programme takes into account all the necessary measures, it covers them comprehensively, so that it will be truly effective and achieve the desired effects, following that well-known Slovenian proverb: better twice than never. We do not think that the explanation refers to the allegations of non-participation of Slovenian as a school subject, as indicated in this programme in Chapter Enlargement of the Language Capacities, in the 6th objective under point "j", and the institution of which is the Ministry of Education and Sport. It is generally known that all national languages experience the same fate in the school system - they are unpopular for students and students, and the Slovenian language is no exception. This is why, with positive measures and improvements in the lesson for Slovenian, we should raise more awareness of how rare the jewel is our mother tongue and how proud we can be of this value. In the school system and in the public, the responsibility to Slovenian as a mother tongue and as an official language should be strengthened in particular because of the awareness of the Slovenians' own identity. Too often it turns out that learning Slovenian does not give entirely satisfactory results, but this cannot be and must not only be the concern and task of Slovenian teachers. For an attractive lesson in Slovenian is an important program of compulsory reading, which is also the way and the way to literacy, especially reading the Slovenian book. It is therefore necessary to disseminate the reading culture and to popularise the Slovenian book, which is also mentioned in the eighth objective of this resolution. In particular, it is important to apply Slovenian in the new areas opened by technological development. It is necessary to speed up the digitisation of works of beauty and art and content online in Slovenian. When developing contact forms of language and communication, we should also take into account the need for quality bilingual dictionaries that would enable Slovenian speakers to have quality access to other languages. This would also strengthen their respect for the Slovenian language and their awareness of its wealth. We support, in the Slovenian People's Party, also the orientations in the Chapter Enlargement of Language Capability, as we have repeatedly warned in the Slovenian People's Party that it is necessary to act and develop functional literacy among citizens. We also support the amendments of the four coalition groups and the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service in order to set a deadline for entry into force. With these additional supplements, the national programme is certainly appropriate and will also be supported in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u86	Thank you, too. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the motion for a resolution. On the basis of the list of applicants, Member Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister, respected Dr. Dular. Today we are already much, and we will talk about taking care of Slovenian language, its use and its future and development. Right, we rarely talk about this in this temple, and of course the resolution should indeed be an extremely important document for all citizens and citizens, and this document should be comprehensive and, in my opinion, very close to people. This document sets out the objectives, measures, tasks and institutions in the field of our language policy in the next five-year period, if I may say so. I have to say that I have been over this document in some way - but I will explain in which - very disappointed. I believe that this is a document that was produced in academic circles, for academic use and for academic circles. This is not a document that would be approximate, if I say so, to an average citizen or citizen who could in some way lead to everyday use, for everyone who participates in a variety of areas where we touch our Slovenian language. And, of course, it comes to my doubts that these goals, these measures and these tasks will really come to all the carriers listed, that these carriers will actually apply them, "implement them into life" and that this will actually become part of some consciousness of all Slovenian citizens and citizens. I must say that in the past, I have been given the thought that in all these centuries, we had no resolution, and the Slovenian language has been preserved in all turbulences, under all the pressure, in all the problems. Of course, I do not mean to say that we do not need a resolution, but I think that the drafters of this resolution should nevertheless reflect on whether we need this resolution for all citizens of citizens or for such a resolution to need only narrow academic, scientific and research circles. In order to argue this, let me briefly state some of these things that have greatly disturbed me. For example, in the section on the evaluation of the situation of the language strategy, we can read among the threats in one of the indents the following text: "The scale of vulgar economics and thus disproportionate reinforcement in the utilitarian roles in the selection of language in the field of efficiency at the expense of its symbolic role in the sphere of individual identity at the level of cultural and ethnic origin." I must say that I had to work hard, hard, so that I could understand this or that I would say this and understand it. This should also be understood, I must say, by all other citizens and citizens. And that's not the only case. In this text, there are some words that I think we could really find appropriate and more appropriate expressions for them, especially the muzzle of certain complex relationships, which will certainly not contribute to the fact that this document is a document and lives among people. That way, I'll just list a few cases that fell into my eyes. Let's say "language hybridisation", "sexual extension", "interference breakdown", "limited code", then "contrasting with Slovenian" - this is supposed to be written in the standardization of the Romani language. Text that says "language cultural implications of broader social and economic processes" or the link "awareness of language interferences and contrasts". In short, I wonder whether it is really necessary that this text, this resolution on the national language policy programme, is full of words such as implications, contrasting, interference, hybridisation, extensibility and so on. It seems to me that I absolutely agree with my colleagues, especially with my colleague Gulic, that this text, which is probably perfectly solid, in terms of, I will say, in terms of some of the emphasis it has. However, this text is by no means a text that we could look forward to contributing very much to language policy in the next five years to change. If anything is going to happen in this area, it is likely that there will be a lot more to it than this, I will say, high-flying thoughts in this national resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u88	Thank you, too. Member Marko Pavlich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Nice greetings to Minister Simonita and Dr. Dular. Colleagues and colleagues! Last February, we celebrated the world’s World Day or International Mother’s Day in a different way each year. And on the eve of this day, I have asked the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a question within the meaning of Article 35 of the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian when the Government intends to adopt a resolution on the language policy ahead of us and, of course, also points out at the deadline of the adoption of this very important act. And this deadline, as already mentioned, expired on 20 August 2006. Of course, I would just like to point out that in laws and other regulations, but in particular in laws, we prescribe our hands obligatoryly. So, what we call "ius cogens" in law, not "ius possum." And if the Government does not respect these deadlines - and this has happened several times recently, for example, to mention legislation in the field of mutual insurance - then this does not only mean non-compliance with the law, but also a failure to respect the supreme branch of Parliament's power. I would therefore ask that in the future we respect these arms or prescribe them in an instructional manner, which means, I don't know, around or around this deadline. Speech is undoubtedly the characteristic of man and the characteristic of our planet. There are currently around 7,000 different languages in the world, and it is interesting to know that 95% of these languages speak only 4% of the world's population, only 4%, which means that 96% of the population on our planet speaks only 5% of the languages, which in particular highlights the subtlety of many smaller languages. And if we think of Unesco's information that every two languages die out a month and that half of all the world's languages are at risk, then we must also ask ourselves where our mother tongue is, where the Slovenian is, and how we must protect it - not just by regulations, but by government measures. I'd like to draw your attention to a few problems. The first is certainly the more dominant position of the English language from day to day. English is one of the 20 Indo-European languages spoken by 350 million people as a mother tongue and serves as an official language for billions and half, or exactly billions and 400 million people. Janez Gradišnik, for example, points out the uncontrolled intrusion of various English and American foreigners into Slovenian. We can listen to young people express themselves, sometimes it's pretty scary. Not only recently did I not hear these completely already domesticated expressions, like "ful", "cool" and not go into obscenity waters, but I also heard a friend advise her colleague to go "dog vocal" [["Walking"]] You can translate it for yourself. And by the way, such a foreign invasion might even increase by missynchronizing films. While David Crystal believes that foreign languages and the intrusion of different languages do not pose a threat to the language, he mentions English, apparently composed of 350 different languages or words in these 350 languages, but let me say that English is, of course, in a completely different position than Slovenian. Thus, we need to be on our own here as to what our language will be, not least in the temple of democracy. In recent times, however, French has also joined the English language. In fact, there is a campaign in the European Union to make French the only official legal language. And I think that enough of this discrimination, French is already a useful language or in practical application before the Court of Justice of the European Commission in Luxembourg, even before other authorities - and where is the equality of 23 languages? And what's interesting is the statement by the president of the European Law Association, "Comité pour la lanque de droit europeén", which reads as follows: "Italian was always a language of song, German philosophy, English poetry, and French is certainly the most accurate language in Montesquie." Yeah, well, who's the Slovenian guy? By Cankar, farmers and servants? I don't know. I would also draw attention to the functional illiteracy of the Slovenians and Slovenes - this is pointed out by the OICD in the latest study that we are on the tail of this, and I would also like to draw attention to my last initiative to the Government, which I proposed in November 2004 that the Government propose to the European Union the establishment of a new fund for the financing of experimental education for European awareness in secondary and vocational schools. I also cite some of the subjects that could be taken into account in this programme, but I would like to emphasise only one - the teaching of the Esperant. Many experts point out that he could have put esperanto, which is an artificial language but has been over 100 years old, in the same position as other European Union countries. A hand on the heart, any foreign language we speak to if we speak to someone who is native to him, an Englishman, a Frenchman, to whom we have never, ever been in an equal position, unless we have worked and lived in this foreign language for years and years. I will support the resolution myself, I think this is a big step forward. Of course, I have some concerns that I have been talking about, and I also share an opinion with some of my colleagues and colleagues, but of course now we have to take matters into our own hands and with our own example, with our own respect for our motherland, show people that we don't care what happens to the language that is spoken by about 2.5 million people at the moment, but the question is what will happen in 20, 50, 100 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Member Drago Koren has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u91	Nice greeting to the Members and Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, Dr. Dular. This proposed resolution on the national language policy programme is the result of the law on the public use of Slovenian. When I thought about whether we really need a resolution like that, I came to the conclusion that if we don't take care of it ourselves, no one else in this world is going to take care of it. The Slovenian people - we are small enough to be aware of this and that the impact of the globalised world and the intrusion of foreign languages into our space is very strong and that we must take care of it ourselves. I am sure that if he rests the Slovenian language, the Slovenian people will also die. I would not want the Slovenians to be on this path, but on the contrary; I would like this Slovenian language to be strengthened. Now that we are members of the European Union, when the Slovenian language can also be officially heard in these European institutions, it seems to me that it is all the more important that we work in this area to keep our language in shape and to take care of language development. For as the people live the organism, the tongue is also a living organism, which cannot cease to grow, but must grow. In my youth, I had the opportunity to serve the Yugoslav People's Army and many of us know how it was in the Yugoslav People's Army during that period when it was undesirable to meet the Slovenians together and speak in our own language. But it was already in our nature that we were given to do so and to do so and that we had agreed in the Slovenian language, although, as I said before, it was undesirable, if I did not say so, sometimes even forbidden. The Slovenian language is also a very difficult language. We have to admit that. If we ask students or students what is the hardest thing in school, they will probably say only two subjects: mathematics, Slovenian. And the effort to learn and to use this language properly and to pass it on to the next generations is not only at school, but also at parents or especially at parents and also at the entire Slovenian society. On this occasion, I wanted to say a word about the media. It seems very important to me that our media also use, I will say, a suitable Slovenian language, also suitable, for example, in various shows. I do not advocate that we should speak only in pure Slovenian at all times and everywhere, but I think there must be some order in this area. Earlier, someone - I think Ambassador Majda - mentioned the SMS that they had nothing to do with this resolution. Maybe they don't have anything to do with themselves, but I do have kids, and I get messages more than once. I think that we should all do something just to raise awareness that we also use Slovenian in texting, because what young people are now using is really not Slovenian. Nor will I be so strict as to say that now we should pressure that it must be 'washed', but that the cultivation of this awareness is that there is also somewhere where young people and adults are aware that for every spoken and written word, it is right that it is in a form appropriate to the environment, to the situation, I would also say to the year of age. I don't mind saying anything, but I've got to say that I could have a dictionary so that sometimes I can understand a message from my children. I will only say this, I think it must be our shared responsibility, and if everyone does little in this area, it is not a fear for the Slovenian language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you, too. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u93	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In particular, I thank the leadership of the National Assembly, which allows me to vote on this resolution, because, as a member, I do not have the right to vote in any of the working bodies of the National Assembly. One of the objectives of this resolution, and this is the development and culture of the language, would be to itself in this debate. In particular, the need for organised care of speech culture in Slovenian electronic media is highlighted in a sub-chapter and RTV Slovenia is defined here. However, I would point out here that with the help and electronic media it is more than obvious and also hearing how poor we are sometimes in the area of language development and culture, especially with regard to the spoken word. Also on the frequency of public RTV, which is supposed to be the main provider of speech culture in Slovenian electronic media, we need to listen to a variety of Latvians too often. We are witnessing an extremely careless attitude towards Slovenian, ignorance, non-controlling the basics of the Slovenian language vocabulary; in short, we are witnessing a real half-way in this area sometimes. Not to mention the underestimating attitude that various speakers display toward listeners and viewers, to an extremely large auditorium that would deserve anything other than that. And it is the public RTV that gives these speakers the possibility of public exposure and additional pollution of the language environment. I am aware that it is impossible to command administratively a more demanding attitude towards Slovenian and Slovenian spoken words, but it is really worrying that there are so many speakers from the television and radio waves who do not speak Slovenian at some appropriate level and who, if possible, still have a bit of speech error in the sky, who are professionally engaged in journalism, editing and so on. Well, I think that this problem needs to be recognised primarily by public RTV Slovenia itself, in Slovenia there are a lot of qualified people who can help public RTV do so, and in particular public RTV needs to identify these weaknesses itself and directly address them. This, of course, is not to be overlooked by the appropriate share of the responsibility for the worrying situation in the various political institutions and in us, the politicians themselves. Radio and TV Slovenia broadcast quite a share of meetings of the National Assembly and sometimes working bodies. What should then be heard by listeners and viewers of RTV Slovenia! So it appears to be self-inflicted. For the first force, it would be useful if we all learned the proper use of the dual, which we are so proud of. After we know how to use the parent properly, we may have a fifth inclination. Let me get this. With most of the objectives and tasks of this resolution, which we are addressing today, I agree, but I am aware that all of this will not be achieved and achieved if we are weak in what we call our love of Slovenian, respect for Slovenian, awareness that the language we speak and write also reflects our own level of culture and culture. In all of this, no resolution can do much to help, but it can still be useful to me. That is why I will support it, and I do not fully agree that the language used by the resolution should be somehow approximated. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Most of our people. [[...]] Don't make it sound too bad. I still think that a document like this would, but I should somehow raise some level and some standard. But probably with these comments that have been made here about some of the nonsense that has been used in the text, it cannot actually achieve that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u94	Thank you, too. I invite Ambassador Majdo Shirca to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Dular. Two or three questions besides what I have already asked in the introduction in some way in the form of a position, I would like to hear from you. Mr Minister, in response to the interpretation, you said that already the law on the public use of Slovenian, which was adopted in July 2004, is a paper tiger for you, quite useless and ineffective - I read what you wrote and that you will fix it sooner or later. I want to know, since it's not in your official government program, why and when you're going to do it or what it's in dispute with. But even if the resolution were not a paper tiger, it is said that we would not have those measures that we do not see today or we do not know how they can be implemented, I am interested in the concrete answer to the claim made by this resolution in chapter For a higher contractual culture in society. This is the 11th objective, where you state that in the context of tax reform you will increase the availability of Slovenian publications, books, CDs, cassettes and so on. In short, what change in the reform of the tax legislation of five years, which would increase the availability of Slovenian publications, books, CDs, cassettes, etc.? This seems to me to be a very important measure, and that I would not be a paper tiger, I would be happy to hear where this measure is going. Of course, as I say, I will also be happy if I get the answers you still have some time at your disposal - on this exposed part, I will tell them myself the bizarreness, but perhaps it is my misunderstanding of this document or the too many secrets it brings. In fact, I am interested in how you will, say, purely in the sense that the resolution will be operational and that there will be no paper tiger, as obviously is the law, how you will detect and promote the culture of SMS messages within the measures. What does it mean to reduce the extensive foreign language sections in Slovenian radio news broadcasts? What does a study on sexist extensiveness mean when it comes to gender versions? And of course what was also exposed - why didn't you use both forms for sex, male and female? How come you haven't touched these questions in this place? And last but not least, what was the disturbing parliamentary committee that was once in the National Language Policy Assembly, that this resolution no longer foresees it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, as you know, you can join the debate at any time. Just raise your hand and you'll get your word. The next on the list of applicants is Member Miro Petek. He's not here. Member Slavko Gaber has the floor. He's not here. Member Anton Kokalj has the floor. He's not here. And the next one has the word of Ambassador Eva Irg. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u97	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, Minister-in-Office, Honourable Dr. Dular, Member of Parliament and Members. I will be brief, but I would like to point out in particular that I think it is right, but above all it is essential that we have before us today a motion for a resolution on a national programme for language policy 2007-2011. In any event, this resolution, which must be given full attention, is of great importance to the Slovenian people and, as a result, to their culture. Previously, we could have heard in the debates of the debaters, in particular the groups of Members, that the basis for addressing this resolution in Article 28 of the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian is clear, and here again I would like to stress that within this article it is necessary to adopt a national language policy programme for the next five years and today the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is doing so and this is also an application. This, in my opinion, shows a particularly responsible attitude towards the Slovenian language and also to the language policy itself. The Ministry of Culture is well aware of the importance of protecting the Slovenian language in all segments of Slovenian society, after all, the Slovenian language - or every language, each nation has its own language - also the nation's greatest wealth. It is right that we respect it, that we keep it and that we live with it, and, above all, that we keep it, even more so because we have become a member of the European Union and we know that if we do not have the right language policy, we can lose ourselves among the others. Also because some nations are larger than Slovenian. What seems positive to me, however, what the European Union has given us within the language policy, is that when Slovenia entered the European Union, Slovenia has thus also been given the status of one of the official languages of this international organisation, and thus we are given the opportunity to speak equally among the other languages within the European Union. I would also like to point out that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already committed itself to the coalition treaty to strengthen the position of the Slovenian language; and today it is also doing so with this resolution. She also undertook to examine the appropriateness of the Slovenian language law, to correct it if necessary, to adopt amendments and amendments to this law, and clearly committed herself - and we can see that from the resolution on the national programme - that all government departments should participate in the consideration of language policy. I myself will support this resolution, as well as the other Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, mainly out of love for the mother tongue and also for the Slovenian language, because I think it is right for us to keep the Slovenian language and to know that it is still important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, dear Dr. Dular, colleague and colleague! I would like to start by saying that I have been pleased to monitor the creation of a resolution on the national language policy programme from 2007 to 2011. And this monitoring has also given me some pride. That is why I am sure and pleased that today the National Assembly is considering such a very important document for the Slovenian language, my mother tongue, and, of course, for the Slovenian people. I think it is extremely important that the four defined objectives or four areas in which the resolution is specifically focused. Let me repeat them again: for the first time, to provide legal basis for language use; for the second time, scientific research monitoring of language life; for the third time, language extension and for the fourth time, language development and culture. Let me once again say that people around the world have been worshipping their mother tongue for 8 years on February 21st. This day, of course, we celebrate the Slovenians, perhaps too proud. Slovenians who have been able to read books in Slovenian since 1550, when Primož Trubar with Katekizm and the alphabet justified the Slovenian book language. On this occasion, I would like to draw attention in particular to the increasing abandonment of Slovenian as a mother tongue. Despite the fact that there is an increasing emphasis on learning foreign languages, Slovenians in an increasingly globalised information society have the opportunity to exist and exercise their interests only if we are firmly converted to our own environment and its cultural tradition. And here is the great responsibility of this National Assembly, also with regard to the use of the Slovenian language. If we look for a moment after the Slovenians who live incarcerated and around the world, it is easy to see that the mother tongue is the incredible force that keeps them alive. Fears of foreign languages, especially before English, exist also in Slovenia, but are not new in Slovenian history. After the Slovenians were afraid of drowning in German until the end of World War I, and with it the Austro-Hungarians fell apart, they were thrilled to leave the Slovenian language and gradually take over the Yugoslav language, the so-called Serbian language, because they thought it would be best for the Slovenes. Today, Slovenian, like the languages of other smaller nations, is still struggling with its smallness, but it contributes to the diverse language image of Europe. The language image is also diverse in Slovenia. For national minorities in Slovenia, of course, the mother tongue is not Slovenian, but Italian or Hungarian. Let me conclude by saying that Slovenians do not have to blush because of the small number of people who speak Slovenian. For us, this day can be an opportunity for Slovenians to recall today's position of Slovenian, which is not only the official language of our country, but also one of the official languages of the European Union. Never before in history has our mother tongue enjoyed such status; that is, many reasons for our somewhat greater pride. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The resolution on the language policy programme is an important doctrinal document of this Parliament to allow for a comprehensively improved position of Slovenian in the public, as it is clear that, as stated here in the evaluation of relations for the language strategy, it is a core component of Slovenian national identity. And that's something you need to be very aware of. I remember an increase in awareness and interest in Slovenian language, the position of Slovenian language, which was once in the previous country for a long time also in some way taboo topic. With the affair About the Common Sails, when Slovenian writers and academics, or professors of Slavists resisted, the Slovenians resisted the aspirations created in Belgrade, the interest in the use of Slovenian, the position of Slovenian, and then the language judgment was established and so on. I am pleased that we now have a government that is also fully aware of this in the political field and that the adoption of a resolution is also working to make the situation ever better and clearer every day. See, I would like to say how important it is for this identity to be Slovenian, the mother tongue, the use of the mother tongue, in some way, to justify the case of Frenchmen, the French attitude towards their mother tongue and the consequences of such a relationship. Everyone knows that the French are extremely attached to their language, that in this extraordinary self-security they do not really recognize other languages, because they do not learn them, which is sometimes a weakness, but with some particular pride, they speak their own language. I think that, on the other hand, it is also the reason that they have an extremely national consciousness, which has not been expressed at the last moment in the two rounds of French presidential elections, which resulted in the exceptional participation of the French, 85% of the French's participation in the elections of the President of the Republic. This is something unimaginable for us and probably for a lot of other European people. But of course, there must be an example and a pattern for us, because there is a marked lack of civic education, in this context also of attitude towards the Slovenian language, and we are faced in the past years, a real system that some of the so-called left-wing liberal bloc have made fun of this, from the possibility of civic education, from a more positive attitude to the use of the Slovenian language and to that. It is also stated here in this strategy that the weaknesses are that the views of some Slovenian officials and public opinion makers are to the detriment of Slovenian - one of the weaknesses. I think that these weaknesses need to be addressed, as I said, by popularising Slovenian, Slovenian, Slovenian, Slovenian, Slovenian, and national pride must be built and built up. For this reason, I think that I would also resent what has been said here that this resolution is merely academic. It is logical that this resolution is the basis for those who will bring the attitude towards Slovenian closer to people to follow other acts. This resolution is both for research and political use and for academic use and for political use. We will build other instruments on the basis of this political will. Let me also say that this is one of the attempts to bring Slovenian closer to all Slovenian-speaking people and, in fact, I am sad that we are slowly implementing the law on the hearing and visibility of Slovenian language outside the borders of Slovenian homeland. In fact, there are some who certainly oppose this, because these measures are not implemented and a large part of our people of Slovenians in exchange still cannot listen and watch Slovenian programmes. And it is our common duty to enable them to do so as soon as possible in accordance with technical options. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. Today, it is now essentially ending the debate on an extremely important element that unites us, which has preserved and united us through the centuries, this is the Slovenian language. I think that this debate has many elements that have actually remained to some extent at least on the side, especially the fact that a very large part of the national body today lives abroad. I must therefore say that I see as a special quality this resolution the fact that it is precisely this part of the preservation of the Slovenian language and its further development that is given special attention during this part of the national body. I hope that when this resolution is put into effect, there will be no doubts, and then there will be a test for all of us. For the money for this, as I have already pointed out in the introductory part, is not determined today by the adoption of the resolution itself. This will be determined when we vote on the budgets. And by voting on the budget, for the budget that will contain all these elements that we are deciding today, of course, we will prove that we have taken seriously today in this debate, that it is not only that we keep and value the Slovenian language, but that we primarily preserve it for it and also develop it for it, because it is a central constitutional element of the nation, not only of the nation, but of the nation, the nation that founded its country. Today, as it was said, there have been many words. I think that much of the debate was very good, unfortunately in one part, as I said at the outset, we have not been able to avoid some attempts to banalise this problem. However, I firmly believe that only the implementation of this programme will show how much in the future can be counted on those who have supported it today, at least in their words, and how much someone has seen it differently - in the function of cheap obtaining political points, either with support or with a prior opposition. For some of the aprioral objections that were previously presented, I think they were so banal that it would be difficult to believe that it was not something other than the exercise of purely personal and political interests. And because of this, when we talk about the Slovenian language, about fundamental value, I must say that I regret this very much. However, I think that this negative attitude towards the Slovenian language, and above all the banalisation for political reasons, is nothing more than the continuation of the policy that we have witnessed in the past years, virtually everything since the independence of Slovenia forward, when it has tried to prove in every way possible how small Slovenia is, how it cannot survive, how insignificant it is, how war for Slovenia has actually been some opera. And I would remind you that the culmination of this story of contempt of the brightest point in its own history was certainly Slovenian independence, experienced this story at the height of the story of the so-called deleted. And that 94% of Slovenian citizens and citizens who attended the referendum said that such contempt of the bright points of our history that unite us was not determined. And I hope that this has made it clear at the same time to all those who want or try to banalise the issue of the Slovenian language, that they do not have any specific legitimacy for this work, and that Slovenians know that language is what establishes us, which preserves us and develops us together, develops us in our qualities, in our culture. And this is the kind of extradition that we can also offer to Europe. And I suggest that we do this with the highest possible degree of consensus - together.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u105	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! When I spoke earlier about the position of the Liberal Democracy, of course, I missed something and you saved it so that I could discuss it in the light of previous discussions. Well, it turns out that some of the things we've heard here today certainly don't belong in the area of language policy. But it was right that they were spoken. Just because we see how much language is, in fact, not only an individual form of consciousness, but also that we somehow recognize it as a collective form of consciousness. But here's a question that can't confuse us. It is already true, of course, that the language was the one that connected all Slovenians sometimes, but today we have Slovenians' country and language certainly not the only thing that connects us. Therefore, this attitude toward the tongue, which is, at some point, also purebred, certainly will not produce wise results. This is in some way to feel also from the resolution. I tell you that such attempts in the history of the defence of Slovenian language have already been very, very large. And I'm going to be a little bit more banal to make things clear. We didn't like the word "warzet," so we went to the Croats to pick her up and we called her "the pocket" but we didn't know it was the Turkish word "jeep". And we didn't like the "canon" because it was French, so we went to the Croats for a "top", which was also Turkish, etc. We've done business many times, but we've done business. We didn't like "shishba" if it was German, but from a little older German, we took a "chishpo", which is also German and more. So all these fears that we see today with this intrusion of English or any other language are, in fact, far outweighed. A lot of things are going to break in, but a lot of things are going to become Slovenian very quickly. We also move the "computer" quite nicely and we have it in unity, dual and plural, it is said that, as a word, it has become an integral part of the structure of the language and such an example, let's say that even in teaching that the Slovenian has very much power of content, acceptance of words from other languages and in fact nothing harms it. If we went to see what was going on, then we would see that certainly at least half of the words from some other languages came into Slovenian in one way or another, which is also normal, because we were getting objects from elsewhere, appearances etc., etc. But I wouldn't talk about it. What bothers me in this text is exactly what some are saying as a reason for us to accept it. It seems to me that the reason why we do not accept it is that the text, however, is left to lay down and that the profession, especially language, also theoretically-language, is deeper into the text itself. In fact, because of the love of Slovenian, because of the love of the nation, to the state, I think it would be good for this text to be much better prepared than it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u106	Thank you. The representative of the motion for a resolution shall also have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am pleased with most very encouraging and recognizable words about the need to adopt this, in my view an extremely important resolution that speaks of some kind of spiritual subset that sets us both as a linguistic, national and not least as a nation. Of course, I cannot be satisfied with some of the implementations and actually the malicious, malicious words of the Member - the social political workers, Mrs Shirca. In her introductory presentation, she spoke with words that it was a nimble way of saying that it was a bizarre, absurd, destructive direction, that it was police surveillance, that it angered her, that the Ministry of Culture wanted to remain quiet and similar. I'm not surprised at these malicious words, but they bother me so much because they suggest that the Ministry of Culture always wants to prepare something bad, so deliberately, which would actually harm all people. This is, of course, unacceptable and horrifying; in the end, this resolution went through all the verifications, i.e. between the ministries. So, it was supported by the Strategic Council for Culture, the National Council for Culture, adopted on the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, held a two-and-a-half-year debate, and has been intense for the last half-year, and I am surprised that in such an important document as the resolution, which is the fundamental thing that sets us up to have people come forward at the last minute and to be troubled in such a way that it would not be necessary to adopt it. With such a document, I really express the thought that such talk is completely irresponsible and inappropriate. With regard to Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem, I would say that her sincere, expressive, simple thought, often used, was in place so much that she spoke of the foreigners being used and that the language used in the resolution was foreign and unknown. I would just say this, the Resolution on the National Programme for Language Policy, as I said in my opening act, when I was on the Ministry when we talked about the National Programme for Culture, has a resolution, which is: one, two, three, four, five words that are foreign. The resolution on the national language policy programme has only the word "for" and "language" in Slovenian. So I think that this resolution should be supported, I think that this resolution came with a certain delay also because the previous authorities have shown no great interest in developing language and that the sector for Slovenian language, in fact, lived, had only two employees and only the Ministry of Culture is appropriate, including the staff, enriched this section so that it could also draw up an appropriate resolution. Of course, it seems logical to me that a dispersed society, a political society that is present here, logically if it has not previously been inclined to strengthen the Slovenian Language Sector, will not, of course, now support the resolution. And I think it's worth supporting, because she's carefully and well and responsiblely prepared. Now all I'd ask is a colleague to give his own thoughts.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u108	Here you go, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u109	Thank you very much. One of the main initials was to adopt this resolution with great delay. It has just been explained that this resolution started to be intensively prepared only a year and a half ago, after I was personally burdened by some of the many routine works within the Slovenian Language Sector, with its reinforcement I could then address these words. In the public, now in the last month in fact, out of the 124 proposed measures, as has been said, have raised the greatest, in fact the only attention I think has been given to the marginal proposal in terms of the whole peripheral, on synchronisation. In the media, things kind of inflated, like I don't know what the problem is, scaring the Slovenian public, like it's going to be an absolute synchronization, as it was said, of all the movies and so on, the instigation, frontal and so on. Although there is a very modest formulation, a soft formulation of some experiments and I wonder why such fear. Are there any interests behind those who are now making subtitles or are there really naked political objections or what? I don't see any rational explanation for that. Especially not about this, see, in this case it is not specifically about what is often revealed to me in person and in the resolution and what else is it only about some defence of the Slovenian language. On the contrary. We are offensive here, and Slovenia wants to establish itself in some new areas, and social and technological developments that it has not so far occupied and it is right to occupy them. This is also clearly stated in the principles, where it is said "to set goals and objectives, to lead mainly to linguistic creativity and to the self-confidence and insurmountable application of Slovenian in all the traditional and new areas of linguistic use, which are opened up by spiritual, social and technological development". That's why it's also about synchronization, and no one has to be afraid that now it's frontal. [[?]] We insist that this will be a major new practice. Opponents of synchronisation experiments stress the authentic foreign talk of film persons as an important component of the aesthetic integrity of film art and therefore advocate a solution with subtitles. This reason is in principle very serious, and I recognize it has its weight, but at the same time I would point out that in practice it loses a lot of its weight. Why? It turns out to be less important in many, majority, in fact, artistically unambitious films. We know that many movies on TV and in cinemas are not even artistic achievements, but it is a naked party, so to speak, sometimes quite bad. And it is not, therefore, any defilement of high art in such a case if there is synchronization or any criminal or such. The second weak point of solution with subtitles is in their impoverishment, namely, these subtitles are not a complete text, which is actually spoken by players, but is a very poor text - the dialogue of the list. Everyone realizes that the rumor is so fast, it can't be followed by subtitles and they can't narrow it down. When the importer receives a foreign film, he gets these reduced dialogues and only translates these dialogues into subtitles. It is said that the aesthetic integrity of the film is already affected by subtitles. Nevertheless, despite this impoverishment, these subtitles are still so long that it is difficult to follow them even in fast reading and not only that, they usually cover the lower quarter of the film screen or the lower quarter of the screen and significantly interfere with the artistic component of the aesthetic integrity of the film’s art. What we have from this argument with the integrity of film art, when it turns out that we don't reach it either with subtitles and I admit, or with synchronization not completely, it's two exits in force, each of these outputs has good and bad sides, in the world they're in need of both ways and people have, as has been said, a choice, but with us there's a big hall already because someone suggested an attempt to at least at the trial level to come up with this option to see Slovenians at all. I think there should be a lot less excitement in this relatively peripheral thing. All I'd say is, if I could just say for a minute, about SMS culture. See, SMS is the latest phenomenon of Slovenian development and between tasks and goals is the scientific monitoring of language life, it is said all the news of this too, in which there is a lot of bad, many good, as our colleague Marko Stabej, a linguist, says, this is like manure where some chemical processes happen [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. Dular. Lock up the thought. Thank you, Dr. Dular. We have concluded the debate with this. As no amendments were tabled to the motion for a resolution, the assembly will take a decision on the motion for a resolution, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, today in the context of the half-hour vote, which is at 5 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Please take your seats and calm down. Thank you. We are moving to the vote of the assembly on the Proposals for Decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. We continue with the interrupted 10th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways for 2007. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on agreement on the annual road development and renewal plan for 2007, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees on the annual road development and renewal plan for 2007 adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its 113th regular meeting, on 15 March 2007. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 64 for them, against no one. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the national language policy programme 2007-2011. Since no amendments have been tabled to the resolution, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. In doing so, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that, because of the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 2. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 14th item of the agenda - Mandating-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The Group of Members and Members of the Social Democrats Group presented to the Assembly a proposal for a candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly to propose to the Assembly that Dr Mark Pavli, MP of the Social Democrats, be elected Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the candidates, Mr Miran Potrč, to explain the application. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. On 27 March, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Rules of Procedure, as the largest opposition parliamentary group proposed to the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Mark Pavli. Dr. Mark Pavliha has been a doctor of legal science and professional and politically successful in his work, as he has been known for two and a half years by the leadership of the National Assembly. On 29 March 2007, at the conclusion of the previous 26th meeting, we proposed, on the basis of an agreement between the parliamentary groups, that the decision on the Vice-President should be postponed for a period of time when the College, on the basis of an agreement between the parliamentary groups, would also draw up a proposal for the allocation of leadership and leadership positions, cities and leadership functions within the framework of the working bodies. The President did the same under our agreement on 24 April 2007. I was convinced that our agreement was still in force and that today, as last time, the President of the National Assembly would propose the postponement of the vote to a time when the College would also draw up other proposals for decisions. When I examined the decision before the President of the National Assembly, he informed me that the vote on the proposal would be today, unless the Group of Members of the Social Democrats proposed or requested otherwise. As a group of Members, we are critical of the procedure by which, following the withdrawal of the 12 Members and Members from the LDS Group in the National Assembly, we were convinced that the proposal by the President of the National Assembly was followed up and that we were not withdrawing this proposal. However, and especially because more than a month and a half of 12 Members and Members have been unable to carry out an essential part of their functions as Members, the Colleges of the National Assembly, which, in our opinion, is competent not to take a decision on this matter by vote. For a while, we still believed that the necessary agreement was really about to be reached in a short time, and now we are not sure. We have therefore, at first, considered that the agreement of coalition and opposition parliamentary groups on the simultaneous resolution of all three human resources issues is useful, and today we believe that we must test at least the proposal we formally have to make, that is, that we also elect the Vice-President of the National Assembly from a number of the largest opposition parliamentary groups. We note that the agreement of the parliamentary groups is delaying and that the college does not approach the decision-making process, even though it could or would in our opinion be its duty. Therefore, we do not want to contribute to the unconstitutional position of the National Assembly with our proposals. One seat of Vice-President for the largest parliamentary group is not a formality, we believe, but an essential element of democracy and the role of the opposition in the National Assembly. We therefore take note of the decisions made by the President of the National Assembly and, despite the expectation that we may be able to join another Member and a Member who is not present today because they are abroad, we believe that we will be together - and that the presence of Members and Members also shows us - can provide the necessary quorum for the election. The responsibilities for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly are not limited to one parliamentary group, but rather to the National Assembly as a whole, especially a coalition which can and should, by its majority, ensure respect for the rules of procedure and the rights of the minority in the National Assembly. We therefore propose to the National Assembly to elect today from the largest opposition parliamentary group for the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Dr Mark Pavli. In our opinion, the proposal has been corrected. We all know Dr Mark Pavliha's abilities and work so far, his consistency and objectivity, so I believe that all Members and Members of the coalition and the opposition will be aware not only of their formal right to decide on or against what certainly exists, but also of their obligations to respect the Rules of Procedure, by which the largest group of Members must have one Vice-President, and certainly of what it proposes. The Group of Social Democrats therefore proposes that this be Dr Mark Pavlich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u113	Thank you. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Sašo Peče will speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u114	Your Honors are here! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, all Members and Members present will support Mr Pavlih's proposal for Vice-President of the National Assembly. The justification is simple and very clear. According to our assessment, he has already proved to be one of those who can lead the meetings of the National Assembly and from this title we trust him to carry out this function in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr Jože Tanko will speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Well, if you'll excuse me from the pay phone, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words and all your colleagues in the hall have a very nice greeting! First of all, I must express my disappointment at the proposal, which, by insisting on the decision on the Vice-President of the National Assembly, violates the agreement reached between all the parliamentary groups. Then, I don't know, a month ago, we agreed to decide on the proposals when everyone will be fully coordinated and possibly also unanimously supported. The fact is that, as already colleague Potrce said in the presentation, this harmonisation has not taken place. I would also like to say that this harmonisation was not caused by the coalition, but mainly by the opposition. The situation that has arisen at this time in the National Assembly is solely due to developments in the opposition, due to events in the former largest opposition party, Liberal Democracy. The coalition was not involved in this situation and in this process of restructuring the division of the parliamentary group in no way, the process was more or less spontaneous, because it is obvious that the concept on which the opposition to this coalition and this government was based has collapsed and the good results of the part of the coalition are clearly the main cause of the division in the Liberal Democracy Group. The opposition, this must have been acknowledged, took a relatively long time to come together to draw up an appropriate proposal. It should be said that only on 2 April did we receive a proposal from the College for a new division of seats and managerial functions in the National Assembly. This was a coordinated proposal of four opposition groups. However, the fact is that this proposal contained solutions or in some way a "Southern" way of sharing jobs and functions, because out of 100 they have made 104, and the essence of the problem is to continue to have this proposal coordinated in some way. The coalition reacted relatively quickly, and on 10 April we sent in a process of coordinated proposal in which we fully heeded the proposal made by the opposition, which is to say that we listened to those 104 votes and from 10 April onwards we can count as the date from which the coalition in some way directly intervened in the resolution of the problem in the National Assembly. There were still a few ten days of vacations left in between, so in fact, to report to the coalition that the opposition's proposals were not heard was at least incorrect. Let's just remember the things, the coordination that the leader of the current largest parliamentary group needed essentially a week to meet with his president to harmonise his proposal. Indeed, of all this process, this process of division in the National Assembly took the opposition almost two months to draw up a coordinated proposal and put it into practice. I must say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we are ready to engage constructively. After all, in all the proceedings we have tried so far, we have tried to resolve the situation without interfering in any way with the internal problems of the opposition or, above all, in the greatest liberal democracy. In fact, I do not think it is wise for the current largest opposition party to put forward a proposal when the actual coordination or agreement is not fully achieved, it has a great disadvantage, no seats are allocated, no functions are distributed in the National Assembly and in fact the largest opposition group has taken on the challenge or responsibility for the vote in the National Assembly. Personally, I also think that somehow the problem is that we do not have a proposal today to meet the so-called women's quota. This is a proposal or situation where, in the biggest opposition party and also others with a lot of words to say, there is always a lot of debate where it is necessary to recruit special jobs, a woman's quota and to advocate for women's rights to debate on equality and gender equality, but when there is a possibility and when such a proposal could be put to the vote in the National Assembly, we do not get such a proposal surprisingly. We will carry out our task in a responsible manner, alone or within the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. We are aware that the largest opposition group in the country belongs to one city, one Vice-President and we will be responsible for this proposal, as I have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr Miran Potč will speak on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, you all know that the debate of the Group is not about controversy, so I will be silent and thank you very much for the opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will speak on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Respectable candidates, distinguished candidate, Dr. Mark Pavlich. First, I must express my disappointment on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Indeed, at one of the consultations of the leaders of all the parliamentary groups of this National Assembly, with the President of the National Assembly, we agreed to Mr Tsukjati, it was a gentleman's agreement that I believed to date that we would be solving the changes in the National Assembly in a package. I can see that this agreement has not been valid since this moment. As for the candidate, I must say that I personally respect him. Dr. Mark Pavliha has important references in the scientific sphere, a lot of political experience, but the problem is that Dr. Mark Pavliha failed or deceived his electorate. The October 2004 voters elected Dr. Mark Pavli on the LDS list. This is particularly important to highlight in the Slovenian electoral system on the list of LDS. We do not recognize the restructuring or transformation of the National Assembly on the basis of some arrangements, negotiations, promises. We recognize the image of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia only and only on the basis of the result of the elections. For us, the elections are the sacraments of democracy. Indeed, one can laugh at it, but the one who claims otherwise. We will certainly respect this, too, although it is not at the will of the voters that the SD is today the second largest opposition parliamentary group. If we ask voters again, with the October 2004 anniversary, it's still LDS. And in the New Slovenia Group, we cannot be rewarded with the role of Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, an MP who cheated on his constituents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u121	Thank you. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr Barovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I propose that, with all the words spoken, which are of much truth or of no truth, we finally begin to deal with the legislative branch of power with our work, but not to deal with ourselves and with resentments and three pussies. There's only a good year ahead of us until the next election. We have before us the Presidency of the European Union, which we have requested, at the time of entry, all of us, in the vast majority, and a great responsibility. We have before us state affairs, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and countless laws that we have to deal with and adopt and stress once again, only a good year until the next elections. Such content as we are solving in a democratic way, we are trying to solve in a democratic way, in other European countries or democratic countries, we are causing early elections, the dissolution of Parliament, etc. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Marko Pavliha was and is a representative of the opposition, his decision is where he is going and the voters will decide whether this transgression is good or bad for him or not. Today we decide on the position of Vice-President of the National Assembly. Mr President of the National Assembly has and will have enormous obligations. Mr Sašo Pece, who, because of his lack, has much more work there, and perhaps he would be very helpful in this task force, does not have enough time to help here. Mr Klavora is also working hard and working, and not least, Mr Marko Pavliha has done the right work of the Vice-President of the National Assembly and should be held until the next elections in the same quota, in the same way as the opposition Vice-President, two opposition positions, until the end. But let's start dealing with the laws that are still ahead of us, accept them, be aware of our obligations, and work for the good of this country, for the good of this people, not for politics, not for politics, not for the last time, forgive me, seven, eight years I've been here, but I'm not stupid, I'm not stupid, but now I really don't know what this is all about anymore. Last but not least, we love the vice president today. Let us be sure that the National Assembly, as the first branch of government, will work smoothly! He's got experience, he's a conscientious and hardworking man, he's got an education. And finally, what's wrong with him, with the voters, with the thrones, that's up to the voters, not us. I am personally in favour of Mr Pavliha continuing his work as Vice-President and of this National Assembly working normally further.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members! I'm not gonna say anything new. I've said it before. I do not agree with these transitions, simply for this reason, because I was once a member of a party where the Member who has crossed has fundamentally changed the political situation. This was Mr Cyril Pucko, who also took my votes to Mr Drnovšk. Of course, I did not agree with this and even today I do not agree with this violation of some of my colleagues. It seems to me that it has become very modern in this House to change the seating order. Every time I come, I see some changes and some Members of the once largest LDS party, you change these seats in Parliament as underwear. This does not seem good to me and, of course, is not appropriate for some reputation of the National Assembly. It is true, Mr Barovic, that in other countries they resolve this differently, in a different way. They have special benches for members who have crossed, and they will even go to elections for offenders in Ukraine. With us, however, Dr. Pavliha is highly subdued, on a level, but in his place, I would not go for this vice-presidentship, in the fact that he has crossed over. [[...]] You wouldn't, no. Here we have heard that the SD is the largest opposition party, but, respected colleagues, not at the will of the electorate, but at the will of the perpetrators. You are not the biggest opposition party at the will of the electorate, that is a fact. And if your President Pahor is sending those we warn to confession - because I read this in an interview in the Styrian week, then in the last issue I would recommend that it be possible for him to go on his own. I'll get it over with. I would not like to define myself for certain statements, both Mrs Shirca, Mr Lahovnik and so on. So, I've been in this House long enough to know where the dog is praying and where all these people are going and where this is going. The only way I can do this is if it's a secret vote, I'm not voting for Dr. Pavli. Maybe I'll do what the LDS Members once did to make them pass by so they didn't go to the vote at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Mr President, your distinguished presence. I think that we are going to vote on a person today, not a party - that is the first thing and I think that the person proposed as Vice-President of the National Assembly is very good. You all, however, who are wondering about the transgressions, remember how Mr Bayuk came to power, with two transgressions, if you remember correctly. And when you flatter yourself that the opposition has fallen apart in any way, because of your good work, I tell you that if you want to do so in April, there was no rain because of your good work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat has the word, Mr Sok. I was warned you weren't named, quoted. Mr. Horvath is giving up, Mr. Tanko is giving up. Does the motioner want a word? Mr. Potch? No, no, no. Since there are no more reports of debate, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the Commission, composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Franc Jazbec, Matjaž Han, Rudolf Moze and Martin Mikolič. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting on the commission. The vote is under way. 65 Members and Members are present. He voted 65 against no one. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by the word "ZA" or "PROTI" on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clearly visible. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate will be elected if the majority of all Members and Members vote for him, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the hall, in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed ballot in the voting box, which will be in the Chamber, at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament and Members to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 5.40 p.m. and will last until 17.50 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. We'll continue the meeting at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-07-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're continuing our session of the National Assembly. Minutes on the outcome of the vote for the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on 7 May 2007. 64 ballots were distributed, 63 votes cast, 7 votes invalid, 56 votes valid, 32 votes in favour, 24 votes in favour. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, he was not elected Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Marko Pavliha, by a majority of the votes of all Members. In the absence of a sufficient number of votes, the proposed candidate shall be re-elected on the basis of Article 196 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly and the voting procedure on the basis of a new application. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 27th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you for participating.
