ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u1	Good day and a nice greeting, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 29th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I inform you that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: colleague Stanislav Brenčič, Victory Jelinčič Plmeniti, Aurelio Juri from 3 p.m. on, mag. Vasja Klavora from 3 p.m., Willy Rezman, Bojan Starman and Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. We're moving to nine. Period of the day - Second defense of the proposed tonnage tax. I'm informing you that we have at our disposal 40 minutes for this point. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and honourable Members! The basic purpose of the proposal for a tonnage tax law is also to consolidate Slovenia's position as a maritime state with tax policy in order to support the development of the maritime economy, to ensure better conditions for maritime development and its competitive performance on the global market. This is also provided for by the Resolution on the Maritime Direction of the Republic of Slovenia and the Resolution on Transport Policy of the Republic of Slovenia. These objectives will be achieved through the implementation of the tonnage tax. The bill introduces a selective form of tax, which means that legal persons operating with ships in international navigation will be able to choose whether to pay a tax on the income of legal persons or a tax on the tonnage of ships. One reason for proposing this law is that more and more ships can be registered in open or international registers of so-called countries. These countries, which have entries such as Panama, Liberia, Marshall Islands, Mauritius, have lower taxes than those in the Member States of the European Union. Also because of such a favourable tax environment, European companies register their ships in the ship registers of these countries and transfer the headquarters of companies from European countries to beneficiary countries. In international law, there are currently no effective legal remedies against such tax competition. In these circumstances, it means establishing a favourable tax environment to prevent the transfer of shipowners' seats to third countries. This would also result in an irreparable loss of maritime knowledge and jobs in the maritime sector in Slovenia. The Community guidelines on State aid for maritime transport have also been taken into account in the drafting of the proposal for a law. The European Commission considers such a form of taxation to be State aid, which it also allows under specific conditions. This tax aims to achieve the following objectives: to promote safe, efficient and environmentally friendly maritime transport, to encourage the re-entry of ships into Member States' registers, to contribute to the integration of the maritime economy in the Member States and to preserve the overall competitiveness of ships, to preserve and develop maritime knowledge and to promote the employment of European seafarers. The tonnage tax is also introduced in European countries. For example, in the Netherlands, Germany, the United Kingdom, Spain, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Belgium, France, Italy and Greece. In the Republic of Slovenia it is introduced by this law. With the introduction of the tonnage tax, the tax burden on shipowners will be more favourable and will allow shipowners to pay the tax evenly, irrespective of the current situation on the maritime market and maritime activities. Shipowners will thus be able to invest effectively in new technology and equipment. This is also supposed to increase the fleet. Your Honor! The Republic of Slovenia, with its favourable geographical position, represents an environment where important European transport flows cross. The importance of the Slovenian sea, the importance of Slovenian shipowners and the development of other activities related to maritime activity is highlighted by the possibility of developing the shipbuilding in Slovenia. The maritime economy is subject to major cyclical fluctuations. Periods of conjunction are usually followed by periods of recession. Income changes after individual years, including by 300%. This revenue also depends on the amount of the tax. In economic years, shipowners pay high taxes, while they do not pay them in crisis years. The tax on net tonnage of ships will be the same in all years, regardless of the results and the economic environment, if the number of ships and their net tonnage does not change. With net tonnage taxation, shipowners will be able to invest in new purchases. One new ship means directly at least 30 new jobs. In addition, it has a indirect impact on the employment of marine personnel. Your Honor, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing to the National Assembly that the proposal be supported by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Willi Trofenik, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! At its 27th meeting, on 6 June, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a tonnage tax law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and acceptance by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the proposal of the law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative technical aspect, was also given prior to consideration of the proposed law. The Legislative and Legal Service made specific comments to Articles 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 10, 12, 13, 15, 21, 24, 25 and 26 of the proposal. Some of those comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, namely Articles 2, 3, 4, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 24, 25, 26 and 29 of the draft law. In the complementary explanation of the law, the Government representative presented in more detail the basic objectives and individual solutions in the law by which we introduce a new way of taxation in Slovenia. In doing so, the representative of the applicant highlighted the fact that Slovenia, by means of the Resolution on the Maritime Direction of the Republic of Slovenia, was defined as a maritime State and that the law was prepared in accordance with Community guidelines on State aid for maritime transport. In presenting its opinion on the proposed legal solutions and the amendments tabled, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the amendments tabled partially follow the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. In doing so, it raised the issue of the real value of the tax burden, which is governed by the amendments in accordance with the Tax Procedure Act, and the issue of the limitation of the tax liability, and drew attention to the decisions adopted by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. It also pointed out the issue of the uncertainty of the date of application of the law and announced the editorial correction of Articles 3 and 4 of the draft law. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee considered the amendments tabled by the coalition groups by 2, 3, 4, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 24, 25, 26 and 29 and adopted all the amendments referred to in Article 26 and, following a prior notification by the representative of the proposer, that it agreed with the amendments tabled. The discussion highlighted the specific provision of Article 19(1) with regard to the calculation of the daily tax base for the calculation of tonnage tax with a net tonnage of more than 25 thousand tonnes for which the amount of 0,25 euros per day was proposed for 100 net tonnes. That tax burden was exposed in particular to the competitive aspect of the tax burden in neighbouring Italy, where this burden was expected to amount to 0.20 euros per day for 100 net tonnes. The representative explained that the proposed solution had been prepared on the basis of the average values published by the European Commission and the data did not cover neighbouring Italy. As the European Commission will assess our legal solution and decide on the granting of consent, the level of tax burden in neighbouring Italy will need to be verified by the plenary session. Since the proposed Slovenian law is more favourable than the Italian tax on lower tonnage ships and since 22 ships of the Slovenian shipowner belong to the middle class, Italy is not supposed to compete in the decisions of the shipowners to register in Italy or Slovenia. Following a discussion on Article 29 in accordance with Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee adopted an amendment to replace the number 0.25 in the table in paragraph 1 with the number 0.20. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on the individual articles of the law and adopted all the articles and prepared, pursuant to Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure, the additional text of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic will give the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u6	Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the European Union Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! It is right that, within the framework of the existence of the Republic of Slovenia in Europe, we should engage in efforts not to see European shipowners in registers of third, fourth, fifth countries because Europe is so much more expensive. It is correct that the competent ministry has made an effort to prepare a proposal for the Tonage Tax Act. In the Slovenian National Party, we support this intention. In doing so, I must draw the attention of the distinguished representatives of the Ministry to a few facts. The first fact is that we have been warned that in Italy, which is our neighbouring EU Member State with which we share the same sea, is comparable and competitive and that their amount is lower. The second fact is that it was accepted by the Committee on Finance in order to obtain data on the level of taxation in Italy in particular. I expected us to get that information. It's not about being obnoxious, it's not about anything. It's the comparability of the data. It is correct that the Committee has decided and adopted the amendment to Article 19 to replace the number 025 with the number 0,20. I, the distinguished representative and representatives of the Government, expect this information to be obtained and we will be clear where we are and what we want. However, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I cannot go beyond the duplicity of this Government. Why the duality? Because, on the one hand, we are trying to help ourselves, the Slovenians and Europeans with the proposal of the Tonage Tax Act to be comparable to the other countries. On the other hand, at this moment, respected colleagues and colleagues, there is a sale of the General Sailing Piran on which I was, and even though I am home from Trbovlje, I am proud of that, even proud. To the Slovenian company, to the Slovenian company. On the one hand, we want to be gentle and favorable, taxing our ships to third countries so that we can be proud of where we are and what we are. However, we are peacefully selling the only Slovenian proud maritime company. We're fighting neighbors for having our own sea, even though we don't have enough. But we're fighting. We fight that our sea is ours. And we're fighting that our ships, even though they're small, will survive. But in parallel, when we do this marriage, let it be sold peacefully. And what's even worse is that the man who fights for it on behalf of this country gets even a "fas" lawsuit on our behalf. I don't understand this duality, as I did yesterday in comparison to the tobacco law. Are we fighting to maintain, on the basis of the financial tax that will preserve the desire, the desire that Slovenian ships will be? At the same time, we sell Slovenian ships. I don't understand anything about that. Do not say that this is not the content of this law because it is not true. This law is equally and substantively linked to desire. What helps us if we lower taxes on Slovenian shipowners? And who will the Slovenian shipowners be if we sell the General Sailing? Who are they going to be? I mean, this is total nonsense, which is in this National Assembly, because I respect all my colleagues and colleagues, I don't understand anymore. But I could be the one who doesn't understand anything. And you all understand everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u7	My friend Barovic, thank you. Comrade Skull, I see you want procedural. And I'm just asking you, can we do the presentations to the end or do you want to do it now? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, my friend! For two days now, we have been in a situation which the Rules of Procedure do not allow for the meeting of the assembly to take place on the one hand, on the other hand, of working bodies. We don't know where we can work. Our colleague, who should be at the meeting of the working body at this time, must also sit here and present the views of the parliamentary group. From the point of view of the Rules of Procedure, this is inadmissible. Mr Vice-President, I therefore propose that you suspend the meeting and we agree with the President of the National Assembly on how to proceed. That's not how it works. This is a business impropriety. The Transport Committee discusses very important issues. That's what the National Assembly is supposed to decide tomorrow. The opposition cannot participate and I do not know how we can make quality decisions in the National Assembly. This is a situation that requires immediate action from you and the President of the National Assembly to agree on how to proceed. Otherwise, I don't know, maybe with obstruction measures you'll have to show that things have gotten out of hand. I speak as the head of the choir.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much for your proposal. As you probably know, the College of Presidents of the National Assembly decided on Friday on the date of this meeting. I know that all Members of this meeting are very busy. We start at nine. The meeting was scheduled to be closed at 24 hours after the scheduled meeting. But the fact is that the forecast of the time of individual parliamentary groups, all of them, just requires all of us to give as much as we can. I wish we didn't predict obstructions in the Liberal Democracy Club. However, if you insist, I will put your procedural proposal to the vote. Personally, however, I think it was more reasonable for us to continue with the points, at least as regards the presentation of the views of the groups in question. But the fact is, we won't meet with votes until this afternoon. Given the quality of the content you offer, I'll give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u10	Mr Vice-President, this is not about presenting the views of the groups of Members. It is an unsustainable situation that it is impossible to expect Members to, on the one hand, represent the views of the parliamentary group at the assembly and, on the other hand, to participate in quality meetings of the working body. This is explicitly prohibited with the Rules of Procedure. And my suggestion is for you to stop this session right now and make it clear. There is no need to vote on this. This is not about the President having to interpret the Rules of Procedure. In these situations, the Rules of Procedure are perfectly clear. If you don't see it, you're basically violating the Rules of Procedure. If you force us into a situation where we have to vote on this, it means that you are simply not prepared to respect the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Vice President, I know you didn't bring the National Assembly into this situation. But right now it is. I propose that this be terminated and that you agree with the Chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications on how to proceed. That's it. There are no conditions for the work of the National Assembly. That's what you need to find out.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u11	My colleague, School, as I say, personally assess that the meeting of the National Assembly is much more important than the meeting of the working body and that it would be reasonable to invite the president of the working body with your invitation or that your addressant is calling. I will not take your procedural proposal into account in this basic argument. I believe that professional services and all those involved must be kept in preparation for the work of the National Assembly. No, I will no longer give the floor to procedural proposals, not to you, not to my fellow Squirrel, but we will continue to present our views. Rudy Veršnik has the word. I request a presentation of the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! With the Tonage Tax Act, the government has again listened to the economy and adapted legislation to the needs of shipowners. The bill provides that the taxpayers, i.e. in our case the shipowners, may choose to pay a tax on the income of legal persons or to establish a tax base for the payment of the tax under the provisions of the Law on the Income of Legal Persons. The base here is the difference between income and expenditure. Or according to the provisions of this proposal, the tax base is multiplied by the number of vessels operating each ship during the tax period. The applicant shall state several reasons for such a proposal. Firstly, the competition of so-called beneficiary countries, as is known to all Panama, which offer ships very favourable tax conditions if registered in their registers. In international law, there are currently no effective legal remedies against such tax competition. Secondly, the maritime economy is subject to major cyclical fluctuations. The period of conjugation is followed by crisis periods. Incomes vary up to 300% after each year. This revenue also depends on the amount of the tax. In economic years, shipowners pay high taxes, while in crisis years they do not pay, which is a major problem in their business, as they cannot invest in the renewal of their fleets during the years of the conjuncture. Thirdly, encouraging the development of the maritime economy and the employment of seafarers. Fourthly, the comparability of Slovenian tax legislation with the legislation of the other maritime Member States of the European Union. The drafter states that the proposed tax is in line with the European Commission guidelines on State aid for maritime transport. The bill introduces the tonnage tax system as a selective form of calculating the tax base for the payment of corporate income tax. The debtor must remain in the ten-year tax system. After this period, it may or may not re-apply to the tonnage tax system. However, a taxable person who also has income from other activities not included in the tonnage tax system must keep a separate bookkeeping record. The daily basis for calculating the tonnage tax for each ship shall be calculated on the basis of the net tonnage of the ship multiplied by the amounts. Here there is a table, up to the first thousand tonnes is this amount of 0,90 euros per day for 100 tonnes. For further thousands to 10 thousand 0.67 and further 10,000 to 25 thousand tonnes 0.40. For all more than 25 000 tonnes of gross registrar weight, the amount is now fixed to 0.20 in accordance with the Committee on Finance debate. The tax base of a particular ship for the tax period shall be calculated by multiplying the daily base by the number of days of operation of a particular ship during the tax period. However, the tonnage tax system may not include a ship used for example: for military purposes, for fishing purposes, inn, casino, research, sports and so on. The proposal for a tonnage law constitutes a positive attitude of the Government towards the economic sector, which, due to specific activities, is subject to exceptional cycle fluctuations which also threaten their existence. In view of all the above, we will support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u13	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that I saw that the Assembly Room of the National Assembly had been abandoned by Members of the Liberal Democracy Club, leaving without any notice, of course, I will not consider this an obstruction of the work of the National Assembly. That's why we're going to continue our work. As long as their departure means obstruction, please make an official announcement. Ms Breda Pečan will give her position to the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u14	Good afternoon, everyone! Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the adoption of the Tonage Tax Act. It is a law by which we realize not only the interests of shipowners, but also the interest of Slovenia, that in the field of maritime transport finally skip another one of the barriers that are constantly being put before the implementation of the Resolution on the Maritime Direction of Slovenia. Maybe it's seemingly irrelevant to Europe. To our honest mind, the continental way of thinking is a strange, unusual step. However, it is necessary to know that the Slovenian part of the northern Adriatic, along with the Straza Bay, is the deepest European continent in the Mediterranean. That is why we have a very attractive position for the marine environment and, despite our smallness, we can gain a kind of advantage if we are prepared to give something for it. In the case of this law, we have shown that we are aware that capital is not looking for new opportunities where there is a good climate and a beautiful country, but where tax advantages can make more profits. It may not be too much to point out that it was then that we Members of the United List of Social Democrats, within the mandate of 1992-1996, had repeatedly initiated initiatives to offer foreign investors more favourable tax conditions in the so-called "offshore" zone in Luka Koper, and therefore there was no special attention. It is fortunate that the EU has found that, without tax advantages for shipowners, it cannot expect any other shipowner to remain with its ships in any EU Member State, allowing us to maintain or introduce so-called state aid in the form of a substantially favourable form of taxation of maritime companies. Nevertheless, on the spot, it has been pointed out that the quality of the preparation of the proposals proposed by the Government has deteriorated. If only there were minor inconsistencies in the use of individual terms, which should always be uniformly and uniformly used throughout the legislation, they could still be at risk of failing to draw up the law. However, given the need to adopt amendments to as many as 15 articles out of a total of 29, which are considered by this law, which had to be tabled by members of the coalition parties in order to address, in particular, the substantive shortcomings of those articles, it is indeed beyond the normal limits. Just one amendment, sixteen. This was the only one of the 16 amendments adopted, proposed by the Liberal Democracy, which was adopted to increase the benefits for shipowners, but may be taken into account if the tonnage of the fleet declared in Slovenia increases significantly, of course, on a single ship. At the time of reading the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service and the amendments that led to this opinion, the man felt that the law had been written by someone who was otherwise involved in maritime and maritime law. He does not know much about tax legislation and tax procedure. I am confident, and there is also a number of similar opinions within our parliamentary group that it would be good for the reputation of the Government of the Republic in this particular case, as well as for the reputation of the Ministry of Finance, that it no longer leaves the scope of such legislative proposals, which make it possible to believe that the Government is hiring in order to draw up legal proposals for incompetent and superficial people. Experts, I'm afraid they can't be told. And then, of course, we can talk about the non-economic spending of public money. As it is said, in the beginning, the Social Democrats' Group will support such a revised bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u15	Thank you, too. I am obliged to inform you that my colleague, Školč, has informed me that the Liberal Democracy Club, in view of his assessment of the unsustainable situation in the system of work, is predicting obstruction of the work of the National Assembly. But I don't know what point. If any other parliamentary group shares their opinion, please say so. Then we can proceed. Member Cyril Testen has the floor. I ask for a presentation on the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u16	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! New Slovenia welcomes the adoption of the Tonage Tax Act. The positive changes in tax legislation adopted at the end of the previous year also require the adoption of some exceptions that will allow the shipbuilding industry to be maintained in Slovenia and associated jobs. Slovenia, as a maritime state, is also obliged to take care of shipowners or shipping companies. It is no worse than if companies register their companies there because of the tax advantages of other countries and the tax and profit flow into the budgets of other countries. This means that the home country loses not only businesses and their taxes but also jobs and the related positive effects. In Novi Slovenija we are pleased that the Government and the Ministry of Finance can listen to the needs of today's time so that they are willing to reduce the tax burden on businesses and enable better operating conditions. The conservation and development of maritime transport is extremely important for Slovenia as a maritime country. According to our known information, Slovenia has 25 net-loaded vessels with a net weight of 240 thousand tonnes in the beneficiary countries. If we want to preserve the Slovenian maritime industry and make it an important haven of international routes both economically and tourismally, it is important that we keep domestic shipping companies at home in order to enable the return of companies already registered in the so-called beneficiary countries to allow for the modernisation, renewal and expansion of the fleet. This will increase the competitiveness of Slovenian ships. Keep maritime knowledge while maintaining jobs both on ships and on land. In the New Slovenia Group, we welcome any burden on the Slovenian economy. We are pleased that the Government is following the programme it has set out to ensure that Slovenia is successfully developed in a country where the market economy and international competitiveness will take precedence. The tonnage tax law gives Slovenian shipping companies the benefits that in the long term mean the development of the Slovenian economy and its competitiveness. That is why we support the law in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will give the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State with the co-workers of the Ministry of Finance, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The European Union, as well as Slovenia, faces the fact that shipowners register their ships in countries where there are greater benefits or in countries of benefit. These are countries which are particularly favourable from a tax point of view, but mostly with lower, safety and other requirements for ships. The problem of tax havens or "off-shore" con is quite serious. According to some surveys, a large proportion of companies are registered in these areas or are expected to operate across these areas half of the world's capital. These trends can be tackled differently than ensuring competitive, tax and economic conditions, which is often almost impossible. In order to limit the transfer of shipowners' seats to third countries, the European Commission has adopted Community guidelines on State aid for maritime transport, which proposes the introduction of a special so-called tonnage tax, which is more favourable than existing tax provisions and allows European shipowners to have a competitive position. These are relatively old guidelines, since they were adopted ten years ago. Most European maritime countries have already introduced a tonnage tax for their shipowners. Taking into account the fact that such a tax has already been adopted by neighbouring Italy, the adoption of the proposed law is necessary. This not only ensures Slovenia's competitiveness in this area compared to third countries, but even more importantly with neighbouring countries with more favourable tax conditions within the European Union. We support the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party. We must be aware of the fact that maritime transport has a significant impact on other activities and that it also provides certain jobs in Slovenia. The adopted law will also make maritime more favourable conditions for further development and survival in times of recession. As we say, we will support the proposed law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u19	Thank you, too. We are done with the presentation of the position of the parliamentary groups. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we will have a third hearing, which is a vote on the bill, held tomorrow. This is Friday, 22, as part of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. Agenda item - Second defense of the bill on the prevention of money and the financing of terrorism. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The draft law transposes Directive 2005/60 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2005 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing into the Slovenian legal order. These provisions should be transposed into Slovenian legislation by 15 December 2007 at the latest. In order to harmonise the Slovenian regime with the European legal order, the existing law must therefore be replaced by a completely new law, including the area of terrorist financing or the area of prevention of terrorist financing. The proposal for a new law thus allows all measures to prevent and detect money laundering to be applied also in relation to the prevention of terrorist financing in accordance with international standards. The proposed law, in view of the current law, brings the following significant innovations and, of course, improvements. There is an increasing number of commitments to carry out the tasks of combating money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism to new societies. Those companies that provide business and fiduciary services, companies that issue electronic money and companies that provide certain payment services, including remittances of money. In addition, a so-called risk assessment approach is introduced that allows debtors to treat their customers on the basis of their own risk assessment. This, on the one hand, means the burden on the debtors when there is a slight risk and, on the other hand, the justified requirement for a stricter treatment in cases where they present greater risks. In addition, the law itself lays down certain restrictions on the business of customers. Some of these were already in force. Thus, it is prohibited to open or maintain anonymous accounts. The operation of the debtors with the apparent banks is prohibited. Persons selling goods in Slovenia will not be allowed to accept payment in cash from a customer when selling goods if the payment exceeds EUR 15 000. This is said to be the case, in cases where more than €15 000 is involved, no cash traffic is possible. In addition, the debtors or parties will have to provide the Office with certain data when it comes to cash transactions of more than EUR 30 000. Today, this amount amounts to EUR 20 000. Changes will also be made in the field of tasks and competences of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent money laundering and international cooperation, and of course also in the field of control. In order to delete the sixth paragraph of Article 13 of the proposal, the Government will also, in the third reading, submit a harmonisation amendment to Article 92. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The government is proposing to the National Assembly to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I am informing you that I have received another cancellation from the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups due to the occupation on the parent's working body. Since this is the second case, I will adjourn the meeting of the National Assembly. Members of the parliamentary groups are requested to join me in room 217 at 9 and 50 minutes at the College. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u22	Dear Members! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Before that, we agreed at our working meeting with representatives of the parliamentary groups that the work of the National Assembly would not be subordinated to the work of the working bodies. Therefore, all the Presidents of all the working bodies of the National Assembly should adapt their work to the plenary session of the National Assembly in the first place. As you know, the mother's working body ended up with its treatment in the meantime. And I believe we will no longer have such cases. As it is said, we have remained with the proposal for a law which has been treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. [[...]] I ask the member of the Committee of Mr Jakob the President to submit a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u23	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! At its 27th meeting, on 6 June, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and acceptance. The Committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical legal system and, with regard to concrete solutions, commented on the provisions of Articles 3, 5, 6, 13, 25, 38, 41, 43 and 85 and on the second and ninth chapters of the text submitted. The Committee's comments took part in the drafting of its amendments, which are reflected in the follow-up to this report. Until the expiry of the time limit, a number of amendments were tabled by the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups to the legislative proposal, namely 31st, 32nd, 41st, 59th, 60th, 61st, 74th, 91st, 92rd, 93rd, 97th and 99th Articles of the legislative proposal. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the applicant presented in more detail the reasons for the submission of the proposed legislative proposal at the same time as the individual solutions introduced. It follows from the explanation of the legislative proposal that the main objective of the text submitted is the transposition of Directive 2005/60/EC into the Slovenian legal order, which will help to further harmonise the rules of the EU Member States and bring them into line with other measures taken at international level. At the same time, the new text is intended to address the shortcomings of the existing regime. With regard to the amendments tabled, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stated that the proposals followed concretely the comments made in the work relating to the sanctioning of responsible persons. However, in the additional written opinion, a number of explanations or reasons for the solutions put in place were provided by the law's proponents. Others invited to the meeting also took part in the discussion, which is reflected in the report. In accordance with Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 13, 97, 98 and 99 on the basis of a warning from representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service and the conclusions of the debate. The Committee also adopted amendments to the coalition groups by 31st, 32nd, 41st, 59th, 60th, 61st, 74th, 91st, 92nd and 93rd articles of the legislative proposal. Since the Committee has adopted its amendments to Articles 97, 98 and 99, taking into account the additional warning given by the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, the vote on the two amendments of the parliamentary groups to Articles 97 and 99 has become irrelevant. Pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended draft law, which includes all the amendments adopted, is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Jelen will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u25	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! The geostrategic position of our country is ideal for the transition of terrorists to the target country. The likelihood of being the target country of Slovenia is low, although we must not ignore it. But given the smallness of our country, where it is an ideal opportunity to cover up various illegal acts, we are interesting to criminal societies, to launder money and to finance terrorist organisations. It is therefore important that, with a clear and decisive security strategy, timely and effective action is taken already in the sense of preventing such acts. A suitable legal basis for effectively preventing the use of financial systems for money laundering and terrorist financing is essential. In this regard, we believe in the Group of Members that the draft law follows sufficiently the requirement to comply with the acquis of the European Union, the conclusions of the Special Committee of the Council of Europe and the objectives of the wider international community, which has strengthened and complemented international standards in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing following the terrorist attacks. According to our assessment, the solutions proposed are appropriate. We are therefore confident that it will improve the effectiveness of identifying the financial transactions with which money obtained through criminal acts is converted into legal ones. To this end, a number of innovations are foreseen in the law, compared to the law currently in force, which has also become obsolete in the sense that it does not address the areas of prevention of terrorist financing. The comments of some institutions which are legally bound to act are considered unfounded. However, the proposal to open an account without the personal identification of a party without its physical presence in relation to the purpose of the law is not acceptable. The fact is that without the customer's identification, it is difficult or impossible to carry out further procedures regarding the search for the origin of the money and the monitoring of its traceability when opening an account. Of course, it is also essential to identify the whole range of people who are involved in questionable transactions and illegal ways of obtaining money. The detection of money laundering and the limitation of terrorism requires a comprehensive organisational approach, which implies the activation of various institutions, of which, of course, results are expected in terms of their powers and duties. We stress that effective work in this area today needs to be made as much effort as possible to control it. And that appropriate cooperation and mutual assistance between competent authorities also contribute significantly to the results. At this point, cooperation between financial institutions and repressive authorities is still lacking. However, we also hope that the pending cases, and those still under consideration, will finally receive appropriate judicial epilogues on the basis of this law. Since we believe in the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group that the law is appropriate and that consistent implementation of the law will contribute to achieving its objectives, we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Possonec will give her position to the National Community. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u27	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present, including representatives of the government. The aim of the bill is to transpose a new third directive in line with the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing into the Slovenian legal order. This will contribute to further simplification, simplification of the rules of the Member States of the European Union and coherence with other measures adopted at international level. The new law also seeks to remedy some of the problems of existing regulation in the Republic of Slovenia. The solutions submitted are intended to ensure the effectiveness of measures to prevent and detect terrorist financing in the financial system, to improve the effectiveness of the anti-money laundering and terrorist financing system in the Republic of Slovenia, to implement a global approach against money laundering and terrorist financing using international standards where possible. And beyond the borders of the state. Well, we'll support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mrs. Poxon. The delegation of Polonca Dobrajc will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u29	Dear President! Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, representatives of the Government. Through globalisation, international terrorism has also spread to all countries of the world and has entered international financial flows. Preventing money laundering is one of the preventive measures to combat international crime. Since 11 September 2001, there have been other developments: the developed countries of the world have committed themselves to a joint fight against terrorism. Thus, we have before us the proposal for a new Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, which seeks to involve the members of the European Union with coordinated and uniform measures in a more effective fight against the suppression of both international crime and the financing of terrorism. It must be said that preventing money laundering is a preventive measure. For this money, it is so-called dirty money, it comes from most of the crimes or it serves to finance the commission of crimes, as well as terrorism. I will not repeat the general objectives of the law, which have been stated both by the proponents and by the previous debaters. I would only point out that the Slovenian Democratic Party supports the bill. As well as the objectives for which the law is submitted for consideration by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u30	Thank you very much. My colleague, Milan M. Cvikl, will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! With regard to the prevention of money laundering and the financing of tourism, it must first be said that the Republic of Slovenia was the first of the Central and Eastern European countries to have established an appropriate system with the Prevention of Money Laundering Act since 1995. Last but not least, until this law is passed, several laws apply: Law on Money Laundering Prevention, Law on Criminal Procedure, Law on Banking, Foreign Exchange Transactions, etc. This is the area. At the same time, eight rules adopted by the Minister of Finance are in force. In such a way as to establish that in the area of money laundering, at least in the legal order of Slovenia, it has been following directly the best practices in the world. However, after the attack, terrorist attacks in the United States, in Europe, the international community decided to tighten these issues. It is interesting that this Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism is, in fact, one of the rare laws to be adopted before the conclusion of the legal deadline laid down by the EU Directive. That's, if I'm not mistaken, December of this year. Here, of course, they praised the government. But since we're in the opposition, allow me a few critical words. Of course, it is most critical that the directive is practically imputed directly to the law. And that we do not yet fully imagine what they will have to do in the article - if I am not mistaken - 85, the supervisory institutions, supervisory authorities - what these authorities will have to do: Banka Slovenije, Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Market in Securities and Insurance Control, Office for the Control of Gambling, Tax Administration, Market Inspectorate, Slovenian Institute for Auditing and also the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia and the Notary Chamber of Slovenia. Why am I saying that? Because, of course, there is a time limit within which it will be necessary to determine exactly how to proceed. It is also not clear why Slovenia is among the first, as some e-money providers point out, the one that, of course, places the current cash limit of EUR 1,450 per payment over the established internet at EUR 150. For every 150 euro it will be necessary "to establish and ensure identification of this entire transaction". I think that in implementing this Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering we will face many practical problems, which can also stop additional costs. We therefore recommend that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the drafting of the sub-laws and in the formation of the commitments to be made by the supervisory authorities, ensure, of course, that the objective is, in some way, achieved by a proportionate amount of resources. If all 9, 10 supervisory institutions are "very burdened with control activities, then it is no longer clear what is still the task of the Anti-Money Laundering Office". In the SD Group of Members, we will support the law. As I said before, thank the government that this law will be passed within the time limit. Above all, we expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare, as soon as possible, sub-legislative acts as well as appropriate guidelines for the functioning of supervisory authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u32	Thank you, too. Colleague Milan Petek will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u33	Good day, not too many colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are aware of the importance of measures that achieve the effects of preventing money laundering or financing terrorism. Therefore, the LDS Club supports the general objectives of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. However, this law raises some doubts as to the meaning of the provisions which, in our view, would harm economic initiative and create doubts about the provisions which are disputed from the point of view of the Constitution and from the point of view of the Personal Data Protection Act, to which all Members have been warned by the Information Officer. Let's get this straight. The new law proposes leaving the customer's review only up to 150 euros in a single payment or a total of 2,500 euros per year. Which is ten times less from the practice of some European countries than in other environments in the European Community. In other countries of the European Community, there is a restriction allowing for the suspension of the customer's review of up to EUR 1,450 for the purchase of electronic money, purchase or raise of electronic money, or totalling up to EUR 15,000. It is true that this is probably a transitional period. However, according to our opinion, Slovenia is too rigorous and too quick to introduce as radical a measure as the law brings. For this reason, at the LDS Club, we believe that it would be appropriate to allow a transitional period that would allow for the suspension of the customer's review of up to EUR 1,450 for the purchase of electronic money, which is also possible until 2007. The suspension of the check to a value of 150 euros is problematic because the issuer of electronic money will have too much costs and it is likely that this form will be abandoned, i.e. the issue of electronic money. In this way, we believe that the economic initiative in Slovenia is moving in some way. The Government has also misrepresented Directive 2000/46-EC in Article 12 of the Act, where instead of "data bearers", the term "amount of payment" was used by the Government. If the government does not correct the wrong copy of the directive into law, Slovenia will tighten the issue of electronic money, which will also harm the e-business sector. Unfortunately, with the provisions of the law, the Government blocked the development and implementation of internet banking, i.e. banks that do not have businesses in Slovenia and would like to offer financial services on competitive terms to citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. There are also conflicting provisions in the law from the point of view of the Constitution. The LDS Club proposed to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy in order to delete in Article 13 a controversial provision which would allow the Minister of Finance to establish other means of data processing by means of a regulation. While the Committee adopted the proposal from the LDS Member Club to delete the dispute. However, it did not take into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Information Commissioner in Article 46, where the storage and protection of personal data is a matter of legal regulation and non-legislative as set out in the Article in question. This is why, according to our opinion, the law is constitutionally controversial because it still allows the Minister responsible for finance to lay down more detailed rules on the Commissioner, the way in which internal control, data storage and protection, the management of records and the professional training of workers under this law in organisations, lawyers, law firms and notaries are carried out. It follows from this that the processing of sub-laws, at least in our view, is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, since, under Article 38(2) of the Constitution, the collection, processing, purpose of consumption, control and protection of personal data is laid down by law. It is also possible that the law will therefore be inconsistent with the Personal Data Protection Act. All of this, these statements I have mentioned, which I have described, which I have presented, lead us to decide that the LDS Club cannot support such a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Ciril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u35	Thank you for your word, chairman. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The adoption of the proposed Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism is also necessary in order to comply with the European acquis. If Member States have already adopted a third directive on combating money laundering and financing of terrorism, we are in Slovenia, for the first time, regulating the prevention of financing of terrorism. The success of measures taken at European Union level depends on the success of the implementation of these measures in national environments. By amending legislation on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, we want to ensure in the New Slovenia Group that personal security and property security are not threatened. By harmonising the rules and harmonising the other measures, we will therefore provide a broader basis for the functioning of the institutions in the European Union. They must ensure that the measures are implemented to the maximum extent possible with appropriate human resources and technical equipment. In a highly volatile globalised world, it is crucial that the country develop effective services that will be able to detect and prevent all possible threats and threats to international terrorism, crime and other forms of harmful human action. The proposed law brings the most novelties in the field of tasks and obligations of the debtors and supervision, as well as the tasks and powers of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent money laundering. In addition to the extension of the commitment circle, a review of the customer that the debtors will have to carry out shall also be introduced. Among other things, in concluding a business relationship with a client, for each transaction worth more than EUR 15 000, in doubt as to the credibility of previously acquired client data and so on. A risk assessment and the possibility of unloading shall be introduced where there is a slight risk of money laundering. Obligations may leave the conduct of certain review procedures to third parties. The decommissioning of the debtors does not significantly interfere with the basic system of combating money laundering and financing of terrorism. An important novelty is also the ban on the opening and management of anonymous transaction accounts. It was only in the previous decade that the general realization that crime is the easiest to suppress by taking away what drives it is money. Following the traces left by dirty money, it is possible to identify those who need it for their criminal activities. The bill provides for a more appropriate way of controlling the implementation of measures to prevent and detect money laundering and terrorist financing and the handling of infringements. There are also proportionate penalties which we hope will also be dissuasive in the New Slovenia Group. Due to international standards on the prevention of terrorist financing and the international cooperation of offices, the tasks and responsibilities of the Anti-Money Laundering Office have changed slightly. For example, the possibility of suspending the transaction is introduced if there is a suspicion of terrorist financing. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the bill because we want to make it possible to implement a global approach in preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will give the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u37	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I'll be brief. The Slovenian People's Party's Group supports the proposed law by setting out the actions of the competent authorities and procedures to detect and prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. In doing so, of course, we are transposing directives of the European Community into our legal order, and therefore we agree with the whole law, and we want, of course, to implement them as soon as possible with the necessary sub-legislative acts. As it is said, the parliamentary group will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u38	Thank you, too. And colleague Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives! Now to speak correctly, not correctly, it is right that we adopt the proposal of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Prevention of Financing of Theory, as well as if it is an EU directive. Last but not least, we have entered this great country together and we must respect, of course, the legal norms of this great country. It is right that it includes the proposal of the law of certain new supervisory authorities, the existing system of supervision. It is right that we respect the technical, nomotechnic and substantive instructions that this law or this directive has been translated into Slovenian. However, we have in this National Assembly a legislative and legal service which gives its legal opinions to certain laws. I think it would be good if some opinions were taken into account by the Legislative and Legal Service when preparing and adopting this law. This is the opinion of the Slovenian National Party. We won't touch all nine, ten, eleven, I'm sorry, opinions. One thing's important. We heard him today. This is an essential comment by the Legislative and Legal Service. It refers to sub-legislative acts which should lay down the conditions for the preparation of sub-laws by the Minister. Once again, in the Slovenian National Party, we are in favour of working against money laundering to cooperate against the possibility of financing terrorism, but we must also take into account the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service. We also warn the Slovenian National Party that it is not good that we are too often more papal than the pope. This means that we are tightening the conditions more than those laid down in the Directive. I think that it is a common view that this law is necessary to accept it, that we must respect it, because it is only a literal translation of the directive. However, the literality ends where we set some conditions that are so much more restrictive against the conditions that a normal European country has if we are honest. I think it would be good if such laws, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, were prepared with a sense, taking into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, taking into account also the opinions of different political options, although we all agree that such a law must be adopted. I don't know if these options are still there or not. I think it would be good if that part, which is justified as a warning to the Legislative and Legal Service in this National Assembly, were also taken into account. And I'm going to end up setting some sort of example. It is absolutely good and right to prevent money laundering in order to prevent the financing of terrorism. But sometimes we ask ourselves -- we've been trying this as a legal state all along -- or there's no hole in this marriage, because someone Candy's washing machine replaces for Gorenje and then goes on with the stories as they went. I hope and wish, I speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, distinguished representatives of the Government, but to consider at least that part of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, where it is a matter of sub-legislative acts prepared by the Minister. But here, I think it's okay to make some sort of order, if possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u40	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As not a single amendment has been tabled to the amended proposal, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we will have a third hearing, which is a vote on the bill, held tomorrow on Friday, 22nd, in the framework of the votes. This also interrupts this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Government for their participation. And we're moving on to 7. Agenda item - Second draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Loves. We have 55 minutes at our disposal for this point. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Ivan Žagar, to the Minister without a passport in charge of local self-government and regional policy, to further explain the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u41	Thank you for your word, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The purpose and purpose of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections is in particular to bring the law into line with the two decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, relating first to the restriction on the exercise of electoral rights due to the deprivation of business capacity. The amendment provides that the law governing election rights in the National Assembly shall apply to the restriction of the exercise of the right to vote for the deprivation of business capacity. And a second time. Determination of the required number of electorate signatures for the submission of the candidacy for elections to the municipal council and the mayor's election. The proposal is based on the Constitutional Court's recommendation that the solution adopted should also allow candidates who are found to have at least a minimum real opportunity to obtain a mandate to eliminate inequalities between voters who apply for candidates under a majority and proportional electoral system to the diversity of municipalities in terms of the number of electorates in the electoral unit and to assess how many votes are needed to elect one member of the municipal council in terms of participation in the elections and the mayor's candidacy in terms of the mayor's function and the fact that the municipality is one constituency. I would like to point out that the proposed solution regarding the number of signatures needed for the municipal council to run has been verified on specific data or on the results of the municipal council elections at the 2006 local elections. In any of the municipalities, the number of votes needed to elect one member of the municipal council was not less than 1%. The bill also contains some amendments that are necessary for the elimination of certain legal voids and for ensuring the legality of the conduct of elections. The replacements for electoral bodies, i.e. electoral commissions and electoral committees, are set out in more detail and more detail as the last local elections have shown that the provision does not contain solutions for all types of electoral committees. Do not separate between individual elections. However, as regards the remuneration for electoral committees, it appeared that they were not in proportion to the scope of the work. The draft law contains an additional legal remedy in the section of the legal remedies. This is an objection to the legality of the list of candidates with regard to its composition following the publication of the list of candidates in the means of public information. Finally, the bill also makes it easier to run for councils of local, village and fourth communities when a political party is applying for candidacy. As regards the establishment of a list of candidates, it is necessary to have an election right and a permanent residence in the municipality and not in a local village or a fourth community. I therefore call on the honourable Members and Members to support the adoption of this law and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Jazbec, to submit a report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At its regular 13th meeting, on 6.6.2007, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the National Assembly sent the draft law pursuant to Article 94 of the Law on Local Self-Government and Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 10.4.2007 to the mayors of municipalities and municipalities and set a time limit for sending opinions up to and including 10.5.2007. At the time, only the Mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana sent an opinion on the draft law. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service has examined that proposal in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative technical aspect. It submitted its comments to Articles 2, 3, 5 and 7. In its opinion, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia supported and drew attention to some open issues of the Law on Local Elections. It shall give a positive assessment of the proposed solutions to Article 2. It also supports the proposed solutions to Articles 3, 4 and 7. The Council of State also recalls Article 18 of the Law on Local Elections, which regulates the question of preferential votes, and suggests that the question of determining the candidate’s term on the list be examined on the basis of preferential votes in smaller constituencies. In an additional introductory explanation of the articles under the second reading of the draft law, the representative of the proposed minister without a licence was in charge of the field of local self-government and regional policy, Dr. Ivan Žagar, pointing out that the purpose of the proposed law is to comply with the two decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia relating to the restriction of the exercise of electoral rights due to the deprivation of business capacity and to the determination of the necessary number of electoral signatures for the submission of elections to the municipal council and the election of the mayor. The proposal for a law is based on the Constitutional Court's recommendation that the solution adopted should also allow candidates who are found to have at least a minimum real opportunity to obtain a mandate. At the same time, it is also based on the elimination of inequalities between voters who apply for a majority and proportional electoral system, according to the diversity of municipalities and the number of voters and electoral units, and on the assessment of how many votes are needed to elect a member of the municipal council, in terms of participation in the elections, including in the running for mayor. In the sense of the mayoral function and the fact that the municipality is one constituency. He pointed out that the proposed solution to the number of signatures needed to run for office was verified on specific data or on the results of elections to the municipal council at the 2006 local elections. He pointed out that in none of the municipalities the number of votes needed to elect one municipal councillor was less than 1%. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee went on to discuss the articles of the bill. The Committee adopted the amendments of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Articles 2 and 5. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the Ambassador of the Cvetka Zalokar Orzam to Article 7. The Committee also adopted the amendment as its amendment to Article 3. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee has set out the text of the amended draft law which forms an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u44	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the views of the parliamentary groups. Mrs Maria Possonec will give her position to the National Community.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Have a nice hello again. The bill regulates restrictions on the exercise of electoral rights to persons who cannot exercise it due to the loss of their business ability. It is thus laid down that, in order to restrict the exercise of electoral rights in local elections, the provisions of the law governing election rights in the National Assembly shall apply to persons deprived of their commercial capacity or extended parental rights. This solution is based on the principle that if someone is unable to exercise electoral rights in national elections, he is not able to do so in local elections either. Therefore, it must be uniformly defined to determine the conditions under which this right may be restricted. The minimum number of electorate signatures required for the submission of candidates and candidate papers for the municipal council is also determined on the basis of two criteria: the diversity of municipalities according to the number of voters in the electoral unit and the number of votes needed to elect one member of the municipal council in relation to the participation in the elections. Subject to this criterion, the reference laid down by the Constitutional Court by its decision is sufficient. It is possible to run more easily in the councils of local, village and quarter communities when the applicant is a political party. Political parties also wish to apply for applications in the holy parts of the municipality, but have so far been limited in terms of the procedure for the appointment of candidates. The amendment to Article 45 deals more closely with the basis and the way in which refunds are to be made for the bodies concerned. In doing so, it follows from the principle that the elected authorities for the local elections are independent, independent municipal authorities, that their function is honorable and that members of the electoral bodies have the right to a single remuneration for each election. The law on fixing refunds contains specific solutions for the elected commissions and electoral committees. Hierarchically, the highest authority in the local elections is the municipal electoral commission. Therefore, the basic solution is established for the municipal electoral commission. This leads to solutions for other special commissions. In addition to the municipal electoral commission, the law on local elections is also known by the special municipal electoral commission set out in Article 33(3) and (3), the elected election commission of members of the municipal council, representatives of the Italian and Hungarian nationalities, and the Roma community, and the electoral commission of the electoral units, if they are appointed to run elections to the municipal council following a proportional electoral system. The current arrangements for determining their remuneration only provided for these commissions with a general conclusion that they were entitled to an appropriate refund. In the municipalities where such special municipal election committees were appointed, there were therefore very different solutions regarding the amount of compensation. Furthermore, it was not clear which body to decide on the amount of the compensation. The legal solution provides that the President, the Vice-President, the members, the Secretary and his Deputy Special Electoral Commission shall have the right to an appropriate replacement. However, the refund shall not be less than 50% of the refund fixed for the municipally-loved committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u46	Thank you, too. Mr Pojbič will give his position to the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u47	Dear President! The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections, which we are adopting today, amends five articles of the basic law. The changes are mainly due to the decision of the basic position of the Republic of Slovenia, which ruled that Article 68 of the Law on Local Elections is not in accordance with the Constitution. This Article governs the necessary number of signatures in the selection process and, in the view of the Constitutional Court, intervenes in the rights of independent candidates and independent documents or violates the principle of reciprocity of elections. Other reasons for amending the law, however, are the problems or inconveniences that emerged from the 2006 municipal elections, as well as other types of elections. It has been shown that difficulties arise in determining the amount of compensation to the electoral authorities, in certifying candidates or candidates within the municipal committees of the parties and in repealing the decision of the municipal electoral commission in the event of an irregularity found. We believe that the novel is the best way to remedy the shortcomings of the basic law. That is why we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontič will give the position of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections is, as the motioner points out, mainly due to two constitutional decisions, i.e. decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to the debates of MEPs and Members of the Social Democrats, which we have been alerting in the process of adopting the law now in force to the shortcomings that we are addressing today because of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. But they're unnecessary. For if you had listened to the debates and concerns at that time, the solutions in the law would have been written down differently. In Article 1, therefore, the applicant shall equalize the exercise of electoral rights to persons with lost business capacity at local and national elections. It is also right that the law should specify the remuneration for members and members of the local elections. Both in terms of height and in terms of beneficiaries. As I have said, in the Group of Social Democrats, in determining the content of this amending article 54 of the Local Elections Act, we have warned that, on behalf of the protection of political parties, it is not meaningful or fair for political parties to restrict independent candidates or candidates in such a way as to place in them a high number of necessary signatures in support of the candidacy, even more than is actually necessary for the election. Let me quote only part of my debate of 16.12.2005 when we discussed and adopted this arrangement. Illogically, unfairly and contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision, which states in explanation that the principles of generality and equality of electoral rights should also be taken into account in the legal regulation of election candidates. Any candidate or candidate list must have the same legal opportunity to take part in the elections. In this principle, the generality of electoral rights does not prohibit the legislator from laying down certain conditions for the candidacy, unless it prevents the election of candidates with at least a minimum real opportunity to obtain a mandate. And if we were to ensure at that time what Minister Žagar once stated in his introduction to the meeting of the home working body and even here a few minutes ago that the proposed solution regarding the number of signatures needed to run for the municipal council was verified on specific data or on the results of elections to the municipal council at local elections, these errors would not occur. Allow me to finally communicate our support, the support of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors to the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u50	Thank you very much. My colleague Miran Jerič gave the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u51	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr Minister with fellow Members! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we support the Proposal for a New Law on Local Elections. The novelty essentially contains two fundamental contents, namely, firstly, the harmonisation of the provisions of the applicable law on local elections with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Secondly, there are some shortcomings that have occurred in the past or in practice in the conduct of local elections. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we agree with the objectives of the proposed novel and in this context we agree with the solutions that are written down, allowing me to put some particular emphasis. Thus, in the LDS Group, we agree with a provision which provides that, with regard to the restriction of the exercise of electoral rights in local elections, persons deprived of their business capacity or extended parental rights shall be subject to the provisions of the law governing the election right in the National Assembly. Since the compensation arrangements for the municipal electoral commission have not been sufficiently precise so far and there have been various ways of implementing this provision, the LDS supports the proposal of a more detailed regulation in the law that distinguishes between the remuneration for the president, his deputy and the members of the commission and the secretaries and his deputies, as well as the level of compensation for the special electoral commission by law. In this context, our support also applies to a solution that regulates the amount of compensation for cases where there is no general election. Particular attention should also be paid to the amendment of the law, which provides for an increase in the payment of compensation to the electoral committee. The current arrangements have proved to be inappropriate in practice. In fact, it is unfair, since it differs significantly from the regime in force when voting in national elections, whether it is the election of the President of the Republic or the election of the National Assembly. Anyone who has ever participated in the local elections knows that the scope of the electoral committee's work in local elections varies significantly according to the size of the electoral committee's work in national elections. Votes are much more. The electoral committee should also take particular account of the preferred votes. Well, there's a lot more work to be done on time. Therefore, it is also right to eliminate the distinction in the amount of compensation belonging to the electoral committees. In the LDS Group, we have a bit of sceptic support for changes relating to the identification of the number of electoral signatures needed to invest candidates in the municipal council through a proportional electoral system. We have already expressed our doubts about this solution in the adoption of the amendment to the Local Elections Act, which was then also the subject of a judgment before the Constitutional Court. At that time, however, our warnings and doubts ran into deaf ears. While in the LDS we estimate that the revised solution, which determines the number of electorate signatures needed to submit nominations and candidate papers to the municipal council on the basis of two criteria, is the variety of municipalities according to the number of voters in the electoral unit and the number of votes needed to elect one member of the municipal council in terms of participation in the elections, is better. However, we are not entirely sure whether the reference laid down by the Constitutional Court by its decision is sufficient. Despite these concerns, we will support the proposed solution. In our view, however, this provision can lead in practice to a certain degree of ambiguity in the conduct of local elections themselves. In the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, we support the following solutions in the novel: that the amendment of the law lays down a legal remedy with which it is possible to object to the legality of the candidate list with regard to its composition after the publication of the list of candidates in the means of public information and to determine the number of signatures necessary for the mayor's application by the electorate. In particular, we support the simplification of candidatures in the councils of local, village and fourth communities when the candidate is a political party. For all these reasons, Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the amendment of the Law on Local Elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u52	Thank you. My colleague Martin Mikolič will give the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u53	Nicely greeted! Honourable Vice President, Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The most important amendments to the Local Elections Act this time were the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which annulled the article which referred to the number of signatures required by the independent lists for elections to the municipal councils under the proportional electoral system, and the article setting out the required number of signatures for the election of municipal councillors after the majority electoral system. The number of signatures for the elections of independent mayors has not been annulled by the Constitutional Court. The proposed law stipulates that the number of signatures per cent are required for elections in municipal councils and 2 per cent for mayors' elections from the number of voters who voted in the last regular elections in the electoral unit. The law also sets the upper limit for the necessary signatures. In elections to the municipal councils, that's 1,000. At the mayor's election, there were 2,500 signatures. In the New Slovenia Group, we are of the opinion that the legislator has the right to ensure, by establishing the necessary support for candidates, that candidates and lists appear to have at least the minimum real opportunity to obtain a mandate. However, participation in candidates and lists which have already been shown to enjoy so little support in the electoral body that there is no minimum possibility of obtaining a mandate shall be prevented. This ensures greater transparency of the elections and prevents the opposition, presentation of candidates and political programmes from being prevented in the electoral unit due to technical and time constraints. The prevention of hopeless candidates also prevents the loss or incision of electoral votes that are not taken into account in the division of mandates. All of this has a positive impact on the democraticity of elections. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that we have significantly too many independent lists in Slovenian municipalities. It is true, however, that these independent leaves in a wide range of environments have brought certain innovations, but unfortunately too many times in the context of contradictions with the aim of "If I fail to do something in my place, neither will my opponent." As we know, independent leaves also present a number of difficulties in concluding a coalition in a number of environments. The proposal for a law responds appropriately to the request of the Constitutional Court and, as the Constitutional Court has also imposed in its decision, the solutions give candidates real opportunity to be elected. The bill also contains some amendments that are necessary for the elimination of certain legal voids and for ensuring the legality of the conduct of elections. It solves the issue of compensation for electoral authorities, where things are united. The section on legal remedies sets out an additional legal remedy which can be used to challenge the legality of the list of candidates with regard to its composition following the publication of the list of candidates in the means of public information. Let me conclude that we will support the proposed changes in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Comrade Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u55	Honourable Chairman, Honourable Minister with Fellow Workers! Messengers and Members! The new law on local elections was drawn up primarily because of a decision of the Constitutional Court, by which article 68 of the Law on Local Elections was repealed before the last local elections. It is a requirement to provide at least 2% of the number of voters, but not more than 2,500, when running for proportional elections to the municipal council. This is a violation of the general principle of elections, as the condition is too demanding. Especially since the election is never attended by all voters and participation is not 100 per cent. In accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, the proposer, in our view, proposes an appropriate solution which reduces the number of signatures required to an acceptable level. In doing so, the required number of signatures binds to participation in previous local elections and thus ensures the principle of generality of elections. In addition to this alignment with the Constitutional Court's decision, a number of amendments are made to the law, which are due in particular to the specific shortcomings of the law found in practice. The proposed amendment deals more closely with the area of compensation for electoral authorities. In particular, the reasons for the proposed amendments were unclear arrangements in the event that the municipal electoral commission also had a deputy secretary. His replacement is now being regulated. At the same time, the replacement of the Vice-President of the Electoral Commission from the previous 100 per cent to 80% of the replacement of the President of the Electoral Commission is being reduced. Such a solution is logical as the President of the Electoral Commission will, however, sign all the acts of the electoral commission. Although it may also be so that most of the tasks are carried out by the Secretary or the Vice-President. We also welcome the decision of the new 96a article allowing the municipal electoral commission, either on its own or on its own motion or on the basis of the candidate's opposition, to fully or partially abolish the decision by which the list of candidates has been approved. In this way, it will be possible to remedy possible errors more quickly. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposed amendments to the Law on Local Elections and we will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik will present the position of unrelated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The basic reason and amendments and additions to the Local Elections Act, which are the subject of today's hearing, is to comply with a one-year old decision of the Constitutional Court, which repealed the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Law relating to criteria or the necessary support for non-participating lists for elections in the municipal council. Although the applicant in the explanation of the law presupposes a more detailed and generous arrangement for compensation to the electoral authorities. In addition, the amendments and additions to the Act refer to another decision of the Constitutional Court of 2003 concerning the regulation of restrictions on the exercise of electoral rights to persons deprived of their business capacity, even though two amendments to the Act have been adopted in the meantime. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law also regulates a legal remedy with which it is possible to object to the legality of the list of candidates with regard to its composition, after its publication in the means of public information and, last but not least, to the political parties, the procedure for running in the holy villages, local and fourth communities. In view of the above, it constitutes a major part of the amendments and additions to the Local Elections Act, both for the legislator and for the proponents, due to unimaginable and unprofessional determinations in the adoption of the last two amendments to the law, to which some of us have been alerted. However, all the warnings and comments were rejected by the majority, which was driven by one single wish to tighten - not to say - the candidacy of non-participating candidates in local elections. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Local Elections are still acceptable but are not optimal in regulating the harmonisation of the disputed legal provisions with the Constitution. However, the basic message of the law is to tighten the conditions for the nominations of non-participating candidates while at the same time facilitating party candidates at the lowest level of local self-government where necessary. In any event, the one-per cent criterion of the necessary support to non-party letters or candidates is so repeatedly highlighted that it is not higher than the necessary number of votes to be voted on by the Constitutional Court as the upper limit, but not as the applicable criteria. Obviously, that's not the last change. Although the third is already in the last two years, there will still be a need for further alignment with the Constitutional Court's decision and by then they will be able to mature knowledge and readiness for possible better solutions. Despite some concerns, we will support the bill in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will give the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u59	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, at the first reading of the proposed Local Elections Act, we drew attention to the possibility of dispute or constitutional dispute, if the amendment is adopted, as proposed by the coalition parties. Because the fact is that when we talk about the number of signatures needed, it is very controversial to determine that a percentage should be chosen from the electoral beneficiaries. We know it's impossible. For the number of electoral beneficiaries is changing from day to day and it is very difficult to make electoral directories for the time of the local elections. We therefore proposed a similar amendment at the time, which did not raise this percentage by the number of electoral beneficiaries, but by the number of all inhabitants in a particular local community. That amendment was then rejected by your well-respected coalition colleagues. And it seems to me that today we could not talk about constitutional dispute if this amendment, as proposed by the Slovenian National Party, were accepted. That is why today we are faced with the fact that we cannot challenge this law. For the warnings given by the Constitutional Court. But only to think. If you remember the local elections that took place last year in our country, just think about the municipalities from which you come, how many papers or interest associations or maybe, if I can also tell them hopeful new politicians, it's on a specific candidate list. For instance, I can tell you. The municipality of Maribor had 36 candidatures. Well, if you calculate that 45 people, as far as everyone goes on the full list, are up, times 36, you will see that almost half of Maribor, full-year Maribor has run for elections. And half of Maribor had the feeling that it could make a policy in this country or, if not in this country, at least in the local community or in the other largest congregation. I'm not going to the small congregation. But when I talk to mayors from smaller municipalities, they have similar problems. There are lists and candidates with different names from the leaves for my street, my block, my balcony, beautiful flowers, and I don't know what else. Just as everyone in this country can't be a good mechanic or someone else or do some other job well, I'm sure the number of serious politicians is limited. Both in the country, at the level of the country and at the level of the local community. Therefore, it seems to me that it is still necessary to consider raising the threshold necessary for someone to submit to local elections. And let this reflection remain until the third reading. As has already been said, we cannot currently oppose this law and we will not oppose it in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen will give his position to the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, Mr. Secretary! The Local Elections Act has been the subject of several debates in this Chamber, particularly concerning independent papers. For the third time, the Minister for Local Self-Government or Government has attempted to limit the participation of independent papers and candidates in municipal elections. Let me just mention that the council and mayoral candidates have begun to show off their success in the 2002 local elections. But they were only confirmed last year, with 68 of the 210 elected mayors independent and 425 saints elected on independent lists, making it quite confusing for political parties. The first attempt to limit the time immediately after the 2004 parliamentary elections, when the threshold of the signatures collected for the submission of the candidacy with 15 voters' signatures wanted to raise to an unattainable 4% of the electorate. The attempt failed, but only a few months later, a law was passed that we opposed to by DeSUS Members, which stipulated that independent candidates had to participate in the elections, that 2% of the voters' signatures should be collected. In the meantime, however, the Constitutional Court, which annulled this part of the law with an explanation that such a high threshold for entry into the electoral competition would allow independent candidates to run for councillors. As the elections did not change the law, it was stipulated that the candidate for election should collect 15 signatures. Now the government proposes that the number of signatures for the submission of the list of independent candidates for municipal councilors should rise to at least 1% of the number of voters who voted in the last regular elections to the municipal council, but not less than 15 and not more than 1000 signatures. However, those who will compete for the mayor's city must collect signatures for the candidacy of at least 2% of the voters who voted in the municipality in the last mayoral elections, but not less than 15 and not more than 2500. The parties' candidates for councillors and mayors for the submission of the application do not need to be accompanied by any signatures. It is clear from this that we have some concerns in our parliamentary group about the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections. However, the view of upholding the law prevailed.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u62	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we will have a third hearing, which is a vote on the bill, to be held tomorrow. This is 22 in the framework of the votes. With this, I also interrupt this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. We have an estimated 3 hours and 45 minutes of debate for this item. The draft law has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, so I would like to reiterate my point of view to the Minister, Mr Ivan Žagar, for an introductory explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The purpose and purpose of the proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government is first to comply with the Constitutional Act amending Articles 140 and 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia relating to the provinces and to transfer the tasks from State jurisdiction to the municipalities. As the situation of the province is changing due to the amended Constitution and comprehensive provincial legislation is being prepared, provisions relating to the province are deleted in the proposed law and the entire text replaces the self-government local community with the word "municipality". Consistency with the decision of the Constitutional Court which repealed the decision of the Law on Local Self-Government, which was regulated by the complaint of the applicant at the decision of the National Assembly on a proposal to change the area of the new municipality or to establish a new municipality to the Constitutional Court. With the proposed amendment, the competent authority is now the Administrative Court. The proposed law also contains amendments and additions in order to harmonise systemic solutions in the field of local self-government with the system of public servants, the Law on Public Servants, the Law on Inspection and the Law on Public Administration, the Public Sector Wage Scheme and the rules on the financing of municipalities and public finances. In doing so, I stress that the proposed law originally regulates those matters which do not contain those laws. This applies in particular to the legal framework for determining the material rights of non-professional officials. The proposed text also contains amendments and additions resulting from the operation of municipalities. In particular, the law lays down a framework for the establishment of the bodies of the Joint Municipal Administrations. These provisions had to be aligned with the Public Finance Act and the Public Servants Act, by placing their position and management in the public finances system and the public servants system. However, the transitional provisions stipulate that municipalities in the area in which the Government is to be defined by the Autochthonous Roma Community will have to harmonise the composition of the municipal council and ensure that the Roma representative in the municipal council until the first regular elections to the municipal council after the regulation has been implemented. That Regulation should provide for uniform criteria and criteria for all municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia by which a representative of Roma is appointed in the municipal council. I therefore propose to the Members and Members that you support this law and thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u64	Thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Jazbec, to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At its 13th regular meeting on 6.6.2007, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the draft law amending and supplementing the law on local self-government submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the legislative and legal service has examined that proposal in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. In addition to the editorial comments to the individual article, she specifically pointed out the content of Article 15 in view of the fact that the text of the article should include the content of the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that in those municipalities where the representative of the Roma Community is elected to the municipal council, a special working body shall also be established in the municipal council to monitor the situation of the Roma community in accordance with the law governing local self-government. This would ensure that the municipal councils in the municipalities in which the representative of the Roma community is elected will be able to establish these working bodies within the time limit set out in Article 16, paragraph 1. In her comments to Article 17, she noted, inter alia, that the proposed amendments and additions to Article 49b of the Law provided for a solution whereby the Joint Management Authority would acquire the position of direct beneficiary of the municipal budget of the municipality in which it is established, taking into account the definition of the term "direct user". In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee went on to discuss the articles of the bill. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following qualified candidates have tabled amendments to the draft law: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS (Articles 1, 4, 15 and 17) to Articles 14, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia and the Member of Parliament, Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem (Articles 15 and 27). The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 4, 15 and 17 of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups. The Committee did not adopt the amendment to Article 14 of the LDS and the amendment to Article 15 of the Parliament, Mrs Cvetke Zalokar Orazem. The Committee also adopted the amendment as an amendment to Article 1. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee has set out the text of the amended draft law which forms an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u66	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jazbec will also give the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u67	Thank you. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on local self-government. The law is designed to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia repealing Article 14a, which replaces the provision under which different legal protection is provided; to comply with the Constitutional Act amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia relating to amendments relating to the transfer of tasks from State jurisdiction to municipalities and to the provisions on provinces; to comply with the Law on Civil Servants, the Law on the System of Salaries in the Public Sector, the Law on Inspection, the Law on State Administration and the Law on the Salaries of Officials. The bill is based on the principle of local self-government autonomy as defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on Local Self-Government and the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The main solutions to the proposed law are as follows. Since the amended Constitution changes the situation of the provinces and prepares the entire provincial legislation, the proposed law only refers to municipalities as the basic self-government local communities. Article 2, first and third paragraphs of Article 2 of the Law on Local Self-Government, which is linked to Article 9 of the amendment amendment amending Article 24 of the Law on Local Self-Government, shall be deleted from Article 2. The financing of delegated tasks is more precisely laid down by the Law on the Financing of the Communities. Article 5 of this Law provides that the law conferring upon the municipality individual tasks under national jurisdiction shall provide for a means of providing the resources to be provided by the State. The State must provide funding to the municipality in proportion to the type and extent of the tasks transferred. Following a proposal for a law, test the decision of the National Assembly in the event of a possible action against the decision of the National Assembly on a proposal to change the territory of the municipality or to establish a new municipality, the Constitutional Court, which also decides on the matter. Paragraph 15(b) of the amended Article suggests that in deciding on any complaints made by candidates or representatives of candidates of municipal councils, as a proposal for a decision, the municipal electoral commission report on the outcome of the vote shall be used for the mayor. The amended Article 19 is supplemented by a provision on the incompatibility of members of the councils of the smaller parts of the congregation. Article 21a is proposed on the basis of the proposal of the Ministry of the Interior, the fourth indent has been amended and the initiative of the municipalities to enable them to access other data from the database on the basis of a request, if it is provided by law and if that information is necessary for the exercise of their own, by law-defined powers. The second paragraph of Article 33 has been amended. It sets out an example of the early termination of the mayor's term of office, which requires that the replacement elections be declared. The addition of Article 34a in the five new paragraphs summarises the content of Article 100b of the Law on Local Self-Government relating to non-professional municipal officials. With the new pay system, only the salaries of professional officials are determined in the system wage law and in the decision on the salaries of officials. Therefore, in a special law, the Law on Local Self-Government, it was necessary to arrange payments for non-professional municipal officials. Article 37b adds that the incompatibilities of a member of the congregation council in addition to the incompatibilities of the municipal administration are extended to incompatibilities in the service of the local congregation. As a result of the problems that have arisen in previous mandates in the municipal council regarding the non-compliance of the statutes with Article 101a of the Law, the appointment of a Roma councillor, a new seventh paragraph is added to Article 39 of the Act. It is proposed that the Government adopt a regulation laying down the criteria and criteria on the basis of which the autonomy of the inhabited Roma community is determined, which is a condition for the appointment of Roma representatives in the municipal council. Articles 49, 49b and 50 of the Law on Local Self-Government are also added. As has already been said, the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pečan will give her position to the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u69	Good day again and thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President! In the Group of Social Democrats, we are dissatisfied with the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government. In addition to the amendments necessary for the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the deletion of articles relating to the provinces, the amendments are introduced mainly because of the known requirements of the so-called territory. Thus, for example, the amendment of Article 39, which is prepared, as it appears, at the request of a congregation in Dolenjsk, and in order not to be offended, should be recognized in this statement. It is similar to the amendment or deletion of Article 33a, paragraph 3. Here it is possible to set very precisely the date of the event for which the change was made, as well as the name and function of the person for whom the deletion was proposed. This coalition and its government have, for the third or fourth time in this mandate, amended the laws because of individuals with precisely defined and amended laws with pre-known names and surnames. Let me just remind you, for example, of the amendment of the Judicial Service Act, or the abolition of the Anti-Corruption Act, or, for example, the Public Procurement Procedure Act, not to mention others. Similarly, the introduction of the incompatibilities of work in a narrower part of the congregation with a secular function. Here too, the name and name are known, except that the change is made in another direction. While - indeed interesting - the incompatibilities of the mayoral function with the position of director in a public office or in a public company whose founder is a municipality, as proposed by the Social Democrats on the Committee, is not at all problematic. Interesting. The official proposing to the municipal council the adoption of the budget and the acts establishing and conferring powers on individual institutions and undertakings owned by the municipality, the official who executes the budget and directs the dynamics, according to the Government, the Minister for Local Self-Government and the Coalition Members of the Committee on Local Self-Government, is not exposed to a conflict of interest and will take full care of the fair and fair distribution of municipal money to all indirect budgetary users without distinction. Let him believe who he can. If such a way and such reasons for amending legislation can be called something other than the law of clientelism and corruption, then we ask all those who have sound reasons for a different interpretation or designation to prove it. We have evidence with names, dates and documents. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, on the 15th Article, which "should have resolved the problems" - under quotations, I quote the explanation given by the proposer - "for the problems that have arisen in the past mandates of the municipal councils regarding the non-conformity of the statutes with Article 101 of the law, the establishment of a Roma councillor to ensure the same treatment of Roma in indigenously populated areas in Slovenia, and the protection of their interests, as well as the fact that the boundaries of the municipalities can be changed before each local election and, consequently, the newly formed municipality does not have a Roma representative, although it has been expelled from the municipality where their representative is loved in the municipal council, the Government has to set criteria and criteria for determining the autonomy of the inhabited Roma community". End of quote. The Group of Members has therefore tabled an amendment which, for the first time, eliminates the non-constitutional use of the term 'the autonomy of the Roma community', since there is no such concept in the Constitution, it applies only to the national communities of Italians and Hungarians. Article 65 of the Constitution states: "The position and special rights of the Roma community living in Slovenia..." - so no, "which is an indigenous in Slovenia" - "makes the law". Secondly, it solves the problem of extensive powers of the Government in determining the criteria for determining the sustainable population of Roma in the individual newly formed municipality, and recalls the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly in its opinion on the amended bill. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Thirdly, it allows the establishment of a working body to monitor the situation of the Roma community and the possibility of Roma participation in the working bodies of the municipal council. In this way, the situation of Roma will be achieved in the co-ordination of the municipality in which they are permanently populated, in order to be comparable to that of the Italian or Hungarian communities in the national mixed municipalities, as well as with the example of one of the southern Slovene municipalities where these issues are substantially better regulated than there, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] where there are no Roma at all. [[...]] At the same time, the abuse of the government's extensive powers regarding the establishment of criteria for the permanent population of Roma for the realization of the wishes of certain municipalities in order to exclude Roma from public life will be prevented [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u70	Please, if you finish [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u71	their local communities. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u72	Thank you. My colleague Miran Jerič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u73	Dear President! Colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we support the proposed amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government, as this amendment aligns the individual provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, with the provisions of other sectoral laws and corrects certain shortcomings that have been shown in practice. And of course, they comply with the provisions of the Constitutional Act amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution of Slovenia. In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support the following main solutions of the proposed law: the harmonisation of the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government relating to the transfer of State tasks with the Law on the Financing of Municipalities; the establishment of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia as the competent authority for the examination of the decision of the National Assembly in the event of a possible action against the Decision of the National Assembly on a proposal for a change in the territory of the municipality or for the establishment of a new municipality; the decision on possible complaints by candidates or representatives of candidates shall be taken by the municipal council as the basis of a decision to use the report of the municipal electoral commission on the outcome of the vote for the mayor; and the provision of access to municipalities, on the basis of a request, to other data from the database if it is required by law and if the municipality is required to carry out its statutory powers and tasks. Amendments relating, for example, to the early termination of the mayor's term of office, for which it is necessary to declare the replacement elections and to supplement the provisions relating to payments for non-professional municipal officials, mayors, mayors and members of municipal councils. With regard to the changes relating to determining the incompatibility of members of the municipal council, the LDS supports a provision which provides for the incompatibility of members of the councils of the smaller parts of the municipalities. We regret, however, that the ruling coalition on the parent labour body did not support our amendment's proposal concerning a provision by which the Government proposes to delete the incompatibilities of the function of a member of the municipal council by leading an internal organisational unit in the administrative unit. In addition, the Government stated that the need for this incompatibility had been eliminated by amendments to the Law on State Administration since it was no longer intended to determine the powers of administrative units to control the legality of the work of the municipal authorities. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we feel differently. Why? The Law on Administration in Article 64 provides that ministries, each in their own field, shall, in exercising control over the legality of the work of local authorities, monitor the legality of the general and individual acts issued by local authorities, and Article 49 provides that the administrative unit shall notify the competent ministry if it finds that the local community authorities are acting unlawfully in the performance of tasks under the jurisdiction of local communities. The administrative unit must also alert the competent ministry if it finds that the authorities of the local communities act inappropriately and unprofessionally in the tasks of national competence delegated to the local community. Taking these two provisions into account, it is difficult to argue that administrative units no longer have jurisdiction over the supervision of the legality of the work of the municipal authorities. We believe that this change is not justified but is more due to a political decision based on examples of practices that do not respond to the ruling coalition. Taking into account the powers of the administrative unit, its organisation and, above all, the competences of the heads of internal organisational units, we believe that it is necessary to maintain incompatibility. In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law on local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u74	Thank you, too. And colleague Martin Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. And once again, all warmly greeted. The proposal to amend the basic law, which has regulated local self-government so far, firstly brings compliance with the Constitutional Law. The amendment of the Constitution provided a basis for the systematic establishment of the provinces as self-government local communities of wider importance. We did not oppose amendments to the Constitution in the New Slovenia Group, so we cannot oppose amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government because it is a matter of harmonisation. The formation, establishment and operation of the provinces will be governed by new legislation and the Law on Local Self-Government will therefore delete the entire chapter on the provinces. Further harmonisation relates to a decision of the Constitutional Court requiring the regulation of legal protection of applicants for changes in the territory of the municipality. We know that the National Assembly has adopted a decision allowing for the formation of new municipalities, but can also change the area. The proposers could only give the initiative to the Constitutional Court and the amendment could open an administrative dispute against the decision of the National Assembly. The case must be decided by the court in the 30s or in the 30s. The proposal also provides a more precise and complementary definition of the forms of incompatibility of functions. In the New Slovenia Group, we are particularly pleased that our observation has been taken into account that with the introduction of the novel there is already a change that will allow the heads of internal organisational units of the administrative unit to be saints. The proposal also aligns local community legislation with the Public Servants Act and the Public Sector Wage System Act. It provides for payments for non-professional municipal officials, mayors, mayors and members of municipal councils, and we must mention that the Court of Auditors has often identified certain irregularities in this area. It is also important that, should the proposal be adopted, the Government lays down the criteria and criteria for the identification of representatives of indigenous Roma communities in municipal councils. The amendment will also give municipalities the opportunity to obtain data from the database managers they need to carry out their own, by law-defined powers. In the New Slovenia Group, we estimate that it has been a time for such a provision, since the municipalities often have great difficulties in obtaining a variety of data that they collect and are not allowed to see. The financial functioning of the bodies of the Joint Municipal Administration shall also be regulated in more detail. In the New Slovenia Group, we strongly supported the amendments to the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which in 2005 introduced co-financing of the activities of the Joint Municipal Administrations. Co-financing accounts for 50% of the expenditure implemented in the municipal budget in the previous year to finance the joint performance of the tasks, which certainly encourages the municipalities to work more rationally. However, the draft law sets out in more detail the financial operation, management and method of setting up these bodies. In the New Slovenia Group, we advocate the right of local communities to regulate and manage independently all public matters relating to the lives and works of the inhabitants in their area, without prejudice to the rights and obligations of other local communities. The management system must be as close to people as possible and must enable successful planning and coordination of different interests. The amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government will help to this end, so we will also support it in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Comrade Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u77	Your Honor! The fundamental substantive amendment to the proposed amendment to the Law on Local Self-Government refers to the amendments necessary for the adoption of the Constitutional Law, by which we simplified the grounds for establishing the provinces and to the decision of the Constitutional Court, by which the possibility of appeal against the decision of the National Assembly was annulled. We are rapidly preparing provincial legislation in Slovenia, which means that we will soon establish the provinces as a wider self-government local community in addition to the municipalities. In this regard, the proposed amendment to the law is terminologyally correcting the designation of municipalities for which the term'self-governing local community' is used by law. This is, of course, appropriately replaced by the word "municipality". The second, substantively more important adjustment to the proposed law, relates to the transfer of tasks from state jurisdiction to the municipality. In the event of amendments to the Constitution, it was no longer stipulated that the consent of the congregation was necessary for the transfer of these powers. It's a clear and logical arrangement. The current condition of the local community's consent was, of course, to the fact that there were no transfers of tasks with national competences, which is not the most rational, especially if these tasks in the municipality can be performed more efficiently and more rationally. Of course, the amendments to the Constitution and the related proposed amendments to the Local Self-Government Act do not detract States from providing the necessary resources for the performance of delegated tasks, if necessary, in the event of a transfer of powers. In accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, it is incumbent upon the Administrative Court to decide on a possible appeal against a decision of the National Assembly on a proposal to change the territory of the municipality or to establish a new municipality. The proposed solution is, in our view, appropriate, since the competence of the Constitutional Court to decide on those complaints was actually questionable and illogical, which, of course, was also confirmed by the Constitutional Court by its decision. Today's consideration of this law will probably involve some debate on the proposed article, which aims to resolve the problems that have arisen in the past mandates of municipal councils due to the lack of alignment of municipal statutes with the law regarding the appointment of a Roma councillor. We believe that the proposed regulation is appropriate. Other amendments to the Law are due to legislative changes and there is no reason to oppose them. We will support the proposed changes in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u78	Thank you, too. Ms Kvetka Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Non-Related Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! During the proposed amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, the unrelated Members of the Association are indeed strongly opposed to the two proposals. We do not agree with the proposed innovation in the area of non-compatibilities, which, on the one hand, extends to the field of service in the smaller parts of the municipalities, i.e. in the local communities and in the fourth communities, and on the other, deletes and permits the simultaneous exercise of the function of a member of the municipal council or a member of the county as head of the internal organisational unit in the administrative unit. This solution is bad, as it can lead to difficulties in carrying out tasks while performing both functions and the expected conflict of interest. This can best be illustrated, for example, by the work of the Head of the Administrative Unit for Space, by exercising control over the municipality at the same time and by carrying out concrete acts, i.e. building permits, adopted solutions to the municipal council, sitting in the municipal council and influencing the adoption of spatial acts of the municipality. Many specific cases of abuse and irregularities, obstruction and delay in some environments are already known here, and are extremely inappropriate. Instead of trying and preventing corruption, clientism and illegality, this, with such solutions, the ruling coalition has even encouraged and blinded its eyes to reality. Therefore, we believe that this solution is not acceptable and should even be extended substantially. Therefore, it is also clear to establish incompatibility, for example, in the area of inspectors who operate and supervise the operation of a municipality, as well as absolutely to directors of public undertakings in the field of economic public services, utilities and the like. The second solution, which we also oppose, is that, according to the new Government, the regulation will set criteria and criteria for defining the indigenous community. There are already congregations in the existing law, 20 of which must have at least one Romani saint in the congregation. This was stated in the law by the embarrassment of determining the autonomy of the Roma in a particular area, so the law cited such congregations. We have adopted such a solution on the basis of a proposal from the Nationality Office. This solution has also been judged before the Constitutional Court, and this has ruled that such a designation and designation of municipalities is not in conflict with the Constitution, I stress. However, due to problems and resistance in practice, the Government is obviously now adding a completely inappropriate solution, which we believe is also constitutionally controversial. The question is whether the Government can, by means of a regulation, adopt criteria and criteria for autonomy by means of a sub-legislative act, without giving the law the criteria and criteria and the basis for that decision. Such a solution is also not acceptable in terms of the protection and enforcement of the principle of legality, since, by means of sub-legislative acts, which is a government regulation, the rules of limitations and the conditions for the exercise of those rights should not be regulated. So it can happen that each Government adopts different criteria and criteria according to its own sense within each mandate, and so these conditions are constantly changing. The law also does not solve the question of what will happen if one of the municipalities referred to in Article 101 is no longer among those who must have a Romani councillor under the government regulation. By the way, can anyone tell me exactly what autonomy is? What's she tied to? For what period? Years or decades, centuries? What's the count? This saves the interference with the guaranteed rights of the Roma community, so we have prepared an amendment by the unrelated Members of the Association, which deletes this solution, and instead requires the municipalities, which are determined to have a Roma representative in the municipal council, to set up a commission to resolve Roma issues, as such a commission is necessary and certainly useful in these environments.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Colleague Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, Mr President. Your Honors are here! I'm not going to go into that to explain to you again the explanation of the law, because I believe you know it, what some of my predecessors have done. However, I will concentrate on three articles of the law and would also be happy to ask for an answer or a opinion from the representatives of the Government. First, Article 9 seems to me that if a State by law transfers to a municipality the performance of individual tasks under State jurisdiction, the State also provides financial resources for the performance of these tasks, it seems to me that this is a very correct solution. But I'm interested in the first question. Dear Mr. Secretary! 37.b., incompatibilities - in the three paragraphs you solved it and then you even changed something. When it is not the function of members of the municipal council and the mayor, you have written down, it is not compatible with the function of the mayor, it is not compatible with the membership of the supervisory committee and with the work of the municipal administration, but, on the ground, I think, I am asking, in particular in the case that it is in Maribor, whether it is compatible with the position of director or the president of the administration of a public company. These things happen in Maribor, and I think that, given that we know that the competence of the municipality when we talk about public companies to provide and finance and operate and determine the price of the services of an individual public company, it seems to me that this function is also not the most compatible with the function of a member of the city council, given that it then decides on itself. Last but not least, he also decides about himself when it comes to his appointment or his release. And it seems to me that this function, insofar as the Government would approach the principle that this function is also incompatible with the function of a member of the city council, would be, I think, one correct solution, both to people and to this man himself. I don't know, in Maribor we have quite a few people who are directors of various public institutions, and even when it comes to defending themselves when it comes to some mistakes, they don't. It seems to me that this would be worth considering and any changes to this article of the law. As far as article 15 of the Act is concerned, this is the autonomy of individual groups. I think they're talking directly about the authenticity of the Roma in a certain congregation. Let me know which congregation Roma are indigenous. There aren't any. That's what we've been up to. They came when they came, and came and went, just as it seemed to them. The authenticity of the Roma is gone. We've identified some congregations where this autonomy is supposed to be, we've given them a saint, I don't know what else to give them. As for the amendments proposed by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, of course, later on in the debate of the amendments, when we speak, but the Minister, indeed, concerning 37b. I find the article very unhygienic for an individual municipality, that the director of a public undertaking or a public institution may also be a city councillor at the same time, and I really ask you for your opinion and your explanation of this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u82	Thank you, too. The Ambassador, Mrs Maria Pozsonec, will present the position of the national community. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u83	Thank you so much for saying that. The bill is based on the principle of autonomous local self-government as defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on Local Self-Government and the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The purpose of the bill is to comply with the Constitutional Act amending Articles 140 and 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia relating to the provinces and other legislation. Therefore, the proposed law deletes the provisions relating to the provinces and replaces the entire text with the word'municipality'. The transfer of State tasks requires harmonisation so that there is no longer a specific agreement of the municipalities for the transfer of the tasks of State jurisdiction to the municipality. However, the financing of the tasks transferred is more precisely defined by the Law on the Financing of the Communities. The bill also contains amendments and additions resulting from the operation of municipalities, mainly from the operation or organisation of joint municipal administrations. We believe the laws are worthy of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u84	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the members of the group and are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be led by Vice-President Klavor on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u85	I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? Check-in is on. Mr. Bogdan Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office, colleagues, colleagues. We have two amendments, if I'm not mistaken, in the review of Article 15. I would turn to the one who says that in a municipality where Roma have at least one representative in the municipal council, a special working body is established in the municipal council to monitor the situation of the Roma community. I wouldn't want you to get me wrong. There are Muslim communities in the Sava congregations, because there were 200 and several years of mines, there are Serb communities, there are Croatian communities. Where is the logic of finding such solutions? I just don't understand! I don't think such an amendment can hold up, but it can't stand it if you don't read nationalism and I don't know what else to hold on to for all communities. In Slovenia there is a very clear law on how local communities are established, which are representatives of the municipal councils. Now we will have, I hope, regions and regional councils, and this is not going to work, it is not going to work. Whether it is necessary to take all communities that are such or different - if they are, on what they are, why they are - or none! And for the third time this week in the Slovenian National Party, we stress the duality that is happening. In one week alone, we warn three times that we cannot be so double, we cannot adopt, support the law, leave the tobacco law now and go outside to smoke. That's ugly, that's two-faced. We cannot support one community when we have two or three others for whom we "don't care", I will say in the old Yugoslav language or even in Slovenian; "don't worry" sounds good, it doesn't work. We cannot design ourselves, create special working bodies to monitor the situation of something - yes, we can, but the community is more! Ladies and gentlemen, it's not just Romani, the community is more! And let's not make exceptions and not be hypocritical, double-faced so that we can be servants of Europe. Europe has no idea, Europe is weakening all that 'does not fit' them, I am, into new countries. And let's be honest with the Slovenes for once and take it all together or nobody. I am absolutely against such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u87	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u88	Thank you very much. So, I would like to justify why we proposed the word "autoutonic" to replace it with the word "sustainable". Not only because the Constitution does not use the term "autohtono" inhabited Roma or "autohtono" living Roma in Article 65, but it is only about Roma living in a municipality. Here I can probably understand that it was thought that the constitutional body at the time thought of the Roma as a people, of a nation that did not live autonomously practically anywhere, but lived permanently inhabited. And that's the essential difference. One is - at least in Slovenia we somehow distinguish between these two concepts: the indigenous peoples are those who live in a few hundred years in an area, while the Roma, we know that they are still basically nomadic people, who, in the last 100 years or 50 years, have become much more stable than we were or, as they once were, had a habit of living, but we have difficulty talking about autonomy. And because of this, the term "autochton, autochthonousness, indigenous community" - such a use of this concept in this law is inappropriate. So there are two reasons, one is real, the result of the actual situation, and the other is what the Constitution says. Second. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service reiterates - and I think that we have probably not clearly stated in this amendment - in what way should the criteria for the permanent population of Roma be determined, which is the basis for having a Roma representative in the individual municipality. I would point out that, say, Ljubljana is not among the 20 municipalities that Maribor is not among the 20 municipalities, but this is certainly - although I do not have accurate data, but according to the information I have been able to get quickly, there are significantly more Roma in Ljubljana than, say, Italians in Koper or Isol. It is said that there is still a valid reason - and this is the permanently populated Roma, not the Roma, who are here today and 14 days later; the Roma, who are permanently populated. And because of this, now in Ljubljana they are seriously thinking about building, I must apologize for the ugly expression, but the ghetto for the Roma. I think it's the most wrong way to solve the problem of the Roma to squeeze them into a closed environment and say, but now you're going to live isolated from the rest of the population. For this reason, I believe that this amendment to paragraph 6 of this Article is, in fact, only a proposal that may then be further corrected in the third reading, supplemented and written, which criteria, in agreement with the representatives of the Roma Community in Slovenia, the Government should take into account, or perhaps better, that this would be the State Assembly. The new seventh paragraph does not, in fact, prescribe but stipulates that it is mandatory to establish a special working body to monitor the situation of the Roma community, but that the membership of the Roma in individual other working bodies, everyday working bodies held by the municipal councils, is not compulsory. However, if the Roma feel the need and have representatives who would like to participate in these working bodies, they are appointed or proposed and elected. What's this all about? The special working body - of course, we fully agree with the Parliamentary Group of Non-Aligned Members, the Society of Zares - is in fact a necessity, in some ways even more than the special working body we have in the municipalities where representatives of the Italian or Hungarian national communities live. Why? Because of living conditions, working conditions, educational conditions and everything else, it is said that the socialisation of Roma is significantly worse than that of Italians and Hungarians. Therefore, no one prevents or prohibits municipalities where there are larger communities of individual nationalities, with the roots of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, so that the municipality can decide and by statute determine that it has a special working body to deal with the problems of the Serb community, the Croatian community, the Macedonian community or any other Bosnian community, for example. Who says you can't do that? However, this is not a constitutional category! We have three national communities in our constitution, namely two indigenous - Italian and Hungarian - and one Roma. There's a significant difference. Thus, the Constitution commands us to do what we must do in the Roma congregations or where the Italians live or where the Hungarians live. While all other national communities, which may be well articulate, form some connections, actively participate in public life in the congregation - who says that such a community has no opportunity to get a representative, of course, on the basis of the statute. The law and the constitution don't forbid it! However, the municipal statute can be adapted to such a state and the municipal council can also take all necessary steps to promote the interests of these probably numerous communities that appear in individual municipalities. I think because I have to say that I hardly believe that the National Assembly will accept this amendment, because we know what the climate is in the National Assembly, and I can tell you that unless this amendment is adopted, we will support the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. I think it would be almost good that, if the legislative and legal services continue to insist that the new sixth paragraph, as amended by paragraph 6, is not a suitable solution in our amendment, given what they have stated in their opinion on the complementary proposal, we are also prepared to delete this paragraph and amend the amendment by withdrawing the amendment with regard to the deletion of the new sixth paragraph in the 39th Article of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u89	Thank you. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of Non-Related Members of the Association has really tabled an amendment that I would like to explain even more precisely than I may have in presenting our position. We certainly believe that this solution, which the Government has written in the law, is totally inappropriate and that the Government is going down on an extremely slippery terrain; in particular, we believe that such a solution will certainly, of course, end up in the Constitutional Court if interest arises. Last but not least, we were able to read in the media that such a solution was extremely discontented by the representatives of the Roma community, that they were surprised or that this solution was not negotiated with them. This means that, in fact, this autonomy, which forces and somehow the government is supposed to invent the formula, the government is supposed to find a miraculous solution to what autonomy is, it's actually science fiction to me. I went to some of those books that most accurately explain what it means - of course, the government will certainly not be able to do much to help itself. For example, in the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language it says that autochthon is an adjective of origin - that is, someone is an autochthon - which is originally from where he lives; homely, the first. Then he talks about indigenous peoples and inhabitants, indigenous plants and the like. If there's anything you can do to help, I hope you're so wise, but I think you'll come to a very slippery ground. And on the basis of such provisions, the Government has taken the right to determine the criteria and criteria. By means of a sub-law, it will settle something that is impossible to settle, and this right to the nationality of the community that we have enshrined in the Constitution. This national community has a special status in our constitution and the constitution states that their position is regulated by law. And now we are going to have 210 for all these municipalities, and I don't know how many Slovenian municipalities have set criteria and criteria for somehow counting, because otherwise I don't know how this autonomy is going to be expressed, how many Roma there are. Of course, it must be said that it will also be difficult because it is in this nation or in this community that they are constantly moving. Except, of course, if we want to change their essence in Slovenia, their most prominent features, with music being of course extremely pleasing to us, that we may have problems or that we have problems as the majority of the population, we would like to ignore them. I do not think that this solution is appropriate and that you will get involved in serious problems, because the fact is that the Constitutional Court has established and, for example, the municipalities, Grosuplje, who in no way wants to settle this problem and does not appoint a councillor to the municipal council, the municipalities have gone to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court has found that this is not unconstitutional, that the law lists 20 municipalities. The Constitutional Court didn't find out! That's why you left this article of the law in your marriage. And what's going to happen is just logic. What will happen if, according to the criteria and criteria of the Government in Slovenia, such municipalities are only 5 or 3 and 20 will be written in the law? Then what will prevail? The submarital act of criteria and criteria or the Government intends to write such criteria and criteria to cover all these 20 congregations, which I doubt. Because I think it's embarrassing because the problem is emerging in the congregation from which the Prime Minister comes. And it's probably not something that's so negligible in this story. Because only this municipality is the only one in Slovenia who cannot solve this problem or has a permanent problem with the approval and amendment of the statute. And, of course, because they don't know it in Grosuplje, they can't do it, we're going to adopt a law that will start to determine autonomy. I've asked the public several times before, I'm going to ask again - I want to know what the criteria and criteria can be. What profession will give you the basis for what, how many years of this homeliness and originality and life in a congregation will this set? It's gonna be 10 years, it's gonna be 50 years, it's gonna be 500 years, it's gonna be 2,000 years? What's the criteria? This will be the number as a percentage of how many there must be - something that is very painful for Slovenians, because this is happening to our Slovenians somewhere else. I think it is an extremely inappropriate solution, which does not fall within the scope of this government - I hope that perhaps honestly, although by actions it is not always noticeable - seeks to solve the Roma problem in Slovenia. And, of course, I am convinced that by this solution, the government is interfering with the already guaranteed rights of the Roma community when it sets criteria and criteria for this autonomy. But only the identification of the existence will then, I will say, what seems even more controversial to me, leave to the congregations, in fact, to fit into these criteria and criteria. In my opinion, it will allow the congregations to arbitrarily, politically decide whether or not they will have a Romani saint. I believe that all the environments that really seek to live in co-existence with the Roma community know that this solution, that they have a Roma saint in the municipal world, is good. It would be even better if we also accepted that part of our amendment, which is talking about setting up a commission. In such environments, such a commission can make a lot of difference, more than this Regulation of yours on definitions and criteria, because only conversation, only cooperation, only dialogue with the Roma community can lead to solutions, co-existence and that we will not have Ambrusi and similar cases. Therefore, I believe that our amendment is good, for we propose that the law also states that if a certain political arrangement in a congregation does not see it alone, we help them with the legal requirement and the legal obligation. For when people sit at the table, many barriers fall, many prejudices fall, and in this we see the meaning of our proposal that such commissions exist in these environments. I'm sure many already exist, and I know they exist, and they cooperate well. And there let us all learn together how to build a cohabitation with the Roma community. That is how I feel and once again advise the Government not to step on this slippery terrain, not to take on its own shoulders responsibility for not seeing one of the congregations, not wanting or obeying, clearly not subjecting itself, by amending the statute to legal obligations. You haven't gone the other way the law gives you. The law gives other ways to reprove a congregation that does not want to cooperate and does not act legally. You are obviously due to the pedigree that this congregation has, according to who is from there, and many other senior government officials are from there, including members of this congregation council in Grosuplje, of course we have gone - not on the way to convince Grosuplje, but on the way to prepare such criteria and criteria that maybe Grosuplje will be a congregation where, according to these rules and criteria of the government, I suppose, we will not have to have a Romani saint. Not that the problem is settled, but to show some kind of power, an argument of power and power. I think it would be right not to blind ourselves, what and how we see this matter, at least that's how we see it, and we believe that this service for local self-government was not to be regulated in any way. Of course, we find the solution inappropriate. Once again, I would like a legal opinion, because what the Legislative and Legal Service has also warned you about is that it is necessary to state the basic criteria and criteria for determining what you want in law. And then a submarital act can be written, eventually, I'll say, only under the authority of the government. These criteria are not available; they cannot be established, they are not in law and here the Government goes far beyond its constitutional powers, in my opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! I myself, like my fellow Member Barovic, will oppose both amendments, which is why I have quite a few reasons for this. If I go first to the first amendment of the SD Group: "The government shall, in agreement with the representative Roma associations in the Republic of Slovenia, set out the criteria and criteria on the basis of which permanent population is defined," in relation to the Roma associations or associations. The point, as we have heard, of individual Roma communities or Roma is migration, they are nomads. If you ask them when a Rom is permanently inhabited in some territory or territory of our country, I think three days is the maximum that you will reach, and since then it has been permanently inhabited - according to them. These include more or less day-to-day migrations because they have to change locations where they are, either because of themselves or because of their nature or because of something else. We already have problems with some Romani saints because their essence is migration. I've been a saint in this town for a month, and I'm swinging elsewhere. It is already here that fear is that any congregational world will stand without a Romani saint, even though it is guaranteed by law. It compares Slovenians or the problems of Slovenians living in place and around the world, with "difficulties" - in quotations - that Roma in Slovenia are supposed to have, but it seems to me that I will not be a grave, "underground". These problems are Slovenians, I'll say, or comparisons like that, but the Slovenians really don't deserve them. To talk about being nomads while at the same time giving them sustainability and autonomy! I also think it's a kind of duplicity. To further establish working bodies, individual working bodies of a particular municipal body, or to force municipal councils to establish some new working bodies just because they are competent or present as a Romani councillor, it seems at all strange to me. The working bodies are determined by the rules of procedure of each municipal council. This law will require these municipal councils to change the rules of procedure. They'll have to! Whether or not the majority of the congregation will agree. So, we're pushing them to do something. And so, let me tell you, we like to talk about positive discrimination. Kolga Barovic has already talked about how many other communities still exist in individual municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia. Then we have to have a working body, I don't know, for reapers, fruit pickers, or I don't know who else. We talked earlier about the Law on Local Self-Government and the elections. As I mentioned, how many of these lists were of different interest associations and communities that ran in local elections. Let us take the theoretical assumption that everyone has succeeded in reaching the congregation council. Then at least one of them could have an individual working body to observe and monitor his problems - if we are already giving it or want to legalise it for the Roma. Personally, I ask myself, but I believe, because I see that one of the proponents has come to the floor; what the hell did the Roma deserve, or should they deserve it? With what? What, though, have they done for this country, or must this country do for them to have a special working body? In fact, I would understand if this country asked them to start living normally, like all the other Slovenians in this country, to start paying taxes to start going to school to start, I don't know, "losing" crimes. On Sunday, I was very lucky and went to a business fair in Maribor. It's a crime scene. I am sorry that where this crime is brewing, the largest number of members of the Roma communities have stopped. It's been a long time since this crime! Would they not first provide these normal conditions to these people and then give them some new rights; or would they be taught to live normally and then be given additional rights? Then that's what I deserve, and I deserve my colleague Barovic, and you all, and my child, and someone else. Then why don't we deserve it? They have the possibility of running to the city councils of individual local communities in one way or another. Some even tried in some congregations, unfortunately they did not reach the threshold. I'm sorry. As much power as it is, and as much influence as it is supposed to have, we will also achieve in the individual municipal world the creation of a new working body - fine if the congregation council accepts it. Just don't give them the law to impose certain duties that they fear for themselves. I apologize - not duty, but justice. Or even their responsibility, they will then be obliged to cooperate, even though they may not or may not want to. We're all tired together, I think, of these people without need, for no reason at all. I'm just wondering why we don't teach them how to live as we do in this country, but then let's give them something more, even though I won't do it then, because I don't think anyone's entitled to get anything more in this country. We are all equal before the law, and by the constitution, no one is worth more and no one is worth less. But I'd like to be, maybe that's when I, or someone else, is worth more, because I'm going to do something about it. Therefore, I simply cannot support these amendments and I think that the solution, as proposed by the Government, is somehow the best if anything has to be resolved in their field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u93	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u94	First of all, I would ask, as I have already indicated in the first debate on this amendment, if, however, we could get an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service on the new sixth paragraph proposed by the Group of Social Democrats. Is this at least about what the Local Self-Government Act should define as a criterion, as a way to identify criteria for determining the sustainability and population of Roma? The second thing I would say is that I will read article 65 of the Constitution once again, where it says, the title of the article is: " [[the situation and specific rights of the Roma community in Slovenia]] "--lock it up. And then it says, "The position and special rights of the Roma community living in Slovenia" - which lives in Slovenia, which does not live autonomously in Slovenia - "makes law". We have recently adopted this law, but it is logical that where there is a greater number of Roma living, this Roma community should take special care to ensure that this community develops under special conditions to carry out positive discrimination against Roma living permanently in a congregation. Permanent population is something other than autonomy. Although I know that the linguistic interpretation of the word "autochton" or "autochton" is the same as it is, but it is the original; this is at least understood in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia when we are talking about indigenous or indigenous national communities of Hungary and Italy. Both communities have been inhabited here for over 500 years and more. Even more Italians, while Hungarians have been around since the year 1000, as far as I can see, while Slovenians have been living here since about 600, as we know. So we're also indigenous according to the criteria that we invented, actually. This is also evident to us by the Council of Europe and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that we have invented the concept of 'autohton' in order to prevent minorities from being recognised, which is also called the Serbian, Bosnian, Croatian, Macedonian and other, Montenegrin minorities, or what I know, the Albanian minority living here in Slovenia and being a fact. However, we do not have certain minorities in our constitution. However, we have three national communities that we can also call minorities and include Roma. I didn't say nomads. They have been a nomadic people, but they have settled permanently with us in the last few decades or centuries. And if you would summarize the last article of Mr Mić Mrkaić, who is an extremely loving writer to me, in Finance, Rome has included three other nations, which we Slovenians have very intensively and effectively expelled from Slovenia. We could also ask ourselves why some nations aren't so populated here, and I don't want to say that there was something wrong with it - that's how it was. And that's why we can't talk about Rommie moving in every three days. My neighbor in the house is Rom, who lives there longer than I do. Is it permanently populated? Autochton's not here because he came here from Prekmur, but he's permanently populated. However, there are not enough Roma in Izola to elect their representative from their community to the municipal council. However, I do not think that there would be any defence in Isola for having a representative of the Roma in the municipal world if there were enough Roma living in Isola. Not as we've heard many times. And this article only changes because of the congregation of Grosuplje. That is why our amendment is designed to apply certain criteria only when there is a division of the congregation which has so far been in, I don't know, 101.b. - I don't know which article, or 101.a. - determined to have a Romani councilman, let's say before the elections split into two parts. The other part, if there are permanently populated Roma living in its area, must also elect a Roma saint. For the new municipalities alone, this amendment is foreseen. It is said that the Government has no unlimited possibility of modifying the provisions of this law and this through a regulation. There's something else I have to say. If this amendment and the amendment from the Group of Non-Aligned Members are rejected, if both of them are rejected, I would remind you that in Article 101, 20 municipalities are registered, including Grosuplje, and without amendment to this Act, and without amendment to Article 101, it is not possible to eliminate the obligation of the Municipality of Grosuplje to elect a representative of the Roma Community to the municipal council. That's not possible! And in this law you did not delete Article 101. Of course not, you did not delete it and you will have to delete it if the government sets such criteria that there will be no need for a Roma saint in Grosuply. Something else was said. The Roma community and, as a result, the Italian and Hungarian communities were compared with societies. I don't know. Some of them were listed. There's no comparison here! The three nationalities are defined in the constitution as special categories and therefore we cannot speak and compare this with some firefighters' societies and what I know what else. All honour to firefighters, however, is not the national community, which is enshrined in the constitution as a category to be specifically discussed and decided on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u95	Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, you have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. I wanted to do this earlier, but you allowed me to discuss this with my fellow Member, Mr Pecan. However, I know that you are listening very carefully to the session you are conducting, but I would like to ask that you are paying attention to this issue that we are currently dealing with, paying attention and paying attention to any hate speech or perhaps intolerance in the National Assembly, so that this would not happen by chance, especially when we are talking about maybe criminalizing a community or just talking about certain characteristics at random. Please, if you'll be careful, because I don't think this is happening in this room.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u97	Thank you so much for the heads-up. I've been very careful about this, and believe me, if it went over the edge, I'd break it off. According to the number of applications, I'm opening a new round of applications. Mr. Geza Juban has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Chairman. When I talk about these two amendments, which are very similar, perhaps even the other amendment, which is a little simpler, could help to make less critical interventions to the Roma communities. Even though I don't see anything wrong with the first one. Indeed, we are talking about representative associations, which we have established in the law we have adopted. And there are currently procedures for the election of representatives in these associations and we can know very quickly and clearly who it is to participate in the definition of permanent population, etc. Second. There is one representative of the Roma in the municipalities. These are the municipalities referred to in Article 101. A number or some critical mass has been determined, making it possible for congregations to have one Romani saint. And to then form a working body within the congregation, they would not call this working body one, two or three Roma in the congregation, but for that number. Everyone sees this from the point of view of their environment: we have congregations with one saint, including entire Roma settlements, whose interests, working bodies in the congregations could be represented and met in one year, twice or no time. Depends on the problems they are. These problems in Roma communities are very narrow. Roma do not deal with the whole problem that confronts us here or elsewhere, but these are areas of basic living conditions, sports or the like. This working group would not have much work to do, but it might help the municipal council or the mayor. I see no harm in these amendments, nor do we even know that we have a Roma community or settlement with Roma in Prekmurje, which are slightly different from others in Slovenia. As a result, I also see this problem slightly differently than some colleagues here today do. I regret that discussion - I have said this several times - a little foreign and I completely disagree with these views, but it may appeal to many from a public point of view. And Mr President, the question is, where is that edge when you should say, "From here on out?" I think it went a little over the edge. So one of these amendments would have been supportive, and nothing big would have happened if we had supported which would probably be of little use to them then further in the implementation of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u99	Mr. Franz Jazbec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The proposed additions we are currently discussing are therefore unnecessary to Article 15. This also comes from the debate which the debaters had before me, in particular Tanka, mentioned Article 65 of the Constitution, in which it was read that the status of the Roma community should be defined in law. Yeah, that's the point! The establishment of a specific working body to monitor the situation of the Roma community is defined in Article 7 of the Law on the Roma Community. Therefore, there is no need to define this in any particular way in the law and thus to do just one populism story in the consideration of today’s law. The draft law and not the amendments do not contain any written or mentioned place of Grosuplje, but it has now been mentioned at least several times in its consideration. I think that this is absolutely unnecessary, as it is without the need to write the first and second amendments, so I will not support one or the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u101	Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me congratulate you on your stand. You know what you are listening to, and you know that we are all talking about the two amendments to Article 15, although some want to make it political again, I don't know, intolerance and so on, in this case our opposition colleagues. Now I'll be very clear that there will be no doubt. First, the amendment to article 15 states: "In a municipality where Roma have at least one representative in the municipal council, a special working body shall be established in the municipal council to monitor the situation of the Roma community." And now, because obviously some people don't understand, I'm going to make a plastic picture. Let's just say I'm a Romani, and I've run for office on the Slovenian National Party list, and I've come to the municipal council. And what - now because of Barovic, who is Roma, but has run for office in the Slovenian National Party, will establish a special working body. That's great! But my name is Barovich, I come from the 16th century from Montenegro - I demand the same role. If I come, I want a sentence saying that for the Montenegrin community - a special working body. I mean, excuse me, come on! Let's get this straight. That's a fact. A party to a democratic action is simply a party that lives in Zasavje. My colleagues who lived there know that 200 years ago, workers from Bosnia and Herzegovina came to the mine. And she had to go alone and go and pay for the election herself, but she didn't come to the congregation council. With what right? With what right to someone else who is called Roma, what we offer, be my guest, but you already have what, you don't even have to pay the costs, you don't have to do anything, you're just sitting there in the municipal world. With what right?Oh, my God! And here I am the same as the Party of Democratic Action, and here I am the same as the Serb community. With what right? And I'm going to the other amendment so you won't tell me, "The government agrees with the representative... Roma in Slovenia set criteria and criteria on the basis of which permanent population is determined." - or autochthony. I spoke to Professor Gulic, a respected colleague, about what autonomy is. Do you know what autonomy is? In Slovenia there are indigenous people - in his opinion, according to his colleagues and some historians - the only Celts. Only Celts! The Romans were--and they went; the Illyrians came--and they went; the Celts lived. And the Celts are indigenous! I'm not an autochthon, and I want to be a Slovene and a Ripper, because in the 16th century, the ancestors came from Montenegro. We can't just give autonomy to someone, nobody's more indigenous than they are. Our family has lived 400 years in the Rippers - sustainability. Once again, please let me understand: this is not a political game, this is not an intolerance, this is equality. We are talking, colleagues and colleagues, about the equality of all people in this country! Any Roma who, by their conduct, life and work, will earn and will, of course, pay themselves or through a political party and will either be included in the municipal council or even in the National Assembly as a member of the Non-Aligned Members, the Social Democrats - with all due respect, welcome and work! But he can't come because he's a Rom and he's gonna sit here and he's gonna be like, "Now I'm here!" And we're working for the good! And you'd just give everybody something. Hello! What about all the other Slovenians who are "assuming" who are trying to do what they want? Many of them want to come here and say something, but they can't, they can't sit up there, maybe they can't! And you would just give sustainability, autonomy. Work body to monitor the situation, please! So let's form a working community to monitor the situation, I don't know, the Montenegrin communities, the Serbian, Bosnian, friendly, comrades, trumps, oak! I think so! Don't "heat" people of God, let's understand that there's no intolerance here, we're all equal, everyone has to earn this position. I had to do it, you all had to do it, and we can't just give it to someone with autonomy, not sustainability, not some special working bodies to monitor the situation. I want to know! I will find one Roma and bring him to the Municipal Council of Trbovlje Municipality and then I wonder if we will design a special body to monitor the life of Roma - because he came through the Slovenian National Party and because Roma is in the municipal world. Let us understand, no one has anything against anyone, we all have the same rights, duties, we all have the same opportunities, and - with all due respect to the Roma, with all due respect, for the first time, I have said this, those who are good, who are working, who can live, who can behave, will achieve their goal with or without you, without your like amendments, in this case unrelated Members and SD. And the amendments are really just and just like!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I apologize for not responding immediately to Mrs Breda Pecan's request for an amendment, which she referred to and for which I am asking, and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Commission is already under way. I hope that in the course of this debate we will try to get this. We continue the debate. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Allow me just one sentence of the answer not my previous procedural question. True, the session is conducted by you and I respect it, and also the criteria for what hate speech is, what is over the edge, you put. Of course, it's a completely subjective criterion and a criterion, but I just wanted to point that out, because I think we've gone over the edge of certain things today. Allow me to discuss at the last two discussions on the fact that this has already been mentioned or that the Law on Roma Communities already states that it is necessary to establish such a body in the congregation, but of course no one has said - neither Mr Jazbec nor Mr Barovic said two things. Mr Jazbec as Chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government, I hope that you will recall that the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service has three times hailed and three times warned that this law also has a fourth paragraph. But this one says - and no one reads this - this one says, "the working body referred to in paragraph 1" - that is, this body that is supposed to be established - "is established in accordance with the law governing local self-government". Mrs Ogrincheva, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, cheered three times, warned the Government and the Committee, proposed and begged that he was obliged and that this law - namely, the Law on Local Self-Government as a System Act as that fundamental law - should explicitly state and regulate matter. Neither did the government's representatives, Minister Zhagar, nor did most of them want to hear it and it's not in the law. Of course, everyone quotes it and reads it to where it fits, but this fourth paragraph does not. That's why I wanted to warn you less. We wanted it to be explicitly written. I don't know what the issue is, just in this detail, that some people think that it is enough that there is in the Law on the Roma Community, but that I think that the Law-Legal Service of this Parliament is a certain authority and that it would be right to take it into account - not only when it "feeds" - and to take that into account what is said in paragraph 4. For the entire debate today, I would like to say that the fact that we have prepared these two amendments, as we have been able to hear here today, that this is an extremely inappropriate act, but that this is some standard that we have or do not have with us, and that in such a way of speaking about some community, we certainly cannot talk about the Roma community here, that we should talk about co-existence, about co-existence, about how all countries and all the denials of the rights of minorities are equal, whether in the Austrian Koroška, in Tyrol or in Slovenia, also to some community that has a certain status regulated, thank God also in the constitution. And of course, the country is as democratic and free as it is able to make democratic and free decisions and to give a certain place certain rights to those who are in a minority who are weaker, who are different, refugees, immigrants and so on; and we must be aware of that. Above all, we Slovenians, who have always been very close to this, yet we have found many allies, whom we were happy to have in our history. I think that we must show such openness and tolerance, democracy in our actions even now that we have a country of our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Jazbec, you wanted a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u106	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u107	Yes or no. I wasn't completely please? [[...]] Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u108	Dear colleague Orzam! See, it is true that the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has three times stressed and tried to influence the committee also in the content, in the same part or in what is not the work of the Legislative and Legal Service. The work of the Legal and Legislative Service is to draw attention to possible inconsistencies. However, you have forgotten to say that the representative of the Government, the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, is also a representative and the entire committee three times the answer why this is not necessary. And that's why it's unnecessary to keep these things warm today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. I would just like to clarify once again what we have already explained several times on the committee on this matter. As has been said, we do not think that it is necessary to define this working body specifically because this working body is already defined in Article 7 of the Law on the Roma Community. However, the Law on Local Self-Government sets out in Articles 30 and 31 how to appoint working bodies. And we believe that in this way all the legal conditions for setting up such a working body are available, and we see no reason why this should be rewritten. Of course, it has no connection whatsoever, and I strongly reject this in order to oppose the appointment of this working body in this sense. But this is regulated in the Law on the Roma Community, in Article 7, and then the way in Article 31 or 30 of the Law on Local Self-Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Bostian Zagorac, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I don't know how I'm supposed to do this, but I don't want anyone to call my speech hostile or cross the border. It seems to me that the first implementation did not go beyond any limit that there was nothing hostile in this speech, but only my opinion or the opinion of the Slovenian National Party was expressed. It really wasn't my intention to be hated by anyone. I agree with the distinguished colleague, Ambassador Pecanovo, that we have three minorities or indigenous minorities in the constitution. I agree with that, but it says that Roma rights must be guaranteed by special law. I think we have once proposed such a law in the Slovenian National Party, but you did not want to settle such a matter with the law. And all we wanted was for these rights to be equal. And here I agree. It is true that the Montenegrins, the Albanians, the Serbs, the Bosnians, I do not know who else lives in a congregation, but is considered a community, is not in the constitution. Firefighters aren't in the constitution either, and sometimes they'd be right to be. But despite the fact that we now have the Law on the Roma Community that we are in line with the Constitution here, it seems to me that the Roma still have a bit of privilege, perhaps even because of your thanks to them. And if you allow me, Mr President-in-Office, there is only one such case where they already have the privilege, it would be worth mentioning. It happened yesterday and those who live and still breathe in another congregation, except in Ljubljana - I must say that I, at least personally, am very concerned. This happened yesterday in Maribor. Two Roma families, and I will refer to this cohabitation, which was mentioned, have agreed, in their principle, to marry between two minors, which is not possible again in accordance with Slovenian legislation, but are - overlooked through their fingers. And it turns out that this other woman isn't exactly what she appears to be, and there's been a little bit of a problem. Do you know how many police cars were in front of the house? 15! Another case that happened the same day, just in the morning, at my daughter's primary school, was that there was a message from the Maribor police department that someone in a black car with a SG plate was driving around schools in one part of Maribor and a young girl was invited into the car to drive them home. Do you know how many police cars there were? None! Who has the privilege now? Because one girl at 17 or 16 does not meet the conditions that the Roma community requires, 15 police cars have gathered. When it comes to children, whether or not Slovenian, there may also be some Roma girl along with - then no, just a message! I was horrified! Who has the privilege now? What kids? Who are we protecting? Let's think about it! Don't let anyone say it's a hate speech. Like my colleague Barovic said, what if he comes to a municipal council on the list of any party or associations of a Romani saint - we will establish a body that will monitor how much is sold at a shop? More than stupidity!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I think that both the listeners and the Members of this assembly will assess what we can say, how we can speak. I would only warn you that the title of the point is local self-government. But let us leave things to the investigating authorities and other bodies that are not verified. And let us not start them in the hall of this assembly. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! While I would really like to discuss in support of the amendments tabled, the debate has been on such a path that something needs to be pointed out. I have addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia the initiative of 14 February to ratify also Slovenia the 12th Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, which commands everyone, in particular all authorities and their representatives, to respect the same treatment in a consistent manner, so it is highly anti-discrimination. And if we look at things from this point of view, then sensitivity to the perception of the hate speech related to discrimination is a very important component of our work, especially if I recall the third report of the European Commission against Racism and Xenophobia, which we have also received in the National Assembly and which also calls for the National Assembly to reduce or prevent hate speech. But hate speech can quickly become a pattern for something that already exists in this country. Indeed, we cannot go beyond the fact that the coexistence of people who are different from the majority population in Slovenia is also a problem according to statistics. Because according to statistics, we do not express ourselves positively when asked if people who are not like us would like to settle in our neighborhood. The Law on Local Self-Government is just such a law that, with all the necessary sensitivity, should respond precisely to the coexistence of people in an environment in which certain matters need to be regulated by law in particular. Since we are talking about the ECRI report, let me point out that Slovenia has been repeatedly asked how it explains the expression of autonomy in connection with Roma. Slovenia insists that it designates or divides Roma into indigenous and non-autochtons. A colleague of Pečanova said that in article 65 of the Constitution, which speaks of the Roma, there is no talk of autonomy, and we do not have the expression - since formerly colleagues from the National Party spoke of populism, someone would have imagined that we had introduced the word; but, if we were already changing it, and if we were already taking into account the things that we were warned were not well resolved, we suggested that the term "autochton" should be replaced by "permanently settled". Permanence is, of course, a question and those who are so very concerned with Roma, let me point out that the Roma and their settlement in Slovenia are a centuries-old tradition, and if anyone reads school reading, then at least in Jurčič and in the Fortress they could find something about the Roma, then they were also called Gypsies. It's about permanent residence. But the Members of the National Party also understood Article 65 of the Constitution in such a way that a bill on the Roma Community in Slovenia must be drafted. And I am very sorry that not all those coalition Members and Members who have so much praised how good, unique, outstanding the law on the Roma community we have recently adopted. However, what needs to be said and what those who have prepared the professional bases for this law have said, but it should be noted again that they have said that the Law on Roma Communities in Slovenia, which has seventeen articles alone, stressful or roofing law and will nevertheless have to be regulated in all laws related to Roma. And, in particular, in the Local Self-Government Act, certain Roma-related issues need to be addressed; some are, but some need to be amended. And I don't see any problem why we can't pass on what's in the roof law to the Law on Local Self-Government, because, by this logic, respected Mr. Minister, we can't think, then even the roof law governs only those things that are already regulated in many, eleven or twelve laws and only jointly regulate them. But the Law on the Roma Community brings some novelties that are not yet in the field laws or other laws, and it has been promised that when we change the laws, we will pass these provisions from the roof law to the laws accordingly. And that's exactly what our amendment does. But the story behind it is very clear: in the proposed government article we are amending, the Government has taken the right to set the criteria for how it will determine them and, with any other decision, to reach out to the law - but the problem that we are alerting us to is the problem. The government can't make any changes through a regulation. That the story of Grosuply is as clear as day, because the Grosuply Congregation is the only one who does not have an elected Romani saint, and should have it by law, and even though they know they do not have it, they are still waiting! Yeah, they're waiting! Probably a government regulation that'll say something different. Now how the government will determine the criteria, I don't know. However, I am afraid that it will follow those experts who see no problem if ethnically shaped settlements are foreseen as one of the possible solutions to the integration of Roma people into Slovenian society, so that ghettoisation has never been an integration. Now there are problems that are of a broader nature. And if the government were really well-intentioned with its proposal, then because of known problems, it would make sure that the solutions were put in such a way as to remove doubts, not raise doubts. And I am joining my colleague, Brada Pecan, in order to make the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service on our proposed amendment absolutely necessary. Mr. Jazbec, on your replica and on your objections. The legislative and legal service, according to my experience, often makes substantive comments that the coalition overlooks, as a rule, but what is editorial corrections, but with a number of amendments, are included in the proposals. Tomorrow we will deal with exactly such a law, the Law on the Implementation of the Principle of Equal Treatment, where the coalition has tabled amendments to the law, which were of course all adopted, but were only editorial in nature; those amendments, which from the standpoint of the Law-Legal Service, have warned of specific substantive concerns, and those articles have not been tabled, nor are the articles now open, nor can the law be amended as a complement. By now saying that this article, due to the working body which is written in Article 7 of the Law on the Roma Community in Slovenia, says that our amendment is not necessary, I find it unconvincing to argue by the representatives of the Government. It would be good to try some things in principle, as we have done many times before: if it harms, let it at least benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs Pecanova, you have a word or a word now, but allow me to do what you asked first. In the light of the fifth indent of Article 66 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and of your question as to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, I would ask Mrs Helena Ogrinc to give an opinion on the matter for which you have requested. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In the light of the question raised, given the opinion requested for the proposed solutions to the proposed completion of the sixth paragraph of Article 39 of the Law, I believe that, in the course of the discussion on the working body, as well as in our complementary opinion, we have assessed that the proposed solution in the basic text of the proposed amendment - that is, by which the Government should be empowered to determine the criteria and criteria on the basis of which the autonomy of the Roma community will be determined, which will be the basis for the appointment of their representative in the municipal world - we have assessed that this authority to the Government is too wide. And assessed that the law itself should set at least the basic guidelines for a legal framework to determine these criteria. In view of the proposed amendment, which speaks of the following, the Government, in agreement with the representative Roma associations in the Republic of Slovenia, should lay down these criteria and, on the basis of these, define the permanent population of the Roma community, speaks of permanent population as opposed to the basic text. Furthermore, further guidance would be to be defined by the law of certain municipalities, which should have a representative of the Roma community in the municipal council. So it is defined to the content of Article 101a of the current law. We can assess that these solutions clearly set out guidelines for the formulation of these criteria and criteria that the government wants to prescribe and thus fill, we could say that there is a gap in the current law that causes difficulties in appointing representatives or in electing Roma representatives to the municipal council. So, this is our vision. Here's the directional data. Whether guidance is sufficient to make it as appropriate as possible to place these criteria and criteria as correctly as possible in the interest of all, i.e. the municipalities and also the Roma communities, and I think it goes beyond our competence. I believe that there is no doubt that the amendment is going in the direction of our warnings and that sooner or later a constitutional dispute would be resolved in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u117	Thank you very much for explaining. Mr. Jazbec, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I was mentioned in Mrs Potrat's debate, and I would like to point out once again that in my previous reply, I have made it clear that it is the competence of the Legal and Legislative Service to examine the bill in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspect, but not in terms of content, and I continue to argue this, despite the fact that the College of Commerce has a very different opinion. I also said in the previous reply that not only Mrs Ogrincheva has made three comments on the committee and made a comment on the content that the Minister has also three times answered the legislative and legal service's comment on why this amendment is not appropriate to be introduced into this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u119	Mrs. Breda Pecan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u120	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to point out that what Mrs Zalokar Orazem already said - but in a slightly different way. Article 39 of the Law on Local Self-Government deals with ethnically mixed areas where the Italian or Hungarian national communities live, five paragraphs or four paragraphs shall be addressed to the Roma community. The first is that the Roma community, which is a special category, which also has a special article in the constitution, is squeezed together with the Italian and Hungarian national communities in the same article. However, if we have already done so, then it would be correct to explain the fourth paragraph - I don't know any more - which article, just a moment, I will look at, the Law on the Romani Community. I'm sorry, I have paragraph 7 here, paragraph 4 says, "The working body referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be established in accordance with the law governing local self-government." It is very logical that this is a special working body, that it is not a working body that belongs to a set of all the working bodies of the Municipal Council. Like the working body called the Commission on questions of the national community, so we have in Article 39, it says: "In national mixed areas, the Commission for Nationality Issues is established." - and, then it is also specified how it is composed parity. Half of the members of this Commission shall be representatives of the Italian or Hungarian Nationality Communities and half of the remaining members of the Commission. It is said that, because of the particular working body, it is also necessary to write in particular in the Law on Local Self-Government what it should be. It's a lot looser here. Because it's actually a problem. However, in view of the situation on the ground, we must also find out whether it is possible in a Roma community where there is a Roma community to form a committee with a parity composition. With Italians and Hungarians, this is no problem. The question is with the Roma, because it is sometimes difficult to even get a candidate as a representative of the Roma community. We know that there is a municipality in Slovenia. I don't know if the only thing that's possible is that it's another one that's already got a working body like this and it's showing extremely good effects. It is said that it would be advisable to take good practices into account in this field and to require all municipalities with a representative of the Roma Community in the Municipal Council to establish such a special working body. Secondly, I would only comment on the fact that, in its opinion on Article 15, the Law-Legal Service did not go into substance, but only entered into the legality or constitutionality of this. I would like to point out that this has been better said by Mrs Zalokarev - I do not remember at this moment precisely that it is an unconstitutional interference with the rights of the people or the community in such a way that, by means of a sub-law, the Government regulation, which is a distinct political body, decides on the rights of the national community.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u121	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening applications. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. Here you go, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I'm not going to talk about the content anymore. Because I think that every reasonable person on the basis of this very long-standing debate could have created his own opinion. At least I hope that other colleagues and colleagues will confirm this with their heads and also with the adoption of the amendments. However, I would like to, given that undue pressure is also being exerted many times in this society, to say the least, and to argue with my colleague Jazbec. For I believe that the Law-Legal Service, which is an extremely valuable service in this Parliament and which must never be solely in the function of a ruling coalition, has, in the case of warnings, acted properly and has not embarked on the substantive side of the law, but has strictly and exclusively drawn attention to the connection with another law and to any dispute in other provisions as well as constitutional dispute. So I ask that we refrain from being cautious and guarding this service as a service that gives Members and Members specific legal opinions, not opinions that should be adapted to certain positions. In this sense, I believe that the service did not act properly, that it did not interfere with the content. For what was wanted in this debate by its colleague Jazbec to stress was that the Law-Legal Service here has exceeded. And if I only apply to the previous law this story that you've dealt with, the Electoral Act. Even then, the Legal and Legislative Service warned me about this. Of course, the solutions were different and the matter ended at the Constitutional Court. No one was responsible for an unconstitutional solution. Today, however, we have spent so much and so much time and money in this National Assembly that we have actually had to make up for such a stubborn decision. I think we should be careful of Members and be careful that we do not exert any pressure on the legislative and legal service. Not to carry them out through the debate, but to preserve its autonomy, expertise and sovereignty. And, of course, I think my colleague went over the edge here. For the obvious that someone is interfering with the content I think this is the pressure on this service, which must be independent in this House.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u123	Replica, Mr. Jazbec. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I will repeat once again that I have already said twice, both on the working body and here, what is the competence of the Legal and Legal Service and that the content is not jurisdiction. However, since the Legislative and Legal Service in this case has three times pointed out the content of the law on the Committee, Minister Žagar has replied three times in substance why what you are proposing in the amendments today does not need to be incorporated into the law. I think I speak in Parliament and in Slovenia and that it makes no sense to fabricate these statements. All of this is enshrined in Article 7 of the Law on the Roma Community and in the Law on Local Self-Government in Articles 30 and 31. I don't know why you're making a scene out of what's not necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I will first admit that I have a lack of knowledge from the point of view of the connection between the Law on the Roma Community and local self-government. And that in his performance, Mr Minister has partly convinced me of the meaning of some of the solutions that are in these two amendments. The first amendment in the second paragraph and then the amendment under number 2. And that this thing is "discussable" whether there's something in it or not. We can see it doesn't hurt, so maybe it would be good if it was. However, it is still open on the basis of the candidates of the first amendment and the Legal and Legislative Service, which suggests that it would not be wrong if the two solutions proposed here were introduced into the law. The question of the criteria for permanent population and question 101a of Article 101a, where the applicants have pointed to a new situation that arose after the new establishment of the municipalities, what happens that the municipalities which arose are not referred to in this Article 101a. And that, in my opinion, this helped to supplement your proposal for a law so that there would not be a situation that is not good or that is not harmonised. And, Minister, you may even convince me that I will not vote, as usual, that the opposition is voting in a different way. I've been changing my relationship with these amendments all along. You may have almost convinced me that you wouldn't support one of them. I am still waiting for your reply, especially to the second part of the first paragraph of this first amendment, which is due to the area of the municipalities referred to in Article 101a or the new situation created after the establishment of the municipalities and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u128	Thank you. I have not changed my position on these two proposed amendments so far, nor did I intend to speak. But still -- if you'll excuse me -- given that I'm going to talk about this working body, I'd like to say this. From the point of view of whether or not this is necessary. Otherwise, it has been said a few times, or the opinion or position of the Government or of the minister, who I think - or I believe - was a reason on the ground and also abstaining. Congregations or congregational councils have, for at times we have said so, but I think they hold permanent and occasional working bodies. Now this particular working body appears, but this 30th article nicely states: 'the municipal council can also set up other commissions and committees for its working bodies'. And now I'm asking you. I think there was something similar about the smoking law yesterday. You know, there are other laws that we have adopted in this House. And now I'm going to start with this Law of Warlordship. And again the Law of Public Order and Peace. Those laws also define certain tasks or specific legislation and impose some kind of local community on them, so that they can also set up or, in fact, it is possible for the municipal councils to set up working bodies. And I'm not going to explain which one. For example, it is the Council for Prevention and Raising in Road Traffic. There's no such thing here in the law. I do not know why some of you now insist that there is a permanent working body, which is clearly specified in Article 7 of the Law on the Roma Community. It's clearly defined. It's all written. Otherwise, I see that the first sentence does not go well together because it says that "in the municipal world a special working body is established to monitor the situation of the Roma community", not in the municipal council – the municipal council will set up a municipal council, because if it were established in the municipal council, then it would probably be only the saints in this working body, so that I support the proposal of the government or the ministry, that everything in this matter is clear and that we do not need to re-write it in the Law on Local Self-Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u129	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Of course, I would like to say that we are talking about the Law on Local Self-Government. In this section of this law we want to go through this provision in a uniform way - and I would like to stress this once again - to regulate the whole of Slovenia uniformly, uniform criteria, uniform criteria for determining those municipalities which should have Roma saints. I do not know these criteria at this point and these criteria are not known because they were not made on the basis of these criteria. Because if this had been done today and could have been done, then some insinuations on a particular congregation would not have been made because it would have been regulated by criteria and that is exactly what you would know. And that is exactly what we want to achieve with this. Of course, I strongly reject that any change in this legislation is such or different on the basis of any individual solution. I absolutely cannot agree with that. Now, as regards the regulation of criteria and criteria, it must also be made very clear that this is also the subject of a Constitutional Court decision. The decision of the Constitutional Court refers to the need to regulate these criteria and criteria. Of course, the Nationality Office is responsible for this. There these things are regulated and the professional public in this area is involved, which - I am sure - will be able to justify these things most professionally and, finally, the Roma community is also involved. I have here a letter from the President of the Union of Roma Slovenia. It also follows from this letter that they too want this to go in this direction. And I don't see any special reservations or problems here. This is it, and of course I'm sure, and I can't imagine any other way of solving the problem, and I'm sure that we've presented them with our work all the time to go into some partial solutions that are just for someone in particular. That's the part. Now, if, of course, you are asking me a question that relates to constitutional provisions in individual cases, I must be clear that there can be no dilemma here at all. The decisions of the Constitutional Court must, of course, be respected. Even in the case of this issue, of course, individual congregations in this area must respect and, of course, we keep reminding these congregations. Of course, it is true that no one else can handle this matter in their place. It must be in accordance with this, in accordance with the law and, of course, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. That thing is undeniable. Congregations also need to arrange for themselves. So I don't see these kind of dilemmas here. I think the debate is also going to some extent in my not exactly the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I'm opening the application again. Mr. Geza Juban has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u132	Very briefly. I am not always so sure that I will need to adopt any of these two, especially the first amendment. It would be most wise for the coalition to agree on one of these two amendments, perhaps the first to be adopted, and possibly on the basis of a discussion also to add to the text of this amendment, because we are in second reading. I think that there is a need for an amendment that would complement some of the things we are talking about here today with the text of the law, which I think is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u133	The word has magic. Majda Potter. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u134	Even if the Minister had said the same thing five more times or another, the fact that the regulation could not regulate this in law had been stated by the Legislative and Legal Service. That's what the comment is. Therefore, the amendment is the first or second better than the proposed solution and it would be good to change your mind, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u135	And Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. I just want to respond to what the minister said in a way. The fact is that 20 municipalities are listed in the law, which are supposed to have a Roma councilman in the municipality and that only one municipality in Slovenia has not done so. Mr. Secretary, you said you kept warning that. I'm sure you're warning me, but I asked you something else before. Law also provides you with other sharper ways to exert pressure or exert pressure on this congregation. Of course, the warnings in that form obviously do not depend on this congregation. So I ask you: When will you, or how long will you only be alert, when will you begin to carry out or make other steps that the law also gives you and enables you to do?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u137	Thank you. I suppose no one wants to discuss it anymore, so I am closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 5th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. Period of the day - another defends the proposal for a law on State border control. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the committee president, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u138	Thank you, President, for your understanding. For all the papers, sometimes there's something a little deeper to look for. The proposal for a State Border Control Act was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice at its 34th meeting. The representative of the proposed Minister, Dragutin Mate, provided an additional explanation for the bill and explained that a completely new law had to be drawn up which included the adopted regulations of the European Union contained in the substantive report of the Schengen Borders Act and also provided for compliance with the provisions of the Law on Offences. Further, he explained the news in more detail. Above all, he stressed that the proposal for a law specified the urgent need for border control, thus ensuring the security of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union as a whole. A special chapter of the bill is intended to reintroduce internal border control when certain security situations arise, such as potential terrorist attacks or threats. Be in the Republic of Slovenia, that is, in our country, or in another Member State of the European Union. The draft law thus provides for the possibility of monitoring those persons who would like to carry out any of those activities. In addition, the law specifies how the external border is crossed and the border control is carried out. There are also certain categories of persons such as seafarers who are diplomats. The law prescribes when it is possible to refuse entry into the Republic of Slovenia and thus indirectly into the European Union area, the marking of the national border, the obligation to subordinate border control by establishing the authority implementing it. This is a fine replacement for the police and also sets out areas of border crossing and temporary border crossings at the future external border. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service initially said that the proposed law under the structure remained relatively similar to the previous law of the same name and that the comments submitted by that service were already duly taken into account in the proposed amendments which had been transmitted before the beginning of the meeting of the Internal Policy Committee. The debate between the members of the Committee raised the question: What will happen to SOBS and at least one tourist zone on the border of the Republic with Croatia? Minister Mate replied that the draft law does not affect the SOBS in any way, as it remains in force with regard to the regime at the border itself, the small border crossings and also the transit points listed therein, and with regard to those tourist zones already operating in those areas. Therefore, from this point of view, as regards the adoption of a new law, there is no fear that the proposal for a law would interfere in any way with an international agreement concluded with the Republic of Croatia. Amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups that were adopted were tabled in the bill. At the end of the day, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice adopted all the remaining articles of the law and proposes them to this esteemed assembly for admission.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Kokalj has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u140	Nicely greeted! The last amendment to the State Border Control Act was adopted at the June meeting last year. Due to the excessive number of changes due to Slovenia's entry into the Schengen area to which we are preparing, the Ministry has decided to prepare a new State Border Control Act. The proposal for a law relates mainly to the area of the new external border, as the internal borders with the Member States will thus be abolished. The proposal for a law provides for the establishment of internal borders only where there is a risk of a serious threat to public order or internal security. These are, for example, terrorist attacks or threats in a neighbouring Member State. The scope and duration of the reintroduction of control shall not exceed that which is strictly necessary in view of the seriousness of the threat. The State must inform the other Member States and the European Commission of the introduction. The draft law lays down where the national border passes, the powers of the authority controlling the national border, the border line. Regulation of the regime at border crossings and border crossings shall be laid down. The changes we are discussing today relate exclusively to border crossings at the future external border. This is the border with the Republic of Croatia, as the transition at all other borders will be free and there will be no further restrictions, except those already mentioned in the event of serious threats. The proposal for a law is in line with Regulation No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 256/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Schengen Borders Code. The shortcomings identified in the application of the current law in practice are also addressed. It is aligned with the Law on Offences and, due to the introduction of the euro, transforms fines from tolars into a new currency. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u142	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State! Messengers and Members! The adoption of a new Law on State Border Control is necessary in particular in order to implement a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on Community law on rules governing the movement of persons across borders. This Regulation has put into effect the Convention on the Implementation of the Schengen Agreement and the Common Shchengen Manual. The State Border Control Act, which we adopted in 2003, included the substantive transposition of the Convention and the Manual. In order to adopt a regulation directly applicable, it was necessary to prepare a new law in order not to duplicate the content of the law in addition to the regulation in domestic legislation or in the adopted law on State border control. In addition to these amendments, the proposed law harmonises provisions with the Law on Offences, notably with regard to terminology. We do not have any comments on the proposed law, because we believe that it adequately ensures the integrity of the control of the state border, the authorities and their powers to control the state border, the marking of the border line and border crossings, and everything else necessary to protect the state border properly. The proposed law will therefore be supported by the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u143	Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament, Secretary of State! The adoption of the Schengen Borders regime, the harmonisation of national legislation with European legislation, the resolution of the shortcomings of the law and the harmonisation with other relevant rules have required not only changes and additions to the law, but a comprehensive intervention to regulate the state border with the new law. And, although it is a matter of adopting a new law in its entirety, it remains unchanged by structure and in some substantive solutions. In particular, it is our responsibility, as the European Union's border country, to effectively protect the external border. It is therefore necessary that the police, as the competent control authority, have appropriate measures available on the basis of their powers and in accordance with the principle of proportionality. By means of a non-new general clause, the possibility of applying other emergency measures is envisaged. Legally undeclared, carried out where necessary due to some real direct threat to public security and order, in particular the lives and health of people. At the crossing of the internal state border, that is to say borders with a Member State, we will be reminded only of noticeable and possible warning boards because there are no border controls within Schengen. This also means free transition for third-country nationals. We therefore believe that the measure provided by the Schengen and our law to reintroduce internal border control is of paramount importance. The possibility of preventing percentage terrorist attacks or the occurrence of other dangerous situations, and the control of persons intending to carry out any activity of endangering the safety of each country and its nationals, is thus ensured by the temporary introduction of internal border controls between Member States and others by law of certain procedures and measures. This law, however, confers powers on the Ministry of Foreign and Internal Affairs to act. This measure was already used by Germany during the World Cup. Austria, however, intends to introduce border controls with all neighbouring countries, thereby suspending the implementation of the Schengen Agreement next year during the European Championship, which, for security reasons, is fully justified and necessary for such events, where a wide variety of different nations are involved, which significantly enhances the potential for terrorist other criminal activities. We are convinced that we all agree that it is necessary to ensure such security for Slovenia, as well as for the common European space, through appropriate legislation for external and, if necessary, internal borders. That is why we will support the proposal in the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. We will support the proposed Law on State Border Control in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. This is a law which means compliance with the Regulation of the European Union with the substantive area of the Schengen Borders Code. At the same time, the law also aligns itself with the provisions of the Law on Offences, which replaces fines. The Law on State Border Control, in our opinion, contains appropriate provisions which, if implemented, ensure the safety of Slovenia and the European Union as a whole. The control of the internal borders of the European Union will be amended and released once the Council of Europe has reached its conclusion. However, the law provides for the introduction of the same internal border controls as at the external borders of the European Union only if certain security situations such as terrorist attacks or threats in Slovenia, the other European Union country or the neighbouring country occur. The law summarises the European Union's prescribed standards on the way people and things cross the external borders, the control of such crossings and the exercise of border control. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are pleased that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared everything that was necessary, that Slovenia is prepared for the complete elimination of internal borders with the European Union, which is expected to happen on 1 January 2008, and has thus fulfilled all its obligations in this area. We are confident that Slovenia, with its police and other competent authorities, will successfully and effectively comply with all its obligations under this law, in accordance with the European acquis. Slovenia will ensure its security within the EU. In addition, the security of the EU as a whole. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will therefore, as I have already said, support the proposed Law on State Border Control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we will have a third hearing, which is a vote on the bill, held tomorrow, 22 June 2007, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is the second defence of the proposed law on amendments to the law on private protection. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Zinrajh!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u148	Hello! Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Law on Private Protection was adopted in 2003, in fact not so far back. Slovenia, as you know, became a full member of the EU on 1 May 2004. As a result of the principle of free movement of persons, the provisions of the Act on Private Protection, which requires Slovenian citizenship for the security of a person, should be concluded so that any member of the security personnel may be a national of an EU Member State. The proposal for a law thus lays down, in accordance with the rule of law, the conditions for obtaining and withdrawing a licence, official certificates and inspection measures. The main objective of the amendments and the addition of the Private Protection Act is to ensure that companies dealing with private protection are able to carry out quality staff protection. In view of the fact that security personnel, through their measures laid down in the Private Protection Act, may interfere with human rights and fundamental freedoms of others, the applicant considers it necessary to establish a concept of quality private protection training to be carried out in the first phase by the police academy and then by other contractors to be selected in the public tender. In the proposed amendment of the law, the licence for the planning and implementation of technical security systems is divided into two parts, into two licences. To plan security systems and implement technical protection systems. The Institute for the Temporary Withdrawal of Licence is hereby removed as this measure has proved to be inappropriate and even ineffective in the implementation of the law. The draft law sets out in more detail the powers of the inspection body and allows inspectors to be able in the future to prevent the continuation of the offence. In addition, the amendment introduces a provision whereby the inspector, by a decision, may seize the items and documentation used by the economic operator in the course of the implementation of the infringements or have been caused by an infringement. The Ministry shall also allow the drawing up of an official card or licence when it finds that a person with a judicial judgment has been punished for an offence of violence or for an offence which is prosecuted under an official obligation. More specifically, it lays down the conditions for obtaining licences for carrying out a private security activity. The number of security personnel to be employed for full-time work with the applicant shall be determined, which is a novelty. It also provides for a licence document as a valid document demonstrating compliance by the legal entity with the conditions for the conduct of a private security activity. Amendments to the law specify the reasons for the withdrawal of the licence more precisely. The licence shall be withdrawn where, on the basis of a legal decision, it is established that, for example, the company has carried out an activity contrary to a licence issued, that it does not have a covered liability insurance, that it carries out private security without a written contract or that it is contrary to it, that it carries out private protection with persons who do not meet the conditions to transport money, for example, contrary to the rules, that it protects public gatherings in contravention of the manner prescribed by the Minister responsible for internal affairs to carry out the activity and protection, etc. The proposed amendments also bring some benefits. The official card will appear on the person without the employer’s indication. By not replacing the business card with each replacement of the employer. It will also reduce the burden on the ministry which issues these issues. The Law also provides for a reduction in the training costs paid by private security companies. Because security after training will not need to be certified by national professional qualifications. In the course of the adoption of the law, an amendment was adopted allowing the Ministry of Public Competition to grant training authority to those entities that comply with the conditions laid down. Article 8 provides for a method of control. However, the establishment of an appropriate commission is also envisaged to ensure an adequate level of knowledge. The adoption of the amendment also removed the evidence to the opponent of this adoption of the law that somehow one monopoly was exchanged for the other. An amendment has also been adopted which further regulates the transformation of the Chamber, private security, the transfer of assets and permanent staff. Again, some amendments have been tabled which have already been rejected on the Committee and are trying to define the role, tasks and representativeness of the Chamber of Private Protection. We don't support some amendments. The proposed amendments are somehow contrary to the concept of this complete proposed new, which allows voluntary integration and the possibility of creating more chambers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the committee president, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u150	Thank you. Have a nice hello again! The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Protection has also been considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice at its 34th meeting, at which the representative of the proposer gave an additional explanation for the proposed amendments and additions and also cited the essential solutions they bring. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, in her opening remarks, said that the applicant had already taken account of their comments made by that service on the one hand with the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and, on the other hand, with some proposals for amendments to the Committee which had been forwarded to the Committee. The draft law was also given an opinion by the Council of State and was also presented at a meeting of the Committee. The National Council - initially it was stressed that the bill did not support it, but they welcomed the proposal of the coalition amendment to Article 8. This allows for the granting of public authority in the field of the completion and training of security personnel on the basis of a public tender, which opens up the possibility of competing for this activity for other legal and natural persons as well. Representatives of the Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia for Private Protection and representatives of the Chamber of Engineering of Slovenia also participated. The representatives of the Private Protection Chamber agreed mainly with the resolution of the coalition amendment to Article 8, namely the granting of public powers in the field of complementarity and training on the basis of the public tender, and the proposal for an amendment to the 41st Article concerning the recast of the Chamber. At the same time, they suggested that the chamber also leave its original competence - this is the education and representation of its members and the care for their development. This has also been proposed by the amendment of the SD to Article 6 and the related Article by Ambassador Zagorec and the SD Group. However, the representative of the applicant explained that the amendment to Article 6 was not supported for the reason that it predetermined the exclusive and monopolistic right to train and complete only one institution. So to the study, which in practice didn't work out so well. It is therefore also the view of the applicant that this right is also open to other entities. Representatives of the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia welcomed the fact that the proposal for a law had separated the planning of security systems and the implementation of technical protection systems. The members and members of the Committee mainly discussed the amendment to Article 6 as well as in terms of the articles and amendments related to this amendment. In particular, with regard to the competence to educate security personnel. Some felt that the proposed amendments were abolishing the Chamber by building on its basic source of funding. This is the education she carried out as an economic activity. However, other members of these groups were of the view that it was not appropriate, that an exclusive right to train only one entity should already be laid down in the draft law, and that other entities would be able to carry out this education activity in addition to the police academy. The representative further explained that they support the education activity. This proposal also amends other entities on the basis of a call for tender. It also expressed its expectation that education providers will specialize in individual areas of protection. The Committee has thus adopted amendments to certain articles of the law, as well as some of its amendments, and in the end it has also supported all the articles of the law and is proposing these amendments to the adoption of this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u151	Thank you very much! Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 27th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled, 20.6.2007. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the two amendments of the SNS Group of Members and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS Group of Members. I'm guessing no one wants to discuss it. I therefore conclude the debate on this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 6a and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups and the amendment of the same proposer to Article 8. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the SD Group of Members and the amendment of the same proposal to Article 36. Here you go, Mr. Miran Potch!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u152	Thank you very much. In addition to the report by the president of the Committee on Internal Policy, which has pointed out the fundamental dilemmas and differing views on this law, it is in the first place to say a few more things. It is not true that the proposed amendments to Article 8 wish to maintain any monopoly of the Private Protection Chamber. Not in the field of training and education, although this is an important activity. Nor is it true that it would be against the reshaping of the Chamber, even though the views of the Government as to what the obligation or volunteering of the Chambers in certain areas should be very different. And it is interesting that - for example - in an area where the activity is carried out on a market basis, they want to introduce a monopoly, but not the chamber and the entities that make up it, but the administration and the government. However, it is true that we would like these fundamental issues to be addressed in a reasoned manner. This is because, on our question, Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister of the Interior, what is the reason for such substantial changes that are not substantiated in the text of the law, said that the reason is that they carried out two inspections and what are the findings of this control. That is why we have asked the Minister if he can send us these findings. He was so kind that three or four days ago, with the date, was sent to us, and we would like to say two. First, he sent only a review or review report by the Ministry, but not the replies sent by the Chamber. It would be correct for these answers to be transmitted, since then you could see a two - way picture. There was no such willingness. They may reason that we did not specifically warn and ask them. It would just be normal and normal communication. However, as far as content is concerned, we must say that the content of the warnings given by both inspections to the Chamber of Private Protection is such that it does not provide significant conclusions as to what this Chamber has done wrong. What was that all about? They were warned that, in some cases, one lady who was authorised to perform certain tasks did not have a properly proven working time that this period of five years, as required, did in the relevant parts, which was later corrected. They said that some certificates of examination were passed - a very small number was transmitted to those who passed the exam two or three days later as it should have been. It should be in three days, and these are some of the 10 or 100 cases of exams conducted. It was said that tenders for courses were published in a way that did not guarantee everyone the same opportunity to participate, and later it was explained that indeed sometimes these examinations were adapted to the specific needs of the participants. However, the exams are specifically published and everyone has the possibility of cooperation. They said that in one or two cases, the theoretical and practical teaching was linked because it was a small group and was promised that this would never be done again than a major mistake. It was said that in one case, instead of a maximum of three, 32 participants were on one exam and other things that were almost a shame to tell a man if they were considered by gentlemen from the Ministry of Chronic Evidence that a chamber should be abolished because it was not working properly. This is what I am saying to tell you that it is simply for different reasons, that we have argued that we have now received in the report on both checks by the Ministry, and for this evidence that the reasons have been completely or largely irrelevant. And those who were later removed with the full readiness of the chamber to respond to it within 15 days, as it was charged with, and do so. Well, gentlemen, it's not true that the chamber works in such a way that it should be terminated. There are other reasons. Like, you know. You might want to give them a heads-up. With regard to Article 8 and Article 12 of the Act, which is the basic content of the Chairman of the Committee, Mrs Kucler, and also of the Secretary of State, Mr Zinrajh, have today given a sufficiently correct statement as to what the content of this Article is. This article makes it possible, but it does not ensure that the ministry can, if this "if this is what it wants" is also my emphasis on the fact that, in addition to the police-security academy, another institution or association can carry out education and training. I emphasize once again, it allows, not demands. That is why it is not true, Mr Secretary of State, that you have made these amendments to Article 12. You didn't guarantee it. If you continue to act as before to abuse minor failures for inability to act, then competition will not be guaranteed. And then it will be true that what is said is that you will introduce a monopoly of state over the training of all those participating in these security companies. This will be a unique case because this way the training and organisation of this sector in European countries is not regulated. That you're doing this out of some kind of resentment that some people in your ministry probably have in this room that's really tiny. Yes, all the papers we got from them are tiny, because they say exactly: This sentence is accurate, this sentence is not accurate, we will fix it, and you made it up in the Ministry. And I believe that with those who have their work so organised, it is not pleasant to cooperate, especially not in half and in thought, as the Ministry does. It's not true that you're going to guarantee what you promise. And our proposal for an amendment to Article 12 is simply that, in addition to the powers the Ministry has and retains, the Ministry should have as it is supposed to prepare programmes, prescribe replenishment programmes, maintain human resources records, control who is qualified, what conditions it has and so on. In short, everything that has happened so far must be tendered and must have at least two institutions which, if they fulfil the conditions, will be authorised to carry out this education. If that's too much and you don't think it's necessary, then it'll stay with the monopoly you imagined. In the case of a monopoly on the orientation of market activities. Then you will be far from the truth of your taking over how the government withdraws from the impact on the economy also in some important area and wants to have a perfect monopoly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss this amendment to Article 8? Mr. Zagorac, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! We will support the Second Amendment of the Social Democrats Group alone and in the Slovenian National Party. We think it makes more sense than it makes sense. Most of the reasons for such support have already been given by my predecessor, Sir Potrč, a respected colleague. A while ago, this country decided that somehow the protection of private security would work on the principle of economic activity. You have to admit that. And all economic activity is financed or wants to be financed, or its existence depends on some income of financial resources. This government, this ministry, I don't know who decided to cut this thing off, cut it off. In fact, you allow other entities to carry out their education tasks in the law. But you gave the Ministry the exclusive right to education. I don't believe or I'm sure we don't know in this country, I don't know how many private security entities there are. We know some of them, those who do so in accordance with the law and in accordance with the provisions of that law. If there have been any infringements at any time by any contractor, this is not a problem of the Private Protection Chamber or is in this segment to warn. The problem is also with the ministries, as well as with the supervision of the implementation of this only. But with you exercising exclusive authority to carry out private security education, exclusively at the police academy, the only one capable in this country that can do so seems completely pointless. As I have already said, this country has once decided that this is an economic activity. I don't believe it's MNZ who can only adequately educate people working in the field of private protection. However, you know yourself, distinguished representatives, the Government, that, as far as this actually happens, means the abolition of the Private Protection Chamber, the abolition of one source of funding without which this Chamber cannot survive and to some extent the abolition of private security companies. I've heard it myself, and I hope you'll answer me I'll say against my current claim. Even people who will finish this police academy or this police education in relation to private protection will get the badges on which I will no longer think I will say Janez Novak, the safety of Maribor or Sintal or any other chamber will write to him by Janez Novak MNZ. Which means that he's not an employee automatically, but he did some recruitment at the Ministry of the Interior. Although we know that the work cycle of the MNZ and - and I will say - companies dealing with private protection can be very different. Especially when it comes to events and - I'll say - private matters, where it's worth more or it's cheaper to hire - I'll say - someone by private protection. One such example - for example - that happened on the Styrian end, is Rally Maribor, where the organization of such a sports event requires that you have someone who deals with private protection. Co-operation of the MNZ is required. Pays both subjects. The contribution of someone from private security is substantially lower or higher than the cost. No cartridge is substantially larger. However, the cost is significantly lower than the cost paid by the organizer of an event to the MNZ. And to destroy the full functioning of private security in this country, which will happen unless the proposed amendment is supported, seems a little unrealistic to me. And as my colleague the predecessor said, a monopoly of these - I'll say - at least two entities could be put into law. And I didn't get a clear explanation today. I must say, there were quite a few coalition amendments on the board, but unfortunately they were not reasoned. I don't know, either because of lack of knowledge, or because of lack of knowledge, I'm going to say wishes. Be it because they were not prepared by the proponents, but by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but because it does not matter. Even then, we didn't get that explanation. Why or what prevents this Government from granting exclusive education powers, either to the Ministry of the Interior or to the Private Protection Chamber. People should decide for themselves where they're going to be educated. Of course, the price, quality, quality, all that matters on the market will weigh. I am not quite sure that MNZ is the one who can carry out such education consistently and only in this country. Last but not least, as far as I know, for the acquisition of an arms permit, in so far as anyone wanted to have it on a legitimate basis, he could have been trained to know weapons at one of these institutions. But that's when these institutions were entrusted. Today, it doesn't seem like it. I don't believe, I really don't believe that this country is going to be so liberal, so flexible, that when it comes, when there's a chance that someone else is going to do private security education, you're going to say yes at the Ministry, and that's a good one. It is likely that, as the principle of this government is, if man comes from its kind and does not just measure what is stated, the criteria will be any other. For the time being, you have given the exclusive competence of education and have legalized it. Just the Ministry of the Interior. So there are two fundamental questions that I am actually expecting an answer to. First time. Why is it the exclusive competence of the Ministry of Education to carry out this education? Why doesn't he trust himself anymore, suddenly he doesn't trust the Private Protection Chamber anymore? Secondly: Will there be a price and quality of education in the event of a public invitation to tender? Please give me an adequate response, because I will follow these calls very closely. And, last question to you: Do you feel that this cancels the actual Chamber of Private Protection when you no longer give yourself this option? That's a major question. Why did you not legislate if we had already allowed this activity to take the form of an economic activity in this country, if we had allowed them to form it into a chamber, why did you not make it legal? We would simply write into the law that, in addition to the MNZ, education can also be carried out by a chamber which is qualified to do so, which has established or fulfilled the prescribed international standards, which has so far done so well, adequately. As there will be mistakes in educating the MNZ, there have also been here, but the Chamber has responded to them fully in accordance with the law and with the powers. And these three questions are essential when we talk about this law. That's essentially essential. And I really expect, after my implementation, that the representative of the Government will be involved in the debate and answer the questions raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u155	Mr. Dimitriy Kovacich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u156	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President! I must say, the amendment that is now under consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u157	Articles 8 and 36.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u158	Yeah. The amendment, which is now under consideration, does not solve what the applicants are saying, both in the very explanation of the amendment and now in the debate. It is not true that one existing monopoly is exchanged with another monopoly. This is not true, for the law that has been tabled makes it very clear that it is possible to carry out the tasks of training and completing this area, i.e. the tasks of private protection for all those who fulfil the relevant conditions. If the Ministry of the Interior, through its services, finds that someone fulfils these conditions, there is no reason, of course, for such persons to also be authorised to perform this task. I think it is even the interest of the State and the Ministry of the Interior that such entities are as many as possible. Of course, in this case, we can't possibly talk about a monopoly. Monopoly has so far been, for so far it has been conducted exclusively by the Chamber of Education or Training. Now, in addition to the Ministry of the Interior or its Police Academy, he is also carrying out these tasks by anyone who fulfils the relevant conditions and who, of course, will also be granted a permit from the Ministry of the Interior on the basis of an assessment of these conditions. I think that's normal. For the country must, of course, be in the management of economic activity. Private protection is an economic activity. However, this activity is not any kind of activity, but it is, of course, an activity that must be under the very watchful control of the State. Of course, the State must ensure that this training programme is implemented in a uniform manner, ensuring that this training is supervised and, of course, for all entities, it is possible to carry out this training. As I have said, and this is also stated in this article, which you are amending with the amendment. It's written down. Now, of course, we have also heard a lot of words about the fact that if this amendment is not adopted, this will happen and this will be a monopoly, and it will be a very bad situation at all, which will prove to be later. Such warnings, which, of course, are on the spot and can be tried with vigilance and evaluated, are practically a standing point in this National Assembly. But interestingly, virtually never do these catastrophic predictions, which you repeatedly stress, do not come true, do not come true. What makes you think they'll do it this time? However, if, of course, after the law has entered into force, if there is actually a possibility that there may be a provision now that I am not referring to this specific provision that there might be other things, if certain weaknesses were to be demonstrated, or if an incomplete solution was to be finalized, which would be demonstrated later in the course of practice, then there is no reason for the Ministry to draw up later on these findings new changes that we will adopt. But now you're just saying something in advance that you've never done before -- you've been bad forecasters. So far, you have been extremely poor forecasters in this mandate. Never did your predictions of bad consequences prove true. And I can't believe they will this time. Especially not because you're saying something that doesn't hold. He doesn't hold to establishing a monopoly. That is not true, and that the monopoly so far replaces with another monopoly. That's not true. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u159	Mr. Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u160	Thank you again for your word, chairman. As far as poor forecasters are concerned, it seems to me that this one was a little pulled from somewhere because it took some time. Even at any time in this mandate - and if you go to look at statistics, I believe that experts are so capable of doing so - we have predicted constitutional opinions, they have. We had some of those laws today, and there will be. From this session, there are some who are constitutionally unresistible. So don't talk about prognosis. Not at all what bad things will bring. All those who meet the conditions can't challenge you here, and I actually have to make your statement that the law makes it possible. But you too will probably attach my statement, the law exclusively stipulates, I'll just say favoritism of only one, that's the Ministry of the Interior. And also, as you have determined, Mr Kovacič, who has flown somewhere, I hope that statistics suggest that, as you yourself said, it is not a specific economic activity or a specific economic activity that is not entirely ordinary and that these entities are not quite in this country. Then why don't the law include a chamber that includes all these entities, and we have two that are really adequate and the only ones suitable for education? Then we'd cover this segment. Why only favour MNZ? Unless we're blind again, we say, this government is fair, this government is good, and this government doesn't favor anyone. But where do you live? I can't accept that. I can't buy that. And I'm afraid that it will be established, I don't know, by the Education Collegiate, which will meet the conditions, or by the establishment of the "Friday Education", which will meet the conditions. However, I am afraid that the company Security d.o.o. However, from Maribor will not meet the conditions due to some strange conditions that will happen. But that's what this law allows. But if we support this amendment, the law will no longer allow it. And that's the problem. I agree once again with Mr Kovacic's remarks, when he said that the law allows education for all those who meet the conditions of the Ministry of the Interior. But the Ministry of the Interior is a political function, as is the practice of this government to share in political functions - I will say - concessions, places on supervisory committees. That's how she's going to share - I'll say - reasons or desires, opportunities for education to someone else. But as I said before, we have established a Private Protection Chamber. Why can't she be trusted at least half as much as she trusts the Ministry? So far it's been okay. I agree that part of it was a monopoly. We've got the MNZ on today. So, we have two subjects, we can't talk about the monopoly anymore and please tell me one reason why the room isn't included. Don't tell me, the law allows her to get involved. I believe so, but if you gave exclusive, original jurisdiction to the MNZ, you could also give it to the chamber, because so far there has been nothing wrong with it, at least in the papers we've been through by Members, as long as this government, which I've already told on the committee. Let us see them so that we can make our own decisions. But for once, except that I believe the Minister's words, but it was all very wrong there, and I have no one else. I have no concrete data, but it is also known from the letter of the distinguished former secretary of state at the Ministry of the Economy that something is seriously wrong, and no one believes until we have the evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u161	Mr. Potts, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Kovačič wanted to be for people who might listen to us kindly and say that we are actually wrong. But he was talking about things that were half-truths. Mr Kovačič, none of us claim that your amendment or its amendment does not allow competition in this Government. However, we claim that she is not commanded by competition. It's both true. It makes them possible, but that's not enough. We would like this competition to be mandatory in the law. Because if the monopoly has so far been bad and needs to be abolished, then the new monopoly will also be bad. You have every right to believe that this government will make this competition possible. However, we have the right to doubt that it will enable it, because we see how it acts without arguments in this law, and it ingenuously changes the essential content. We guarantee that competition will also be in such a way that the Chamber will have to meet certain conditions. She'll have to be representative. If not, then she will not have this right, but she will have to reorganize herself in some form of association. In short, we don't just give her justice. We say if you don't do it in one year, you don't guarantee, you lose your rights. We're assuming all of that. Why, Mr Kovacic, believe that the government will do this if it is not ready to do this with you today. And if you're still hoping to claim before the public, I know that you're telling the truth, that none of our predictions have been fulfilled. You know that's not true. I recall quickly, the Law on Public Sector Salaries, which we corrected because of unconstitutionality, the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, which we corrected because of unconstitutionality, the Law on Public Servants, where you wanted to introduce full control over work at least in very short time, is unconstitutional and needed to be corrected. The Law on Local Elections, which we have today on the agenda, is contrary to the provisions in part and needs to be corrected. At least, Mr Kovacic, because I know that you are following the work of this National Assembly, have so much consistency with yourself that you do not speak the obvious untruth. Monopoly can stay. It is not necessary for others to have this right because it will depend on the good will of the Government. This government doesn't say good will. And we only allow her to come up with a proposal that will end the monopoly, but also her own government monopoly. What you say, Mr Kovacič, and what we think is the same, is an important activity to be monitored. And no one's stopping it. Read what the Ministry does after the first paragraph of Article 12 and you will see that it has an absolute impact on everything. And he's right to have it. With one obligation, without its good will, whether anyone else can carry out education and training, it must ensure that the very strict conditions it requires are met.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u163	Mr State Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Look, as a negative priori, with a negative foretaste of how the Ministry will act in the field of education or training of security personnel, I find it inappropriate. In advance, to say that something will not be right, to be negative, I think it is already a small family that I think is out of place for her right now. Why the abolition of certain powers in the Chamber? Yes, all along, even in the first reading there was a lot of debate, including an assessment of how and why it was argued by the government. The Government considers that this existing proposed Article 8 regulates the powers and responsibilities of the Ministry in this area as satisfactory. Of course, the Chamber will train candidates for at least another year. Later, however, if they so wish, the entities will be able to join the Chamber and organise it. They have also organised a training system that can be based on specific specific knowledge and which will also train owners for such knowledge. Even now, it was not just a chamber or just a future ministry that would give a certain qualification. See, even when a police officer acquires a profession, it means that he already has a certain part or a certain security education. The same - for example - of the Faculty of Security Sciences. You get even the name of the security manager with your degree. It is said that the width is slightly greater than that of honourable Member Zagorac. In short, we don't think we're doing any new monopolization here. However, there is no doubt that it has been or is now in force, according to our assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Today, it seems to me that the debate that we opened at the first reading of this law and also later when we had a meeting of our mother's working body is repetitive. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. Even in our party, even in Novi Slovenije and also in the presentation of New Slovenia's position in the first reading of the law, we wondered if it would make sense to transfer the monopoly from one person to another, i.e. from the Chamber of Private Protection to another person, this is to the police academy. And we didn't think that solution was the most meaningful. However, if we look at today's amended bill, I can assess that this story is history, and I hope that Mr Potts will not tell me that I am telling half the truth. I will express what we believe in the parliamentary group and what I personally believe is that great progress has been made from that basic form of law through then the amended form and the amended content. The amendment was therefore adopted, which includes and foresees a public tender to be opened by persons, economic operators wishing to carry out such education and training. I find this proposal of the SD Group's amendment somewhat inconvenient if, on the basis of a public competition for implementation, at least two operators have to be given the power to carry out these tasks. Yeah, well, where was it said you two were gonna sign up? There's only one thing that can theoretically apply. But this will show how the story will unfold when the public contest is announced. And I don't think it would have stayed in the air, that everything was fine in this area and that the security was a great thing. In the New Slovenia Group, we are aware that both the profession of one who performs protection and the profession of a police officer is quite different and everyone needs specific knowledge. One, the other. But there are certain points of contact. However, it was only when I gave a position on how everything is good and everything is great in this area that I had read in time in one of the weeks that we get just as much home, how problems and questions arise in this area, that I would say, I was reading a newspaper article on the issues raised by possible abuses by such companies. Here I ask myself, and here I see also the primary role of the Chamber of Private Protection in order to achieve this in order to address these exceptional and extreme cases which, however, cannot take place in the rule of law. However, it is obvious that there are some cases or suspicions that these things are occurring under the cover of some who are benefiting from such a business. Therefore, I do not see the fear that the congregation, as such, would end in itself or that it would even be abolished by this law. Certainly not, it will still be able to perform its role effectively in this Slovenian environment. The Chamber will also be able to apply for a public tender, as will other interested economic operators. So that I see no point in supporting this amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u168	Thank you very much. At the first reading in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we drew attention to a certain weakness that was then recorded in the draft law, namely, this weakness related to exactly what we are talking about now, training and staff upgrading. But now that we are considering this law again at this stage of the procedure, this weakness is resolved and corrected. And now we can't talk about the monopoly anymore. That is why I would also like to thank Mr Zagorec, who has admitted or softened that initial debate and has acknowledged that it is no longer a monopoly. I would also like to say, however, that if the amendment is to be used to order that at least two entities should be allowed training. Of course, it's theoretically possible to write it down. In practice, however, as mentioned earlier, there may be no applications for the first time. Secondly, that none of the applicants or more than one of the applicants does not meet or is not professionally qualified does not meet the required conditions. In this case, this command, which would have been written with this amendment, would have become a dead letter on paper. I am therefore convinced that what has already been written is appropriate to allow everyone to run for office, absolutely unlimited, to carry out this training. It is clear, though, that someone must assess whether he meets the conditions or not. This, you will probably agree, cannot be anyone other than the country which has to exercise control over this activity and also that those who carry out the activity are adequately qualified. By the way, I'll also mention what's been exposed to these predictions. I may have said before that none of your predictions have come true. Maybe she is. But above all, I wanted to say that the vast majority of what you were predicting was not realized. Above all, I was thinking of the consequences that would be harmful to this country. And this was not the case in these cases that you are now mentioning. If you are talking about the Anti-Corruption Act, then it is necessary to know that only one very small prediction has been fulfilled from what you said at the time that the whole law is unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court has said that only one small part of what you requested is inadequate and needs to be corrected. And that's going to get better. So I continue to insist that you are too easily predicting harm and disaster in the future. And I would also appeal to you to stop and make more realistic predictions in these predictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u169	Mr. Zagorac, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u170	Thank you. I'll start with a vehement prediction. If we do not support the amendment proposed by the SD, the Private Protection Chamber will cease its operation. You can write it down or take a magnetogram. Vehemental. It may be a fraction, it may be a little bit, but vehemently, I'm telling you now. The difference between whether a piece of the law is constitutionally disputed or a disputed whole law, it seems to me that in any case it must be corrected and you are wasting your time because you do not listen to the opposition when it tells you in advance when the law is constitutionally disputed or in work or in full. But we need to reintroduce this procedure, either by changing the article or the whole law. However, if I go in line, Mr Secretary of State, you have begun with the words "a priori". We're not "a priori." I'm not saying "a priori" that you are now introducing a monopoly. You claimed it was gone before, but two members of the coalition parties claimed it was a monopoly. All right, let's get you in line and then get on with it. But I'm going to be "a priori." You "a priori" wrote in the law that it is only legally possible for the MNZ to carry out an education activity. That's what you did, "a priori." You've given a public competition where there can be more companies that will do this, but "a priori" you've only given one who already has it. And if there's only one public contest, we have two: MNZ and one. Don't say that the competition can fall because of this. All those who talk about this law know how much costs there are and how much the profits of such education are. So don't talk about the possibility that no one will sign up. I'll tell you that he'll be the first to sign up and if you want a vehemently- Damjan Kolletnik Education d.o.o. and will meet the conditions while the Security of Maribor d.o.o. No, I'm vehemently telling you this moment and you'll see that my vehement confirmation will come true. But the practice so far has shown that this government is either vehement or monopolistic. Perhaps the monopoly is a difficult word, but if someone who finds today that a marriage ground gives him the possibility of cooperation, as we might say, but it is not necessary, perhaps Damjan Kolletnik will set up Damjan Kolletnik Education d.o.o., then this goes to me as a monopoly, given that the holy cow of this government. And when I'm talking about a public contest. Yeah, who chooses those who meet the conditions? State. And in all this three-year practice that we have, I'm very sorry, you've always chosen those that are the right colors and are returning to the right direction. True, you don't create a monopoly with the law, but this monopoly was not before you said it yourself. There was no monopoly before. You said it yourself. Why? Tell me as you said, Mr Kovacic, and I call you a specific economic activity. We know that this is the case in this country; once again, you were not engaged in a limited number of entities that are united in the Chamber. Why the hell doesn't this government and this coalition allow both entities to enter the law? One brings together all those involved in this activity. One, however, is the one who will control as he has done so far, and he also offers. Perhaps, however, I believe that, because I believe that the police are more qualified than the Private Protection Chamber to carry out this activity, they have offered several more to the providers of these services. But that's not what you decided. You went directly to write the MNZ, and then a public competition, perhaps, if you meet all the conditions. Yeah, that could be a monopoly. Because the condition in this public competition can also be one that no one meets, not only in Slovenia, but also on this planet. And so when you say that it is wrong or that it can happen that no one will apply for the public tender I have already said the financial resources for such education are foreseen or are such that you believe that they will easily apply to individual groups. All those I've made are profits in the field of this economic activity. I'm not afraid of control either. So far, this country has done very well and so far, the ministry has exercised very proper control over the execution of this economic activity, according to private protection. I think that's how it's gonna go on. But it doesn't have to be concrete. It doesn't have to be concrete. Let us give others another opportunity to do something in this country. Not only have I told the government before, but you're telling the state, I'm telling the government, because in this country there are some of us who have a government. And not just those who turn to the right side, today and tomorrow, they can even forget about you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u171	Mr. Potch has the floor. Here you go, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I was trying to show where the difference was in the text of the law, and to stress that this difference seemed essential to me. I don't mind. Nor am I surprised if the ruling coalition supports the government's proposals. Why not? Just not with arguments that don't exist. It bothers me that you want to be nice and kind and mention things that are simply not true. The monopolies are not removed in the law. But it can be removed if the government wants it to. And you expect us to believe in the government in advance because it is kind and good. And yet, why wouldn't we believe her? She herself is not prepared to abolish the monopoly with the text of the amendment. She's not ready. And we're supposed to believe that she won't do it in the text of the law. Later, however, it will certainly be her interest to open things up later when the law is implemented. And she came up with a proposal because she wanted a monopoly on police school. She wanted to, and later in the debates we softened him and she wanted to completely abolish the chamber as a public. For her volunteerness, however, write conditions that were completely unclear. And that's the only difference. The government is begging - believe us, even in the opposition, because we think well - the government considers it. That was Mr. Zinrajh's statement. If the government thinks so, that would be an argument for us. But unfortunately that's not an argument. The government must tell the facts, not that it believes and that that is why we should accept it. And you know, if by the same criteria you were assessing the conduct of someone else as you were doing the evaluation of the current chamber, then you'd probably be preparing a law to end the KAD and the SOD. We received yesterday's report, where it is only a formal opinion with reservations. However, the opinion with reservations that KAD and the SOD have acted potentially irresponsiblely and inadvertently and there is a high likelihood that they have damaged their ownership and the value of their shares, even though one should care for the pension fund and the other for the repayment of denationalisation and others under the law of obligations. We'll see if you'll be so consistent in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u173	Mr. Gantar has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am speaking in this article, and I must say that I have read carefully both the article which is being amended in the bill and the proposal of the Group of Social Democrats. I must say that those who claim to be very kind here that the former monopoly is being abolished and, in fact, how this monopoly unfolds, that they are wrong and that if they think seriously that this monopoly is being dissolved, then this article itself is contradictory or contrary. Why? For the first time, as has already been pointed out here 100 times, the Ministry has only had or could have granted this or not if it so decides and there is no justification why it would have justified not to do so. In particular, the true intention is expressed in the second indent of paragraph 1, where the Ministry provides staff material conditions. This means that somehow through this line they have revealed in some way the intention to do so within the police academy or whatever. Therefore, this fourth paragraph is a kind blindness to those who think there will be an invitation to tender and so on. If you are serious, then let us simply accept the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group, where the Ministry does not provide the conditions, but controls and checks the staffing material conditions, then let us write in the fourth paragraph, as it is here to make an invitation to tender on this basis, for the conduct of these matters. This invitation to tender may also be opened by a police school or an academy. And in this way, they will win better or be given this is another issue that is not completely cleared or only one, the best or all who meet the conditions will be awarded the offer. That's not clear either. And there may be problems that will not arise, however, colleagues and colleagues, because the call will not arise and because the ministry provides for material and spatial conditions and will not provide them in a private school because it would waste funds inadvertently. A story that's known, not for the first time and sure, not for the last time. This story is actually called the strengthening of the power, role and competence of the state. In its development to date until 2004, this country has attempted to transfer certain public powers and public functions through laws and public powers to certain non-state institutions, associations. She used to be successful, sometimes unsuccessful, or not very successful. Sometimes these public powers have been abused in some cases I won't tell. But what's the problem now? The problem is that if there is any abuse or monopoly of function, we have abandoned this principle and transferred it all back to an authorised permanent state monopoly. I am my own tradition, the political one on which I lean and lean, and I defend it as I have said a slim state. But what others can do about the conduct of others is under public authority, and let us pass on to them. We're monitoring them. Let's fix the marriage if it's not good. I agree. But we don't carry back to the country, we don't carry back notar checks. Still, people go to the notaries because they prefer to pay something more than to stand in line. That's what we found out. We keep notaries for prices, but let's not end them, as I have explained many times. And that's what we're doing again in vehemonic. A possible country instead of making a slim and transparent country. This is all in the same context since 2004. And that's just one tiny little stone. Therefore, if you believe that it is possible to give public authority, that it is possible to supervise this public authority, that it is possible by means of the competition to select the best operators of this, then let us accept the amendment of the opposition parliamentary group that is here and conclude the matter. But if you do not have that purpose, then it is clear that you want to keep this in your hands, without need and with great harm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u176	Thank you very much. As we discussed earlier, how some have served with a very light heart. Mr Potts once again announced something about the Court of Auditors. Again, you have predicted or estimated that everything is clear now. This procedure is not yet completed. Wait until it's finished and then you'll tell, don't predict. For if only one percent of what you are predicting is fulfilled in this term, then you cannot be proud of being good predictors. You're not. I don't believe anyone's gonna sign up for this. I'm sure the subjects will apply. However, you cannot write down in the law that there must be at least two who will lead the training. Because it's not that I'm sure, and you haven't assured it's true either. He can't sign up. Look. The fact that it is written down exclusively by the police academy or the Ministry of the Interior is only for this, if there is no interest. At that time it is clear that someone must actually do so. And thank God that the police or the police academy, the Ministry of the Interior, are trained to do so. But if there are applications and interests and if these entities meet the conditions, thank God. I think it is also in the interests of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to relieve itself. And I'm sure he's thinking in this direction, not that they're going to stick to it, and that they're going to do it at all costs, but that they want to be able to choose. But they chose not just what my forerunner had just said that they would be able to grant permission or not. There is a criterion, there is expertise that will need to be assessed. Who should judge this as a country? Should Bosniak Zagorac assess this? There's nothing else. But of course, if this decision is wrong, if it is a criminal decision, if anyone is expelled and feels unjustly excluded, he will initiate an appropriate procedure, he will complain and then it will be assessed. I don't understand what we're talking about. And this amendment you're proposing, I can very kindly look at these wishes. But this one, as it's written down, is inadequate. It is inadequate because it commands something that may not happen in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u177	Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u178	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr President, I promise you, colleagues and colleagues, and especially Mr Kovacic, that I will now speak for the last time on this amendment. And I'll only say two. First, I firmly believe that the fear that there would be at least two reported is not because we know them right now. One is a police academy extended by the Government, and the other is a chamber fighting for this right. And secondly, I hope I don't offend my colleague mags. Majda Potter, if I say so. Slovenian proverb: Every excuse is good even if the cat brings it to the tail. "Thank you."
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I'd like to say two more words to that. The interpretation of the respected colleague Kovacic mentions him because he raised his hands anyway he would say it is very well intentioned. He believes that what he is saying, which I generally agree with, is really in this article, but not in this article. First of all, it doesn't say anywhere that the Ministry has to sign this contest, but it can sign it. According to the letter of the law itself, or as they would say, by "defolt," the first police academy or ministry is logically here. But if that's not good enough, the ministry can sign the competition. That's the way it is here, because it provides conditions. I remind you that this is very important and that this is unprofessional and unconsistency in the article. Now I would really say that it is not possible to say that this article actually abolishes this monopoly, but in fact it only carries it from the current regime to the future regime as well. If you really want to abolish this monopoly, at the same time meet the criteria and these criteria must be controlled by the Government or the Ministry. To these criteria, whoever's designing them must give the Ministry, the Government's consent. It's a matter of public authority. Not for anything and things like that, but not for the government or the ministry to do it. That is why I think that this amendment, as it will be adopted - for the first time, is nonconsistent, for the second time, actually favours the ministry or the police academy. In order to calm the bad news, however, it is envisaged that we can sign or the Ministry will tender for the award of this public authority. We didn't get anywhere with that. That is why I think that the amendment should be adopted in my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I'm telling you again. I'm sure there'll be more applications. But this is my belief, and your conviction doesn't mean that then we can write in the law that at least two performers will be selected. Because we can be wrong, and in a specific case, there will be no applications. You were saying - there's definitely gonna be one chamber. Just a little while ago, Mr Zagorac said he knew from reliable sources that if this law was adopted, this chamber would no longer be. Maybe there'll be another room. But we don't know if this chamber will want to do this or not. I believe it will, but you can't command the law something that doesn't have to happen in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u183	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss Article 8? Mrs. Potrata, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u184	Thank you. Good bye to all of you! The problem is, you haven't read it. According to the first indent, the Ministry prepares and implements the programmes. If we come from this, then at the level of what Dr. Gantar claimed, if he does, this is the first task. And if it's merciful, if it can't, then he can sign. But it's not necessary. This is only an open option if the Ministry considers that it cannot carry out this task alone. But this is not about the fact that the competition is open. That's all this is about. Now I don't know if we're reading the same thing or if we don't want to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u185	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 28 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. There is no interest in the debate, so I conclude it. I am putting to the debate Article 33 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 41 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Mr. Run, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u186	Thank you very much. An attempt was made in the amendment to Article 41 to further define how a compulsory chamber might be converted into a voluntary chamber and under what criteria. I argue and indirectly have also been told by the Legislative and Legal Service that the text of Article 41 does not provide this or is completely unclear. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State, but not by an argument "that is what we think" but by what fact it tells us how the Private Security Chamber will be reformed in accordance with the law governing the functioning of the Chambers of Commerce, unless there are certain criteria in this Act that are probably so very different that they cannot be applied for each other in the same way unless deadlines, procedures and so on are set. And that's what we tried to do in our amendment to the 41st article. To say that one year should be the maximum period for training to continue this year, but that this year the members shall have the right to exit or have the right under certain conditions to establish a representative chamber. If this does not happen, all functions shall cease within the next three months and a comprehensive system of training and education shall be transferred to the Government. However, if this happens, then the right may be maintained under the conditions that an appropriate invitation to tender is made. And we said what happens to assets and employees in the event of one or another situation. This article has no evil intentions. But I don't think what the government wrote is feasible. And one more time to finish. I will be very grateful if you tell me how and under what conditions you will do so. There's only one thing I understand. After a year, the chamber's gone. If that's the only thing, then tell me and I'll take it. I just don't know what else to say if there's no such thing as marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u187	Thank you. He wants a government representative? Can I help you? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you also for the question, Mr Potch. The matter is fundamentally changing. For so far, membership in the Chamber is compulsory, as far as you know. We believe that a new quality is given here, given that membership, therefore, is not compulsory in the Chamber. If they feel that way, there may not be a room. So the chamber can simply stop after one year. What happens is in point 4. The 41st article, which we have not changed, has in fact been written. That's the way it is with the property. It's actually specific. And I don't see any complications here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u189	Thank you, Mr. Zinrajh. Mr. Run, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I was really overly optimistic when I expected you to have some arguments and to tell you how the transformation could possibly happen. Mr. Zinrajh, you didn't tell them. So allow my terrible ugly conclusion that you don't know them.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. There's something I'd like to say in general about this amendment. And I have to say to myself that I don't know why such a strong commitment to these various forms of study. But let's just let people do that if they want a chamber to design it themselves. Not that we simply command them by law that there should be some members if they do not want to. This, of course, occurs to us from the former system of socialism, communism. Even today, these same people insist on these positions. They have to be, even if they don't want to be. It's me, ladies and gentlemen, against it. Let's start thinking European for once. If they want to, if they have an interest, then, Mr. Potch, they will set up this chamber. But if they don't want to, why would they make me do something? And I'll tell you something else. Denmark does not have a cooperative law. This is also some form of assembly. There's no law on cooperatives. And they have the largest cooperatives in Europe. Because it says in their constitution that people just unite. And because of their voluntary association, they determine each other’s relationship. They make their own rules. They follow these rules themselves. Why isn't that with us? Because we pushed people into this because we've made some rules at the highest level for them, how relations must behave. And that's why they don't want it, and they don't like it. And if you ask them that today, it all has a negative accent. For God's sake, we're in the third millennium, we're in the European Union. Let's stop this violent commanding that someone has to be a member if he doesn't want to! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr. Potch, I understand you want a replica. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u194	Mr. Sok, I can't ask you, nor can I expect you to read everything. However, if you do not read, of course, the debate can be very, very general. For I - well, I, my parliamentary group in this amendment is proposing a voluntary chamber and the conditions under which it should be formed. And it requires that, if representative, those who pool at least 30% of the income and 15% of the protected personnel, which is assumed by some criteria that were also available at the Chamber of Commerce, be able to have at least two, if there is a difference of interest. So what you're saying is very principled, but it doesn't apply to this proposal. But I, for God's sake, Mr Sok, will be so mean that I will remember when we discuss the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, what you will think about voluntary and compulsory membership at that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u195	Mr. Sok, there's no replica on the replica, but I put you in the debate. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u196	Thank you, Mr. President. This is good because in the debate Mr Sok will be able to answer to the two Members. Of course, if we go to a general level of debate, but I will not go clear that Slovenia is fluctuating between the continental, Central European concept of chambers as binding legal associations in various areas and between the Anglo-Saxon Congregation System, which is based on interesting principles and on the principle of free membership and association. We have, in some ways, a half-way, but first or second, we don't have a clear solution. Of course, if, for example, we say that this applies to the Engineering Chamber as well, we should take back a whole series of rules, exams, courses to the State, this country should do so. We can discuss whether it makes sense in Slovenia to have two engineering chambers or three, which would then separate, say, according to more political principles and so on, and crush their forces. This is a question not only of principle, not only of ideology, what is for one chamber or another, but of practicality and also of transparency. I will regret to say that I will end with the same as my esteemed colleague Potrč in front of me: if you will be prepared to sign a law with me to end the mandatory membership in the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u198	As far as the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber is concerned, we have repeatedly said in Novi Slovenija that we are not for compulsory membership. And that's no problem, if - and I'll explain to you now - if someone sees the interest that he's a member of a chamber, then of course he will be in that chamber too. When is he going to be a member of that chamber? Just as I am a member of beekeeping society - when I see this society organizing some seminars, some courses, and I see that this society is working in the sense of common good. If that's not the way this company works, then I won't be a member. So, all of this has moved on from this congregational association. And again. I don't know this law, I'm just attracted to the debate by this membership in the chambers, because I was also forced to be a member of the Veterinary Chamber, and they send me the bills and nothing else! No information. I don't know what they're doing. The only thing I know is that every month I have to pay so much and so much for my salary. I resist it because I never entered this chamber, but they simply forced me to be a member of this chamber, which, by the way, did not give me any consent that I needed; that is, because they wanted to disable me. Here is a principle that can be rewarded or broken down by the chamber. And if Slovenian farmers are not satisfied with the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, why would they still be forced to be mandatory members of this Chamber? And the same principle applies. And let me just remind you: when it came to the Chamber of Commerce, we explained how it would be the end of the assembly system if a gentleman would no longer command there as it is. But now they are establishing, I don't know, regional chambers of commerce, even more of them will be created, and everyone looking for a link to see their own interest. So it's no less, more people are connected to the chamber, and in larger places it's started to make decisions. And I believe that those who carry out one specific activity will also have private protection, that they will have any further interest in staying in the Chamber, then putting those who will represent them, paying membership fees, assuming that they will understand this chamber about the chamber that helps them. But if this chamber is going to interfere with what's actually going on with us, then they don't need a room like this and they're going to delete it. Unfortunately, it is, and I support only such decisions, why force someone to be a member if he doesn't want to. I do not understand this and no one in this House will be able to give me any argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u199	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote in half an hour, which is at 15.55. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the assembly meeting, which we're going to continue at 15.55, which is five minutes before four o'clock.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u200	Dear Members, please take your seats! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please check the operation of your voting device. With regard to the 9th paragraph of the agenda, I inform you that the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will have a third reading, namely a vote on the Proposal for a Tonage Tax Act, to be held tomorrow, Friday, 22 June 2007, in the framework of the votes. With regard to the adjourned 10th item of the agenda, I inform you that the assembly will hold a third reading in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, namely the vote on the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, tomorrow, Friday, 22 June 2007, in the framework of the votes. The same applies to the 7th item of the agenda, this is for the Proposal for a Local Elections Act We continue with the 8th paragraph of the agenda, this is by deciding on the amendments in the second reading to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 15 of the Social Democrats' Group. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting! There are 65 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 47. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the same, which is Article 15. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 46. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. As no amendment to the draft law has been adopted, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will hold a third hearing, which is the vote on the bill, held tomorrow, on Friday 22 June 2007 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. With regard to the suspension of the 6th item of the agenda, I inform you that the assembly will hold a third hearing in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, namely the vote on the Proposal for a Law on State Border Control tomorrow, Friday, 22 June, in the framework of the votes. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is by deciding on amendments in the second reading to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Protection. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 3 of Article 1 of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 44. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 3 of Article 2 of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 3 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 4. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. With this, the amendment under number 3 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 6a. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same applicants to Article 8. If the amendment is not adopted, the amendment under Article 1 to 8 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 11. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 8. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 8 of the Social Democrats Group. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 36. If the amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 36 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 47. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party to Article 22. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 39. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party to Article 28. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 43. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party to Article 33. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. We're voting. There are 66 Members present and 24 votes against 42. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and DeSUS to Article 33. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 48 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. The amendment is irrelevant to Article 36. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 41 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. 69 Members and Members were present, with 25 votes against 43. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I am giving the text to the proposer of the proposal a law if he wants to make a proposal for further consideration. You have the floor. Here you go, Mr. Zinrajh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u201	Thank you very much. I'm asking the National Assembly to hold a third hearing.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u202	Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting on the proposal. There are 70 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 23. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law tomorrow, Friday, 22 June 2007 in the framework of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda - third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Scholarship. On Tuesday 19 June 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary groups NSI, SLS and DeSUS has been tabled under Article 16. We are moving on to the debate on this amendment that you received on the bench. And I'm asking, who wants to discuss this amendment? Nobody. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposed amendment. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 2. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed amendment to Article 16 has been adopted. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted, the bill would not be harmonised. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I am opening an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mrs. Jeraj, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u203	Thank you for your word. In our parliamentary group, we will be pleased to support the law on scholarships because it brings a transparent and uniform regulation of the field of scholarships, also allowing better access to the grant, bringing significantly more scholarships than we have had before, so as many as 10,000 new scholarships. Our scholarships are rising, so students and students will receive more and thus we provide them with better conditions for learning and studies. Of course, the law, which also significantly improves the field of human resources scholarships, also improves the link between education and the economy, which will certainly mean greater employment for young people, so we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u204	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u205	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Social Democrats will be supported by a system law on scholarships. The first reason we're going to do this is because we actually have three types of scholarships arranged in one marriage text. We hope that the long-term coordination and adoption of at least some amendments, which were considered essential by the Slovenian Student Organisation in order to improve the law, will, however, contribute to the achievement of any of the objectives announced by the proponents. Indeed, it was first said that with the new legislation we will receive about 20,000 new scholarships, now the projected increase has fallen by half. However, if the system is well set up to provide state scholarships, it was heard how the censorship has been improved, but only a few euros are going to go, and if this is really going to bring some new scholarships, it is good. The second issue remains open as to how human resources scholarships will move, and also with Zois' scholarships, some minor improvements to the amendments have taken place. That is why we will support the law in the Social Democrats Group, but we believe that the law itself will not solve all open issues of scholarship, so that substantial movements should be achieved in the human resources grant and in Zois's scholarship, and state scholarships probably cannot be the goal if they are only social remedies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u206	Thank you. Anyone want to explain their voice in their personal name? Yeah, I can see the hands, so I'm opening the application. Mrs. Uhanova, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u207	Thank you very much. I will support this law because the law itself has brought about an increase in the number of scholarships, without these amendments adopted at the meeting. I think the law is good, it will make it easier for students to come to scholarships, and I hope that the final effect will also be good, that students will learn earlier, that they will not have to work so much through student services and that they will also get jobs earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u208	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u209	Thank you so much for saying that. In the first place, I will welcome the decision, including the coalition Members, that they have actually nodded the decisions voted in the framework of the amendments in the second reading at the meeting of the National Assembly. With these amendments voted, the law is certainly better than it was originally set, from the moment it came to the National Assembly. And I also really hope that the law will give or give those results that have been promised; that is, 10,000 new scholarships. I certainly welcome and also predict that I will support the law in such a form.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u210	Thank you. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As I gave one of the 36 votes to the amendment before yesterday to Article 13 and one of the 36 votes to the amendment to Article 16, I will today fully support the law. But I don't understand some "salto mortale" when we all support the law today, when we voted to Article 13 the previous day, against Amendment 35 and against the amendment to Article 34 the previous day.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u212	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u213	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today’s young generation faces several challenges in the field of education and employment. In the first place, as has already been said: the disconnection of study and employment, then a very large drop in staff scholarships from 40,000 to 7,000 in the last 15 years, which is also said there is a poor link between study and work practical experience. Late inclusion of young people in employment - here are our young people on the tail of the European scale. Then encourage the talented through Zois' scholarships - to really have the right criteria so that the criteria do not stimulate those who come from a good economic social status, because they have a good "background" for deciding to study. Care must be taken for those who come from weaker standing environments. Longevity and, of course, inefficiencies of studies, which can also be contributed by non-slip universities. Of course, we must ask ourselves whether all these instruments we have today in this law lead to this objective. Have we considered whether there are enough instruments to encourage human resources scholarships and others? I don't think so. With some, hope is a waste of opportunity. Where is the responsibility of politicians and politicians to ensure a good entry into the professional life of young people? So, we're talking about responsibility for older, older generations. Young people have momentum, they have energy, they have passion. Elderly, adults [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] They must have wisdom. [[...]] Your wisdom in this marriage is lacking. Prices will be paid by young people.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u214	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u215	Dear President! Dear fellows and fellows! Of course, me and all my fellow Members in the parliamentary group will support this law. This is one of those laws that we can say is, however, in the spirit of what has been declared many times, so concern for young people, studying, for knowledge, although it could also be saved differently and what is much better to do; but, "better sparrow in hand than pigeon in the roof". Although I doubt that this year's study will shorten, at the same time let me say that since the 1970s there is about the same number, despite all the changes in scholarships or non-scheduling. And there is no difference, even in your time, Mr Drobnič, was 7.6 years old, I think the study period is average. Something like that in my family, because it was also necessary to excite an army or something. There were always clever reasons why he studied longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u216	Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, students at the gallery! I am very pleased that yesterday's debate has given way to both amendments a positive affirmation - to 13 and 16. From this city, I thank all those Members and Members for their support, and I hope that today's atmosphere, a warmer day, has contributed to the adoption by consensus of a good law, which will be even better with these two amendments and will allow our students and students, those poorer families, to get closer to those scholarships they need to study. The Slovenian People's Party and I will be happy to support this law for the benefit of our students and students. I believe that those who live on the outskirts of our Slovenia today will have more access to studies than those who live in Ljubljana and Maribor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u218	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I, on my personal behalf, can also say on behalf of my fellow Members, Members and Members of the unaffiliated Members' Group, really - we will support this proposal for a law with a few bitterties. This bitterness is simply that with some minor corrections we can achieve significantly more and allow the study population and students easier access to educational institutions and facilitate their lives and studies. Unfortunately, I am afraid that all the government's very promising predictions will not come true with these changes, but some will because we managed to find common strength in some articles yesterday to correct these articles. I am also pleased that we have corrected the article on Zois' scholarships, the evaluation of achievements. I think it's better now than it used to be. It's not exactly my taste, but it's better than it used to be. We have not fully resolved the issue of these so-called family incomes. I think the problem of student work and the inclusion of this work continues to exist, and with this dilemma, and if you want, the illogicality that I described yesterday still exists. However, this law, although not entirely in our taste, is better than the previous one, and that is why we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u220	Thank you. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u221	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! I look forward to this wide-ranging support for this system law on scholarships. Of course, I will be happy to support this law myself. It is not just ten, perhaps thousands of new scholarships, but mainly a good 20 million Euros of funding, which means that the government has a serious intention of significantly improving the scholarship policy in Slovenia. The key thing in this law seems to me that a new start is given mainly to human resources scholarships, which I think are extremely quality and in Slovenia are extremely necessary so that we do not have students for study, but students in order to benefit our economy, the development of our well-being. And it is in this regard that I welcome this intention of the Government and will therefore be happy to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u222	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich. [[He's quitting.]] Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm opening applications for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, students! So, finally, the Law on Scholarship came and it is good that we accept it today with these two amendments, which I have also supported, and I am glad that we have improved the marriage a little. I am a little worried, or I would rather see the law enter into force in the next study year, but, unfortunately, it will only enter into force in 2008/2009. Maybe something could be done here at the Ministry itself. However, I am convinced that students are to study, to study for as short a time as possible or in the expected time of normalized study, and then to start creating and engaging in society. Only in this way will we be able to develop an even faster growth, a developing society and our country, in the direction of European revenue, not just European expenditure, such as all other prices, but it is also time for workers and workers to come to the revenue side in comparison with income. And I believe that this young college and the students who will come will complement and bring this, I will say, so much added value that it will also be possible. That's why I'm going to support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u224	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Dear Minister with a fellow Member, fellow Member and Members! I will also support the law as an obvious majority or all of us sitting here, and I hope that this law will also contribute to making at least one of the Slovenian universities among the first 500 in the world. The law, as I hear now, is obviously very good, and if we sum up everything that we will contribute to the development itself through the 2009 scholarships, this is more than €32 million more than this year. I really don't see any reason why Slovenian students and some say that this is too little, because at this point we can't afford it anymore. However, as far as it goes to the 13th article, which is so widely proclaimed by some as its origins, we will see if this supplement will really bring what you want, or if there is only one additional bureaucratic obstacle on the way to providing more scholarships for the Slovenian countryside, as we often say; but, you know, those who come from the countryside have always paid more in the centres for studies than those who live in the cities. That was, and that will remain in the future, and that is what all those who come from the countryside know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u226	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Your Honor! I will support the marriage, not for self-promotion, but because I think it's part of what students need for their normal study. Much more importantly, however, it is important that a much larger sum of money is devoted to the functioning of higher education, universities, the work of professors and that students can study to make this investment more effective. Productivity is where Slovenia is still lagging behind the developed West. Here I expect work to be significantly more serious for both professors and students. Above all, I expect students who have rushed to the outside preaching of this law to turn these banners, and I hope that on the other hand, something more exciting is written than that, "The government has put scholarships in its pocket." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u228	Thank you. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u229	Thank you for your word, Mr President, Your Honor. So, of course, I will support this law, and I particularly support this law for one reason, which is, I think, also the main objective of this law: that there will be about 10,000 more scholarships. And that seems the only thing that matters to me. Setting some thresholds means more administrations, but I don't want to, but it's just that for every thing - each stick has two ends. I am sure that this other administrative end of the stick will be significantly smaller and that somehow it will also blur the most important part, which is 10,000 scholarships more. I would also like to mention that, once and for all, I will be happy to accept those financial consequences, because the government will devote more than €20 million to the scholarship, and I think we can do so with an easy heart. At least I'll do it. However, I would like this to be one of the possible major steps to ensure that the scholarship is also a form of guidance, so that young people can choose to study in areas where there are great needs. We now have much difference between the needs and, of course, the job seekers, who have such orientations, have studied guidelines that are not employmentable. This is how I'm going to support this marriage, and I'm looking forward to having these 10,000 scholarships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u230	Thank you. There seems to be no more interest in explanation, so we are moving to a vote. We are voting on the law as a whole. There are 70 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and [[Applause]] today's vote [[Applause]] . Please, honored guests, calm down and do not interfere with any further work. We're moving on to 19. This is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parliamentary Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. I give the text to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Tanko, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u231	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everyone. After this triumphant conclusion of this point at the time of the adoption of the Act on Scholarshiping, we have a somewhat more difficult case before us concerning parliamentary supervision of intelligence services. This law was tabled by the signatures of all parliamentary groups and also of a Member of our own, which means that, at such a difficult point as the supervision of security and intelligence services, we have been fully coordinated on the basic content. The new law consists essentially of two parts, a work that summarises the solutions of the novel, which they have prepared and have also submitted to the legislative procedure in the parliamentary group or the work of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. This novel was later withdrawn and thus allowed us to table this joint proposal. However, the second part of the amendment adapts to the solutions agreed by all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, by which we allow the opposition, in addition to the management posts in the supervisory bodies, to obtain the majority in these working bodies, so that it can exercise its supervisory function fully. In fact, the law is further coordinated with the two laws, namely the Criminal Procedure Act, in order to comply with the solutions relating to secret observation relating to the acquisition of data on the electronic communications network, which also concern the secret operation. These solutions under the new law are among the new controlled security measures. It also complies with the Telecommunications Act. Two amendments have been tabled to the law, both of them to Article 4. I suggest that the Members support the one that is more acceptable to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u232	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Commission for the supervision of the work of the intelligence and security services as a parent labour force. I ask the President of the Commission, Dr Paul Gantar, to present the report of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! At its 10th emergency meeting, on 8.6.2007, the Commission for the supervision of the work of the intelligence and security services considered the draft law amending and supplementing the law on parliamentary control of the intelligence and security services, submitted by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, representatives of all parliamentary groups, the Italian and Hungarian national communities, and an unrelated Member, Dr. Slavko Gaber. As usual, members of the Commission also received a proposal for a law, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and an opinion from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The representative of the proposer gave the Committee the main reasons for the proposed amendment of the law. It's very simple to say, it's two kinds of changes. The first is of a substantive nature, since it is a matter of harmonising the law, amending the law on parliamentary supervision, with a new law on criminal procedure. The second part was subsequently entered as a result of an agreement between the parliamentary groups to take away the legislative function of the supervisory body, while the opposition receives a majority in these two bodies. If I introduce you briefly, colleagues and colleagues. So this law, this amendment, deals with the following issues: the harmonisation of the Law on Parliamentary Control with the amendment of the Law on Criminal Procedure for the supervision of the enforcement of the measures referred to in Article 149a and Article 155a; the deletion of the fifth indent of Article 13; this is the deletion of the provision which gives the Commission legislative competence - the issue of the protection of a permanent worker or an employee in the exercise of the control of an authorised group referred to in Article 25 of the Law on Parliamentary Control of the Owl, and certain terminology harmonisation. There won't be enough time for me to get to know you in very detail about these changes. Let me just say that under point 1 everything necessary with regard to the new law on criminal proceedings has been coordinated. That we have also reconciled the fact that new media technologies also lead to the production, production and use of certain data, so that we have included this in parliamentary supervision. And that we have included control of so-called electronic or telecommunications traffic as part of parliamentary supervision. An important point of this debate was how to legally protect a secret worker or a co-worker in the framework of parliamentary supervision. In this respect, there was no difference between the members of the Commission on the need to do so and in such a way that the members of the Supervisory Commission or of that Commission, authorised groups, could simply be prevented from looking into that part of the document or documents which would reveal the confidential co-workers. The problem was, who should order it, who should decide it? There were two groups. One group argued that it should be decided by the chairman of the supervised service and the other that it should be decided by the competent minister of defence. The Commission decided to be the chairman of the supervised service, but at the same time we were dissatisfied with each other's solution, so we adopted a decision to obtain the opinion of the three experts presented as an opinion in the resolution of the amendment, as proposed by the group of unrelated Members. About that later. The Commission has drafted and adopted amendments to Articles 2, 4, 6, 7 and 8, and has already adopted the said Decision. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission voted jointly on all articles of the bill and unanimously adopted them. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Commission has set out the text of the amended proposal, which is an integral part of the report. I'd say two more words. At the meeting, many members of the Commission expressed their dissatisfaction with the abolition of the legislative function, and I also share this dissatisfaction with them, and there may be some further words in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u234	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Marolt, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined and supported the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services. The Government assesses that the proposal is both appropriate in terms of legal system coordination with the provisions of other laws, as well as in terms of the supervisory function of the legislative branch as part of the constitutional principle of the division of power, and also in terms of effective parliamentary control over intelligence and security services which affect human rights and fundamental freedoms. We also believe that the draft law and the amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, the New Slovenia Group and the Slovenian People's Party's Group to Article 4 of the bill justifiably, appropriately and in a balanced manner, extends the supervisory function of the legislative authority to measures taken by secret workers and secret members of the police, security and intelligence services within the executive branch, which has not yet been regulated by the law. We believe that the bill adequately cares for the constitutionality and legality of the intelligence and security services and provides for effective measures to exercise parliamentary control over them. The implementation of effective parliamentary oversight of intelligence and security services is a recognised sign of newer constitutional democracies and the Republic of Slovenia belongs to this value and institutional system of constitutional democracies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u236	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u237	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will adopt a bill amending and supplementing the law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services together with a coalition amendment to Article 4. We are surprised, however, by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, that, as in the previous item on the agenda, we have been given the misrepresentation of some colleagues and colleagues, given that such a way or regulation of this area in this law regarding the legality of this committee of opposition. Let me remind all those colleagues who object to such a solution in the same law, that this was all-party, it is said that the parties have agreed when they have coordinated with respect to the reappointment or redeployment of both leading positions in the working bodies of the National Assembly as well as membership in these working bodies. Notwithstanding these comments by individuals, we will support the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, as it is said, together with the second amendment to Article 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u238	Thank you. Dr. Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. President, once again. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the position of our Group of Non-Aligned Members, I would mention two things in particular: the first thing that has already been discussed, namely the agreement of all the Members' groups, the unaffiliated Member, of both nationalities. This is an agreement that has been adopted, which is likely and necessary - not likely - must be respected. Even though someone may not particularly like it, I do not like it as President of this Commission, because it is a legislative function. But frankly, if I have to put on a scale, what would I rather have in this committee: or a legislative function that covers only two laws, this is the Law on parliamentary supervision of the intelligence and security services and the Law on Owl, or if, on the other hand, I prefer to have, of course, most opposition, I think that the decision for the majority of the opposition is in this commission. This was, if you want, some agreement and this agreement, from this point of view, we will respect in our Group of Members and from this point of view, from this point of view, I warn, we will support the law. It was indeed the position of many members and also ours that the parliamentary supervision of intelligence and security services should take into account the fact that it is a specific control and that other working bodies do not have such a good view of the specificity, detail and nuance of this business, if I may say so, and that other committees that are not members of this parliamentary commission will have to decide on it. This has also been seen today that we have had a lot of discussions, today and at the previous meeting, around certain solutions that require really detailed knowledge. However, let us hope that at least as an interested working body we can be involved in these processes. The second is, of course, about amendments, and two amendments have been tabled. Although the representative of the Government proposes and advocates the amendment of the SDS Group of Members, I would nevertheless say that I propose and call, of course, for you to accept the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. I'll tell you why. Both amendments are aimed consistently at protecting the identity of secret workers or co-workers. The first sentence in both amendments is so much the same. It is concerned by the second sentence, "that in the control of those measures, an authorised group shall check the cases already completed". This second sentence is from the SDS amendment, which means that we can only look at old things and just closed cases, but not liquid ones, of course. Thus, the work of the Commission will be limited only to past periods, but not to ongoing monitoring of the Government; although it should essentially be the opposite: ongoing monitoring should be a priority and past periods in the background. We will talk about this further, and I hope that we will agree, however, to support this Article 4 as proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Non-Aligned Members, or, of course, this Commission will remain toothless if I say so.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u240	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u241	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the Government. Essentially in this law, I stress, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, that the proponents - so at least here write and I have this information - all the parliamentary groups, which is rare in this House. Secondly, I stress that it is very important that, of course, the opposition, linked to the next point, gets most of the members in these two bodies. In the Slovenian National Party, in particular, I understand this law, which is important in order to allow this law to control that some services cannot do what they make up, however they invent it and whenever they make it up, although this is, of course, possible regardless of this law and the proposal for a law. Of course, there is a great dilemma as to whether or not the commission is deprived of its legislative function, each of which can be understood in its own way. I appreciate, I stress, like my respected colleague before me, that the main objective is that the opposition has a majority of the members, that this commission will intervene in an uncontrolled work that has been possible or will be possible in the intelligence and security services, and in this context it is also a logical understanding that the Commission cannot be itself, as our southern neighbours say: 'Kadia is suing, the Kadia Court of Justice'. In the Slovenian National Party, we understand that this law is an intervention in the greater protection of the constitutional rights of people, Slovenes and Slovenians, and thus understanding that the proposal of the law will give more control that we will not always be controlled, viewed in any way, so that this law will give more control, so that some of the services who like to follow the James Bond movies will not do what they want. Therefore, we will not oppose this law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u242	Thank you. Mr Miro Petek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! The SDS Group supports the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, and our parliamentary group is also the first to sign this proposal. We are pleased that we are among the drafters of this law to all the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, including the Member of our own initiative, and I hope that we will reach such a consensus when we vote. The amendment of this law will provide opportunities for even more comprehensive parliamentary supervision of the work of security and intelligence services. We stress that this will only give them opportunities for more comprehensive control, because control itself and its effectiveness depend on a variety of other factors, which we as legislators often do not have an impact. Today’s revelations of events in Owl from past years show that such a well - written law is not enough if it is not implemented. No law can prevent the abuse of secret services and thus the abuse of power, as has obviously been the case in previous mandates. Respect for laws is a matter of democratic culture and moral values. The fact that we are among the signatories to these amendments to all the parliamentary groups in this National Assembly shows that there is, however, some political will for effective parliamentary oversight of secret services. Effective supervision, both parliamentary, government and internal control, is one of the fundamental conditions for these services to operate within their respective legal competences and effectively. Where internal control or self - control is lacking, there must be greater external control. Amended Article 4 of the Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control of Intelligence and Security Services shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act which governs controlled measures in its 149a. It is also good to extend the supervision of the parliamentary commission to an area which touches on the information privacy of the individual. The investigating judge may, on a proposal from the State Prosecutor, authorise a measure to obtain data on individuals also on the electronic communications network. Communication in the electronic network is increasingly diversified in recent years and increasingly used, so there are also great potential for abuse of the so-called communication privacy. While new information technologies have great democratic potential, they also have great potential for abuse. Otherwise, the problem of human privacy is one of the key problems of modern society. And it is true that such interference with individual privacy by all supervisory services is also supervised by the competent parliamentary commission. However, the interest of all of us must be to achieve the right relationship between the degree of control and the privacy of individuals. This relationship between the degree of control and privacy is also a measure of the democracy of individual societies, and the key components of democracy are human rights and freedoms. According to our assessment, it is good that the amendment tabled under Article 25 of the Act by the SDS, NSI and SLS should be more clearly defined that the Commission's authorised group for the supervision of security intelligence services should not be seen in the documentation from which the identity of a secret associate or of a secret operational origin could be seen, such as a dictatorship in the SAA Act. For the effective work of secret services and the security of individuals, consistent anonymity and the protection of secret resources and co-workers is a fundamental condition and such a limitation of views is not only useful in such cases but essential. In the SDS Group, we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u244	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u245	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government! I think I'm in a bit of a quandary right now, because all the adversaries before me have said that with the amendments to this bill, we're expanding our control of intelligence services. Unfortunately, our Group's opinion is the other way around, and this is also shown by some changes. Nevertheless, parliamentary oversight of intelligence and security services is one of the most important forms of democratic control and, last but not least, the direction of the work of intelligence operators, since these services have a statutory mandate to interfere with human rights and freedoms, although they are guaranteed and protected both by the Constitution and by certain laws. In view of the fact that more than three years ago the Constitutional Court found that certain articles of the Police Act and certain articles of the Criminal Procedure Act relating to the use of disguised investigative measures were incompatible with the Constitution, the Government had already proposed in 2004 and the National Assembly, by amending the Criminal Procedure Act, had regulated this uniformly and also laid down the conditions for the lawful acquisition of data on participants, circumstances and other activities of electronic communications. It is therefore perfectly logical that after this time, on the basis of these amendments, the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services should also be aligned with the law on criminal procedure. Because practice in this supervision has shown that this is where different interpretations and interpretations are made on one side of the Criminal Procedure Act and on the other side of the Parliamentary Control Act. Therefore, there would be no doubt in the Group of Social Democrats in favour of the proposed amendments to the law if the members of the government coalition did not try to take advantage of this moment in particular in order to severely restrict the control powers of our parliamentary supervisory commission with their amendment to Article 4. In our view, it is unacceptable that in such an easy way Members in the government majority agree, under the terms of reference, on a professional opinion from the government which proposes that control may only be exercised on matters which are closed if so decided by the chairman of the body, the agency, the service subject to that supervision. In particular, an unacceptable argument, which has also been made at today's session of the Commission, is to draw a parallel with the judiciary when it is up to the Minister of Justice to impose extraordinary control over the cases already closed. Obviously, government proponents and experts are not paying enough attention to certain other legal provisions in the legislation relating to intelligence and security services that define storage, data destruction and materials. Therefore, such a comparison is unacceptable. Moreover, it is even more surprising that Members have limited their powers to the law. This is parliamentary supervision, which we also have to carry out exclusively on our own. And instead of building on the experience of this competence so far, to make control more credible and effective, we turn it into a harmless tiger ourselves. Therefore, it is entirely legitimate to ask: Does this type of control even make sense, in particular because of the responsibilities that the parliamentary supervisory commission and, lastly, Parliament as a whole have? Otherwise, the parliamentary group supports the amendment proposed by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, which is based on the expert opinion of the three legal experts whom we have invited as a parliamentary committee to give their opinion on the dilemma raised at one of the previous Commission meetings. That is why I will reiterate here the position of the Parliamentary Commission, which it adopted two weeks ago. That is, the principle of the functioning of parliamentary supervision is that the Government, through intelligence and security services, is obliged to ensure that the Commissions are fully informed. This right of Parliament must not be limited, neither in scope nor in content. Such an amendment violates this control by content. Therefore, once again, if the amendment of the government coalition is adopted, we will consider supporting the law in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u246	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Moge will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u247	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, good-bye! In the Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that parliamentary supervision is one of the most important forms of democratic control and guidance for our intelligence and security actors. This is sometimes something that some people like to forget in this National Assembly, but it is important to realize that these services, by law, have important powers that interfere with the Constitution and the laws guaranteed and protected fundamental human rights and freedoms, so in carrying out their work they always walk after the blade. Most of the solutions found in the proposed amendment were based on a legal opinion drawn up and there is full agreement between the parliamentary parties. This is precisely why and because it is a complex legal institution, I do not think they need to be summarised in this presentation. From this point of view, it seems to me to point out that these are solutions that have been summarised by the policy on the basis of the opinion of the profession and will, in our opinion, help to increase the legality and effectiveness of the intelligence and security services. In coordinating the text of the new law, we have agreed in the LDS to a compromise solution concerning the fact that the Commission no longer carries out its legislative function, but that its main task will be parliamentary oversight of intelligence and security services. We agreed to this solution because we followed two assumptions. The first is that the Commission's foundation for the supervision of intelligence and security services is the exercise of effective parliamentary control of intelligence and security services and that the legislative function primarily affects the National Assembly in its entirety, where laws are also definitively adopted. Secondly, to prevent the possible blockade of the legislative procedure of the opposition on a case-by-case basis. The fact is that, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the working body has a special position and role in the legislative process, which is also evidenced by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that the composition of the working body must reflect the composition of the National Assembly, which simply means that the ruling coalition has a majority in the working bodies. It must be added, however, that when we agreed to this, in essence, on the work area of the Commission, we agreed to restrict its work area. Part of her tasks have been taken away, which means that in such sensitive cases, this Commission, probably, as a parent working body, has decided only three matters, namely, the Law on Owl, the Law on Parliamentary Control and the Rules of Procedure on the work of this Commission. The specificity of this work is so specific that it can really understand it, legally process it and also search for the right solutions only those who know how these things are done. We will support the amendment of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services in the Member States, and we are confident that effective control of intelligence and security services depends not only on the written provisions of the laws but also on three things: on the willingness to cooperate properly between those who supervise and between those who are currently supervised; on the failure to interfere with current policies in the work of these services and on the very control that should be based solely on the principle of legality and expertise and on the number of abuses of these services for political purposes, which we have witnessed in the past and which we are even more witnessing in the present tense. I appeal, on behalf of the Group of Members, that just as we have found consensus on this law, we also find consensus on the amendments that have been tabled. The Liberal Democracy Club supports the amendments tabled by the unrelated Members, particularly because if the other amendments were adopted, this would further limit the work of this Commission, which, of course, we cannot agree to in the Liberal Democracy. Already, my fellow Members and colleagues, we have witnessed that this commission has powers, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] which he has now, in view of the government's disclosures on these services, in fact a toothless tiger and if we will also narrow down its powers - and the people we have spoken to you here about this law we have witnessed this - what can result from the legislative process if we tighten their powers. [[...]] Then it is better that the National Assembly does not have this commission, for it would only be the beauty of this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u248	Thank you. Mag. Janez Drobnič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u249	Nicely greeted! Dear colleagues and colleagues! And of course also representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! Parliamentary oversight of security and intelligence services is, on the one hand, a sensitive issue of maintaining democratic standards, the inviolability of human privacy and, of course, the danger of political abuse, which has often proved tragic in human history. On the other hand, the role of parliamentary supervision is to ensure the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of these services. Key amendments to the law concern the issue of covert investigative measures in connection with amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, with which the National Assembly uniformly regulated the substance of the disguised investigative measures, and amendments to the law relating to the Police Act were also required and repealed by the Constitutional Court. The law thus provides for adequate control over the operation of the hidden methods, but it does to a certain extent exclude the activities of the secret co-workers in order to ensure their identity and even the functioning of such services. For if an identity were not protected, of course the operation of these services would also be unsuccessful. Data acquisition is in the interest of the State to ensure its security, to establish its foreign policy, including ensuring the economic and other interests of Slovenia abroad. How sensitive this issue proved to be at the latest events in Slovenia when there was a compromise of locations, collaborators and methods of alleged detection of classified information, which not only took the reputation of Slovenia and its government but also caused damage. The Slovenian Intelligence Service is in some ways exposed and compromised, not only in Slovenia, but also elsewhere in the world. It is therefore necessary to lay down indisputable legal and technical standards that ensure the effective control and use of disguised methods of action and the prevention of unlawful interference with human privacy. But that's not enough. Public services, public authorities and employees must demonstrate a great deal of professionalism, loyalty to the country of Slovenia and not introduce political instrumentalism. However, we need to be clear that secret services are not public services that would be public debated simply because it is interesting. Everyone in charge should be aware of that. Amendments and amendments to the law will be supported by the New Slovenia Group because it believes that the text of the provisions can contribute to more effective supervision of security and intelligence services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u250	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 20.6.2007. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendments of the Group of Members: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Group of Members of the Member States. I'm opening an application for discussion. Mr. Gantar, please. At the same time, the review is new, taking into account 21.6. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, a new examination has just arrived, so we need to be careful what is in our hands. I would like to justify clearly why the amendment proposed by the Group of Non-Aligned Members should be adopted and why, in our view, it is necessary to reject the amendment proposed by the majority groups of the coalition, except for DeSUS. As we all said, we agreed that it was necessary to regulate the protection of secret workers or coworkers in the law. There is no doubt about it, it must be protected. In these elements of the documentation or parts of the documentation, the parliamentary committee may not have an overview, cannot know the names of such co-workers and so on. Now it was just a question of who to order, who to say, you have no insight into this document. Unfortunately, the amendment of the three-party groups does not resolve this, only says that it does not look into that part of the documentation and so on, so that this authorised group does not look into that part of the documentation. Who says that? Probably not the document you're looking at, he can't talk. So someone has to say it. And at that time, we agreed, for the most part, that they were the leaders of the controlled services of the Owl, the Criminal Police and so on. However, we were not satisfied, including me as a proponent, with this solution, for a simple reason, because in fact the person who orders this is actually controlling himself. And we have decided to ask the expert committee of three experts, Dr. Kaučič, Dr. Dvoršak and Dr. Pirnat, who sent us an expert opinion in the form of an amendment, as proposed. In what way is the advantage of this amendment: to tell who may order it, namely, the Chairman of the supervised service, to warn that an authorised group has no insight into this part of the document; if this authorised group accepts it as reasonable, this document shall be avoided and proceeded with its review. If not, however, if he considers that this chairman is acting too harshly, however, he may use the articles in the Law on Parliamentary Control of the Owl, as they are listed here. In particular, for those who do not know them, the Institute of Postponed Observations can be used or even additionally postponed for indefinite periods of time, it is said, so to speak, forever, until a change occurs and so on. That's reasonable, that makes sense. This is also in line with the dictatorship, the logic of the law, and allows for the full protection of secret associates. And from this point of view, it is nomotechnical and otherwise, because it is a defined subject of the restriction determination, this amendment, clearly, is better, as it was also written by the relevant experts. It didn't just grow on our herbs. The second point is that, as we have said before, the last sentence in the amendment of the three coalition parties' Group of Members, namely, in the control of those measures, the authorised group examines the cases already closed. This means that the control of a specific group and parliamentary supervision is limited to closed cases, which means cases in which some information or any activity of interference with human rights, freedoms, has already been completed, but not in the current case, which means that the essential functions of the Commission have been completely distorted and that the Commission is in fact unnecessary in some way in such a form. More than that, also, if someone does not want a particular documentation to be looked at by this authorised group, leave the matter open, prolongs this openness for an indefinite period of time, and it will never be possible to look into certain matters. I think it is in the interests of the coalition and the opposition that we have parliamentary control, which will be feared and respected by security intelligence services at least a little. That this is a secure future for all citizens and citizens of this country, that the future is safe for all of us, if you will, and that it is a reasonable solution. Once again, there is no difference at the point of protecting the secret co-workers. At the point of limiting parliamentary control only to completed matters, however, there is a gap between us and we cannot accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u252	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u253	Thank you very much. We probably do not need to convince each other of the importance of the Commission for the supervision of the work of security and intelligence services. That is why I think that sufficient accuracy of content and consequences is also beneficial. According to my behavior, there have been two changes to the law and the completion of the law. One track, which is substantive, is the Commission's finding that compliance with the Criminal Procedure Act is necessary for the supervision of security intelligence services. And they were prepared or justified by a special expert group, and we watched together what those changes and additions would be useful and agreed upon at some stage. At the same time, there was a debate on the cuts of Members and Members in the working bodies following a change in the composition of the groups of Members and a request was made by the coalition to maintain the majority and the President, in the two supervisory working bodies for the security and intelligence services and for the budget and other public finances, provided that the business provisions dealt with by these two committees remove the possibility that they are also of being of a parent to be assessed in the legislative procedure. After several discussions, coordination took place, and the agreement was to reach a text which could also be sent together to the National Assembly for the implementation of the majority by Wednesday at the latest. Okay, now we've gone through some kind of day, but that's not the point. However, from here on, I would like to point out the important difference that the coalition and the opposition have so far not wanted to be interpreted in the same way. Following the coalition and opposition, a proposal to amend Article 4 was made on 24 May between all the leaders of the parliamentary groups, which had the same meaning or meaning as the current proposal submitted by the four coalition parties. In view of the fact that the measure relating to Article 4 may be applied and supervised only in return, it is only after completed procedures. I would like to say that when I received such a proposal from my colleague Tank, it was a good hour for me to request a coordination meeting. That there had been a coordination meeting and that there had been a common understanding, after the day that it would be bad if at that point they had intervened substantially in the competence of the Commission, because this would practically mean that the authorities could say this matter at any time and it is not possible to conclude the matter. While, as we have all stressed, full unity has been achieved as to whether an insight into the matter must protect any form of a secret collaborator - in Owl, in the military intelligence service, and, first and secondly, that this intervention must therefore be targeted, including in assessing the legality of the procedure. This is or is in order to apply measures which are duly guaranteed and authorised under the competence of these services. Either on the part of the Chief of Staff, where he is competent, or on the part of the investigating judge or, in exceptional cases, by the President of the Supreme Court. It was very soon, to my pleasure, that an agreement had been reached between all the parliamentary groups that the interference with the proposal that had already been harmonised was not correct. Therefore, the proposal has also been tabled, as I understand it, for all the parliamentary groups, including the opposition, to support it. Later changes were partly followed by logical questions as to who is the one who determines that, in these exceptional cases, the normal functioning of the Monitoring Commission is not possible and we agreed that it would be the head of the Authority, since it is most called upon to ensure the legality of action. Another question was raised whether such a refusal was possible also in accordance with the powers conferred by the Government, namely that in some exceptional cases it would say: Please, the right of the Commission to control the security intelligence services to have access to or the legality of the order, or more, to postpone for a certain period of time. I understand, but time is not set in the law itself, and useful amendments have been made in this part. Unfortunately, I must say, unfortunately, and in my opinion, in clear contrast to the agreement that we have concluded with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, I could also say against our will the amendment of the four coalition parties has been tabled. Why - I don't know. We have been asked about this, and since then we have also begun to act on this point after two tracks; once as an agreement by all to reach the necessary agreement and realize what the content of the college and the second time the independent conduct of the ruling coalition has been past a common agreement that substantially narrows the powers of the supervisory working body. I don't care what my friend Kumer said about the significance and consequences. I would ask or advise that it would be useful to address this sensitive issue, regardless of the overheated situation, to respect properly the agreements, gentlemen of the coalition, which we have reached together and not to act in faith. Not to deal with these arrangements with a different content that is essential to the competence of this Supervisory Commission with a feeling, since we will give you the majority and the President and we have the right to take a piece by piece the content of these powers of the Commission, so that in fact the majority will no longer have any special meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u254	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss Article 4 and both amendments? Mr. Mogue, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also turn to reason and say that if we had agreed on something, if we had signed these things, we would have put it together in a procedure to stick to it. What is written in the amendment of the coalition's sent groups is, in fact, a summary of what the Parliament's group of unrelated Members has proposed, with the exception of the last sentence. In my opinion, when we discuss these things, someone will be in position, for the second time in the opposition, and I do not think that this commission is owning the position or opposition, but it is the committee of the National Assembly that the National Assembly is exercising this control. And if we look through this optics of good things for the country, I can say that not only does the second paragraph of Article 25, which is harmonised, but look at the last sentence of the second amendment, which says, "In the control of those measures, the authorised group checks the cases already completed." Cases closed, some things dragged on for ten, fifteen years, and we also know things about a service that has been going on since we didn't have our own country, and we are not done yet. This means that almost a majority of those currents would be immediately excluded from all the matters dealt with by these services, and then there would be only a task for the Commission to verify what is already, forgive the expression, the historical significance. It is necessary to give these people at work - whenever we visited, we had a good conversation, agreed and looked at - even such a legal framework that, within the framework of legislation, if they suspect that a network or anything else could be set up, they could, by means of these measures, ban the members of the supervisory commission from accessing these data. And therefore you have: A new third paragraph is added, which reads: "If even after the warning of the supervisor of the supervised service the authorised group requires an inspection," so when he has already said no, "the provisions of Article 27, paragraph 27, shall apply with regard to refusal of examination" and so on, "to the 28. Article." It is said: "If the chairman of the supervised service considers that the conditions set out in paragraph 2 of this Article are met, under which he may waive, for an indefinite period, the submission of data to the Commission or the postponement of individual controls, he shall inform the competent minister or the Government thereof." And in the end, the government will be the one to decide these things. Not to mention the 28th Article and the safeguards incorporated in Article 28, which give the Government in particular the possibility that, in the most sensitive matters, supervisors, if I so appoint members of this Commission, will not be allowed to look into these matters. I think, my fellow Members and colleagues, that these two amendments, which were tabled by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, are a sufficient safeguard from my long-standing practice in these commissions to protect what we should protect and what is in their interest, not to come to the public or to be politically abused. That's why we in LDS are going to support this first amendment. However, it is necessary to know that if the second amendment is supported, the whole agreement, and all the things we have agreed on, is being questioned. We have willingly come to the point that we have renounced the legislative process, even though it is such things when laws are written and when their content can be accepted, do not hold back, only those who are also practically qualified, who know how such a system works. Someone can't just think about it. And secondly, we went to this restriction, which is written here, and what we can't do anymore. Since what I have already said in the opening presentation, but if we accept this in the control of those measures, the authorised group only checks the completed matters, only the completed matters, and then I do not know whether we have such a lack of confidence in ourselves, we have such a lack of confidence in our government that we really make it impossible for these supervisors to work completely, in fact let us leave it in the way that, do not mind the expression, it only checks ontological matters in the field of these services. [[...]] That's what they call the ones that were long closed. And because of this, I ask you once again, let us find how we can find agreement in this National Assembly and try to support this first amendment, adopt the whole marriage tomorrow, and go well with the work of the National Assembly, as well as their working bodies forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u256	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow, on Friday, 22 June 2007, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to 20. Period of the agenda - This is to the contrary the proposal of amendments and additions by the Member of the State Assembly. The draft act was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. I give the text to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the draft act. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u257	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. The Rules of Procedure are also included in the process of signatures that provide virtually 100% support, written by the leaders of all parliamentary groups and by the independent Member. And given that this is an act by which the National Assembly operates, I think it is an act that has virtually the perfect degree of consent. The Rules of Procedure address the shortcomings identified in the implementation or application of the present Rules, eliminate unnecessary rigidities and improve clarity. Subject-matter concerns comments already made in the previous mandate, in the current mandate, the comments made by the Government, the comments made by the groups of Members, the professional services and the working bodies of the National Assembly. It must be said that the comments sent to the business committee were much more than they are now submitted for admission, but not all have received sufficient support or adequate consent. And I think it is right that these proposals are not "forced". An important part of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relate to the composition of the supervisory committees. These will be made up in a new way so that the opposition will have a majority in addition to the leadership function. It's not like that until now. Although there was an attempt in the previous term when the New Slovenia and the SDS had already proposed to amend these articles, the then coalition unanimously rejected this proposal and I will say to it, I will strongly oppose it. These two changes can only be enforced now that the opposition has changed, when the aforementioned democratic deficit has also been detected by the parties who have come to the opposition from the coalition. While the current opposition, which then came to power, has not changed its mind and insists on the principle solution that in these working bodies the opposition has a majority. An important novelty is also a solution that allows the Government to substitute. Given that Slovenia will hold the presidency next year and that it is already very strongly involved in these European developments as a member of the troika, it represents the participation of government representatives, both in the working bodies and at the meetings of the National Assembly, mainly due to the absence. The reform that was adopted in the previous term also significantly reduced the number of State secretaries, or only one, for each ministry before there were more, sometimes five. And from that point of view, that exchange was possible. I think that the solution, which was then recorded in the Harmonised Content in the Rules of Procedure, is appropriate, both for the part relating to the working bodies and for the part relating to the meeting of the National Assembly itself. I expect the proposal from the Rules of Procedure to receive sufficient support. This makes a difference in some matters and, above all, gives greater weight to the opposition in the National Assembly, especially in the exercise of supervisory functions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u258	Thank you. The proposal for an act was treated by the Rules of Procedure Commission as a parent working body. I ask the President of the Commission, Mr Bojan Kontic, to present the report of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is right to say in the introduction that the amendment to the Rules of Procedure that we are considering today is the result of the Commission's work on the Rules of Procedure in this mandate. We have dealt with the comments several times. It is true that many more have been prepared in this text now, and that in fact the views on changes after the 2004 elections have changed significantly in individual parliamentary groups, depending on whether they were previously in the opposition now in the coalition or were previously in the coalition now in the opposition. In general, the work carried out by the Business Commission is certainly resulting in this work today, which we have and which was then signed by all the leaders of the parliamentary groups, so all the parliamentary groups agreed with the Commission's proposal. In addition to the Commission's consideration at several meetings, some news or, above all, two innovations have been added, which have already been mentioned, this is the majority in the opposition's supervisory bodies and the 51st in the present Rules of Procedure, which amends and provides for the replacement of the Minister and the Secretary of State for their restraint. As I said, in the introduction, when the text of the proposed amendments was being considered, several discussions were raised by the members and members of the Commission on the Commission, and the question was also raised as to whether the Rules of Procedure, by deleting the line, were also deleted from the legislative or supervisory function of the individual supervisory body. This ambiguity has also raised the issue of the Legislative and Legal Service, not once, twice or three times at a meeting of the Commission on Rules of Procedure. The answers were not quite clear and therefore another written question was raised by the Group of Social Democrats. We have received an answer from the Legislative and Legal Service explaining that, in explaining the changes in the Rules of Procedure, we can certainly understand that by deleting the legislative function and giving the majority to opposition groups in these supervisory bodies, we do not delete the supervisory function in the field of legislation that these supervisory bodies or the supervisory board also retain in advance in their work. Amendments were also tabled on the proposal, as I said, prepared by the Business Commission and signed by all the leaders of the parliamentary groups. Mr Milan Petek and the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party of SD, the LDS Member Club, New Slovenia, SLS, unrelated Members, the Slovenian National Party and DeSUS, and the unrelated Member to the 17th and 18th Articles, and the SDS, SD, LDS, NSI, SLS, unrelated Members, SNS, DeSUS and the Member of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities, joined in the 51st Article of the Draft Amendments to the Rules of Procedure. By a two-thirds majority of the Commission's present members, the Commission adopted amendments to Articles 17, 18 and 51 of the proposal. With the same majority, the Commission also adopted amendments to Articles 3, 25, 35 and 45 of the proposal and, finally, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Commission with a two-thirds majority, supported the remaining articles of the Rules of Procedure so that the text we have here today at the meeting of the National Assembly was given the necessary two-thirds support of the Business Commission or the Member and members of the Business Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u260	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Branko Grims, following a presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u261	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! Amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are an important act, in some ways we like them when we talk about the Rules of Procedure, compared with the amendment of the Constitution, because the Rules of Procedure are in some way the Constitution of the National Assembly. The fact is that some of the things that have been in the Rules of Procedure so far have proved to be not entirely appropriate in practice, and I am pleased to find that they are largely the ones we have been alerting to since this Rules of Procedure was adopted a few years ago. However, it was obvious that it had to wait for the relationship to turn, that the former position had become the opposition, and today things are different. This made it possible to reach agreement that some of these changes were, however, subject to agreement. Above all, two changes are, according to our assessment, essential. The first is that it places the competence of individual working bodies in the right place and at the same time retains the operational capacity of the National Assembly. In view of the clarity of these provisions, which were quite a few debates at the time of their creation, it is, in our opinion, necessary to point out two things: that, on the one hand, the amendment of the Rules of Procedure is not permissible to be interpreted in any way in such a way that the supervisory function of the working bodies would only be distorted due to this amendment. On the contrary, our purpose was to enable the oversight bodies to carry out their oversight work full - time. On the other hand, this amendment will allow the legislative work to be transferred to other working bodies, to those which are composed entirely in accordance with the relations in force in the National Assembly, and in this way will be made possible by the opposition, on the one hand, to perform its supervisory function fully and on the other hand, to perform its legislative function, which is its core task at this time. In this respect, it is also important to amend the Rules of Procedure to align itself with the actual situation, with the amendment resulting from the amended legislation, from the amendment adopted at the beginning of this mandate, namely that the State secretaries are now no more than leaves and grass than they were under the previous law, but that state secretaries are acting as Deputy Minister and therefore one ministry is limited to one State Secretary. Before that number was significantly higher, the secretaries of state were, as you know, dozens. Today, as they had in the previous period, State secretaries are in practice acting as directors of the Directorates. And from this point of view, it is essential that now, after this amendment to the Rules of Procedure, without further problems, special votes or other complications to which we have witnessed in the past months, the Minister and Secretary of State may also replace the Director General of the Directorate in the Ministry, of course, when those who are first called to appear before the National Assembly are detained because of their official obligations. The Rules of Procedure now limit this to restraint due to obligations in the institutions of the European Union or other international institutions. From this point of view, it is our view that this Rules of Procedure will facilitate and improve the functioning of the National Assembly and thus fully realize its functions, once again, both in terms of control and in terms of the adoption of legislation. We therefore fully support the proposed changes in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u262	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Possonec, I'm sorry, I didn't notice you were present. You have the floor on behalf of the Group of National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u263	Thank you for your word. Our comments are as follows: the proposal introduces existing solutions from Parliament's practice of implementing the Rules of Procedure, uses certain non-life solutions, introduces editorial corrections to existing texts and follows amendments introduced by amendments to other legislation. The main solutions are: the possibility of submitting documents in the legislative procedure also in electronic form and the regulation of the legal basis for the introduction of an electronic signature; the definition of mandatory elements of the draft acts, the conduct, if not contained, and the definition of the procedure for the examination of draft acts governing the same social relationship; a clearer procedure for the consideration of draft acts in the so-called one-phase procedure; a clearer regime for the conclusion of the procedure for the examination of all at the end of the term of office of the National Assembly; a new definition of the procedure for re-decision on the proposal of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union; the harmonisation of provisions on the representation of the Government at meetings of the National Assembly and Working Bodies with the real burden of the highest representatives of the Government in the light of the new position of the Government following the full membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union, as well as the cooperation of those representatives in the international institutions and organisations, and the establishment of the co-representation of the proposal for an act and the suspension of the proposed act. In our view, these are the most important changes in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u264	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group in recent years, not only through the President of the Business Commission, who is our member, but also through suggestions, we have made some useful suggestions on how to complement the current Rules of Procedure. Not because we would expect his more important changes, but to comply with current practice. However, I can say that we have also had a more important substantive supplement, which has not been adopted in the debates so far. Therefore, it was unnecessary to point out who meant something three years ago, or a little more, when the Rules of Procedure were adopted, because the positions of both and others were changing, and even if all the things that the Rules of Procedure then meant were spoken, represented by the opposition at that time, and this position would still be today, it would probably be from our point of view, but we have sometimes changed the positions adopted even more useful than what is proposed. But what's proposed is good. I think that it will help us to make our work more transparent, more efficient, to make the text clearer and that we will not have to hunt many times and talk about what actually matters, do we? However, in the course of the amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure to our Group, we have also drawn attention to the question of what, under the new powers of the Commission, to control the budget and public finances. We had a thorough debate on whether it was good to delete the legislative function only in order to regain the majority in this working body and to adopt this proposal by a majority in the parliamentary group at the end. That is why we have been so much more careful about what the deletion of the entire fourth indent of Article 39 means and whether, as a result, any supervisory role of the Commission for the budget and public finances can be calculated. That is why we have highlighted this in particular, and we would like to say today that we are giving support to the proposed amendments and additions with the assumption which is also set out in this Article's explanation. It follows from this explanation that the purpose of this provision is to delete the fourth indent only by depriving the Commission of its legislative competence, whereas the deletion of the indent should not affect its supervisory competence. I am pleased that, in addition to the SDS Group of Members, this will be understood and highlighted by other parliamentary groups, and that there will never be any questions in this practical implementation. In order to avoid them, and because this has been discussed twice in the Rules of Procedure Commission, first on our initiative, later on on on the basis of Mr Petk's amendment, we asked the previous day for our opinion on the understanding of this article to be prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service. I believe that the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service cannot be read and understood differently than that the deletion of the fourth indent should in no case reduce the other supervisory powers conferred by this Commission. In so doing and in such a finding, the Legislative and Legal Service shall draw attention not only to the direct content of Article 39 but also to other provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the work of the bodies referred to in Article 32, 41. We also add Article 45, and I believe that with such understanding and implementation of the Rules of Procedure, this will also receive the necessary two-thirds majority, certainly from the Members of the Social Democrats, at tomorrow's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u266	Thank you. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u267	Thank you, Mr. President. Nice greetings to my friends and colleagues! The proposal for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is indeed the result of a number of proposals with which we wanted to improve and rationalise the work in our National Assembly. It is also the result of the coordination and final agreement of all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that, in the work of the Rules of Procedure Commission, we have somehow reduced the amendments and additions to those that are necessary, but in particular it is necessary to stress that a compromise has been reached on the proposals already put forward in the previous mandate and that there has been no agreement at that time. In the New Slovenia Group, we hope that the novel will in fact help to make the work of all Members even more transparent and more efficient in handling and decision-making in the National Assembly, with which it will remain or improve the standard of work of all Members and Members. The Rules of Procedure are an act which must contain provisions which are acceptable both for the coalition and for the opposition. In this regard, I would like to point out a solution whereby the majority of opposition Members are explicitly written in both supervisory commissions, the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, as it will be called, and also in the newly appointed Commission for the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the Rules of Procedure of the legislature must ensure that the procedure is indeed the queen of democracy, which in our view also means time-congested and rational procedures. The proposals for laws and acts prepared by ministries are often published in this mandate on the websites, much earlier than they were sent to this National Assembly, even in this way put into public debate, and therefore it is generally not appropriate for some to use all possible business options to distance the date of their adoption in the National Assembly. The New Slovenia Group is therefore a co-signatory of the draft amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and will also support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u268	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u269	Dear President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! As already mentioned, the current Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were adopted in 2002 and regulated the planning and transparency of the legislative procedure or the transparent work of the National Assembly. Some shortcomings, such as the quality of the Rules of Procedure and the ever-increasing informationisation of the work of the National Assembly, dictate the need for changes to the Rules of Procedure. With the changes we want to have an even more transparent and efficient procedure, but in fundamental principles it is not different from valid. For the Slovenian People's Party's Group, it is crucial that the Rules of Procedure ensure the possibility of quality work for both opposition and coalition parliamentary groups. The first must be able to carry out appropriate controls and, of course, to manage or make decisions. The proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure are certainly not moving away from this fundamental business purpose. Given that we have addressed the Rules of Procedure or its amendments to the Rules of Procedure Commission, it is likely that we will also approve or adopt it at this meeting. In the course of the amendments, he might also point out the possibility of investing documents in the legislative process in electronic form and arrange for the legal basis for the introduction of electronic signatures. We have recently adopted a number of laws in the National Assembly, particularly in the field of public administration and in the field of judicial proceedings, by which we want to simplify and inform as much as possible. I think that the introduction of electronic documenting in the legislative process will be an important novelty. Perhaps most of the experts who have now spent a lot of time collecting signatures for the various amendments involved in co-proposal. In addition, Members will set an example for other citizens to use modern information technologies. The proposed amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will be supported by the Members of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u270	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u271	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the amendments and additions. We estimate that working in the National Assembly will be easier through a complementary proposal or a proposal adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u272	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal for an act, I conclude the second reading of the proposal for an act. Third reading, this is a decision on a proposal for an act, in accordance with the timing of the assembly meeting tomorrow, Friday, 22 June 2007, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 29th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a nice day!
