ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear Members and honourable Members, a lovely greeting! I begin the 30th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mag. Janez Drobnič, Mr. Franc [[Ferry]] Horvat, Mr Miran Jerič, Mr Anton Kokalj, Branko Marinič and Mr Franz Pukšič. I invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to agenda items 1 and 15, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, the representative of the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia on agenda 24 and the representative of the Council of Justice on agenda 28th. I say hello to everyone! We are moving on to the agenda of the 30th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 29 June 2007. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We move on to a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The LDS Group proposes to withdraw from the agenda: Proposal for a Law on the Provinces, first reading, Proposal for an Law on the Elections in the Regions, first consideration, and Proposal for a Law on the Financing of the Provinces, first consideration. You received a motion for withdrawal by letter dated 5 July 2007. I propose that we discuss all proposals for withdrawal together and vote on each proposal individually after the discussion is closed. Would you like a representative of the motions to withdraw? Here you go, Mr. Skull, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In our Group of Members, we believe that it is not yet appropriate to decide whether all three laws are suitable for further consideration. The problem with the consideration of this package is that the Government did not submit a fourth law to the National Assembly for consideration, which is a law that would tell what the number of provinces and what the territory of the provinces will be. The package debate we agreed on in college, however, directly requires that the comprehensive treatment of these three laws is also based on a law that lays down the territory of the provinces. Without it, there will be too many questions open and there will be too many speculations without it. It is not possible to separate these three laws from how Slovenia will truly be divided territorially. Anyone who thinks this is possible, that it is a technical issue, underestimates Members and Members, underestimates all the interested public and casts sand in the eyes of those who only take the procedures legally. Territorial division is the key to understanding the new provincial legislation. If, first of all, how should we deal with a marriage that we don't have, then it's another. Therefore, Mr President and honourable Members, I believe that we will do more for a coherent adoption of regionalisation if we vote today to withdraw this point, wait for the fourth law and we will discuss all of them together in the autumn normally. Thank you very much for your attention. It seems to me that some of the people who have been destined to do this are predetermined in advance. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] not to listen to anyone, to any argument. [[...]] Thank you, too, Mr Jerovšk.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u3	Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I am opening an application for a debate on behalf of the groups of Members. The application is ongoing, please log in. Mr Kontic, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In recent months, we have repeatedly warned the Government and the competent ministry in the Group of Social Democrats that it is late in preparing the promised package of legislation. One year has passed since we changed the three articles of the Constitution and made it possible for us to prepare and adopt laws that should also be discussed at today's meeting. Let me also say that, in the Group of Social Democrats, we have requested, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a general hearing, i.e. this first hearing, which would take place at this meeting, should the hearing take place. We have cooperated to the extent that we have been invited to participate in the preparation of this legislation by making comments and our suggestions. Some of this has been taken into account in the drafting of legislation, of course the legislation has been improved, but it is not such that it can be supported in the Group of Social Democrats at this time. A substantive debate is still needed, changes are still needed within these laws and then, of course, decisions. We will not object to the debate at this meeting of the National Assembly, but we expect that by autumn, by the time we deal with these laws at second reading, we will have what is now missing or more than we have laid down the conditions that we have set for all of them. We also think that we need legislation in the package, so we need the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes; this is not the most important law on content and financing, or whether these laws will reflect the actual state of division of Slovenia into provinces. We know that this law is now under public scrutiny. The results of this treatment are not yet known to us. There are likely to be referenda, and it would be appropriate for us to deal with these laws in the second reading in the package. At the same time, I would like to point out that it would be good, and we also expect the Ministry or the Government to present to us this so-called technical law that confers powers on us. We'll know very precisely at that time what kind of powers there will be. Now it is loosely listed in two articles. And the calculation of landscape financing, some sort of simulation that's not there now. And finally, in this process of adoption, it will be necessary to pass the law on elections to the provincial councils at the first elections, because later this will be done by the provincial council, and this is also a very important law. That is why we want in fact, this is also our condition for the second reading, that we have this package of legislation that will be fairly clear and will answer the questions that are actually still open at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u5	Thank you. Mr Pece, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u6	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, unlike the position of the Liberal Democracy Club, we do not claim that it is a matter of underestimating Members and Members, but it is in the case of a set of provincial legislation for mockery from citizens and citizens. In our country, we have already had a story of sharing in the field of local communities. What's the result, we all know. From some 10 congregations in early 1994 to over 200 municipalities or local communities in this year. By increasing the number of individual micro or macro levels within our country, powers and funding are also lost. But the fact is that the number of enlargements of individual local communities has always been due to the current political authorities. Thus, the former political authority, based on local elections or the current political authority, adjusted its own feud on the basis of the results of local elections. And since we have no assurance that this will not happen at the provincial level, in this case in the national party of such a set, whether it be complete or only in three quarters, we cannot support it. The proposal by the national party before we adopted amendments to the Constitution in that area was to introduce the number of provinces into the highest legal act within our country, i.e. the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. For the first time, we estimate that only on the basis of a fixed and guaranteed number of landscapes for the future can we determine the content, which on the one hand means obligations, on the other hand, rights and not least supported by funding. In the event that we do not have a guarantee in our country that the number of provinces will last for at least 10 years, honourable Members and Members, it is very inappropriate to speak about the tasks, because we all know that the number of provinces will change on the basis of the elections or the results of the elections to the provincial authorities. We therefore assess from this title, as I said at the outset, that it is not a matter of mockery of Members and Members; you have all supported, with the exception of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, constitutional changes. All of you seek to see the inflation of the provinces over time, and thus to make fun of the citizens. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we therefore insist that if you wish to receive our votes in this set, you can guarantee to citizens and citizens that if they believe in the provinces, these provinces should be long-term and be credible, the provinces should be committed, rights and ultimately what is most important, with their long-term funding source. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] However, this is not within the scope of the proposed laws. Therefore, once again, in terms of establishing landscapes, political popularity and nothing else is exclusively at stake. Therefore, we will support the national party [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Jazbec, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u8	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group disagrees with the LDS proposal for the adoption of provincial legislation to wait until the so-called fourth law is finally drafted, namely the Law establishing the Provinces. In their explanation for the withdrawal proposal, the LDS Club refers to the fact that, according to them, the number of landscapes, their size and their borders depends on the overall arrangement of the provinces, which we estimate in the SDS is a bit ridiculous and misleading, as the first package of provincial legislation went through the coordination procedure both in the coalition and in the opposition. And it was these coordinations that were designed to make comments and ideas and performances. This was the time when the LDS Club, under the leadership of Mr Toneto Ropa, was informed and the Member State Club also made its comments on the legislation, but nowhere was there a wish to depart from the deadline for the adoption of provincial legislation. We all know that we started establishing the provinces in 2006 with a change in the Constitution, and a broad debate on this topic has an even longer history. In May 2007, the Government also adopted only a proposal for a law to determine the areas of the provinces, their seats and names, which forms a basis for the further design of the provinces. This proposal is presented in a 60-day public debate, from which constructive proposals and many consensus are expected. We are also aware that the adoption of the so-called fourth law requires a great deal of political consensus. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that there is no reservation that the general debate on the first three laws should not be carried out, as it can bring many new views or new proposals that would contribute to this legislation and can also dispel individual concerns. We also have parliamentary holidays ahead of us, which will take the second treatment of these laws both at the working body and at the meeting of the National Assembly in the autumn, and by then the fourth law is expected to be finalized. Thus, there is no reason why we should postpone the general debate. We will not support the proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, and we believe that it is only an unnecessary delay in the LDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u9	Thank you. Mrs Zalokar Orazem, on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The unrelated members of the Association will indeed support the proposal to withdraw the provincial laws, the three laws governing the provinces, which is, of course, logical in view of the current state of discussion in this regard. It is a pity that the Government and the ruling coalition have not made better use of the general consensus and great support for the establishment of the provinces, which we have expressed in the National Assembly, in particular when amending the laws that allow this. We think there's been enough time and opportunities. There was also a debate, but unfortunately we note that most of the proposals or key proposals regarding the establishment of the provinces have unfortunately not been heard and we expect that they will not be heard by autumn. Here, in particular, it seems to us that an irrational, inappropriate decision is poor and unprofessional, when the government actually proposed at the first step that we establish 14 provinces. This is a proposal that does not take into account the profession, because in its entirety, all experts who have ever participated in the drafting of laws concerning the provinces have always appealed that there should be no more than eight provinces in Slovenia. The government has done itself a bear service, has proposed 14 provinces and has thus created new and new requirements, in our opinion fully justified also from some neglected and unheard environments such as Upper Gorenjska, part of central Slovenia, White Landscape and so on. Such suggestions will likely be even more so, for the spirit has escaped from the bottle. The government has drafted, as it said, a politically acceptable law or proposal regarding the number of provinces. Of course, we are also disturbed by everything else, a way of financing that encourages the fragmentation of the landscapes at the first step and we will have them, as the Slovenian National Party believes, even more and more, because the formula is very similar and encourages. Nor are the competences assigned, and there is still a half-agreement on unity. Ministers have every view, Mr Virant, for public administration and for local self-government, Mr Žagar, on this matter and leave the matter open to some later events. There are no calculations, no costs, but we will establish provinces where there will be more than 500 officials, for whom there will be a need to provide space and so on. We support the establishment of landscapes, but rationally, rationally, the number that is appropriate, but not fragmented, because more than the province, the greater centralisation will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u11	Thank you. I hereby conclude the debate and ask Members and Members to check the functioning of their voting apparatus. We will decide on the proposal to withdraw the draft law on the provinces, the first consideration, from the agenda. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 42. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal to withdraw the bill on elections in the provinces, the first consideration, from the agenda. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 43. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. We will decide on a proposal to withdraw the proposal for a law on the financing of landscapes from the agenda. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 43. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. That leaves all three laws on the agenda. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda, so we are moving on to a decision on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference to the meeting. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 56 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the agenda for the 30th meeting of the assembly has been set. I hereby adjourn the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue at 3 p.m. with the consideration of item 1 of the agenda, which is with questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u12	Dear Members and honourable Members! We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 28 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Below, Dr Jure Zupan, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, will answer Mr Aleš Gulic's question at the 29th meeting of the assembly, to which he did not receive an answer due to his absence. Mrs. Maria Possonec's emissaries, mag. Majda Potrat and Mrs Darja Lavtijar Bebler and Member of Magi. Borut Saiovic, who has reported on two issues, will ask the second question when all the Members who report ask one question. Each Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but does not have to ask an additional question. I ask Members and Members to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of Public Administration Dr. Gregor Virant, Minister of Finance Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Transport Mag. Mr Janez Bozič, Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr Dimitrij Rupel from 16.30 p.m., Secretary General of Government mag. God's Chamberlain from 4:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, Minister or Secretary-General of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral response; in this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On the bench, you have received a review of the questions and initiatives that have not yet been answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. In this regard, I inform you that Members, Mr Sašo Peca and Mr Boštjan Zagorac, have also announced questions to the Minister for Environment and Space, for which the Minister is not responsible, so he will not answer any questions. The MEPs addressed both questions to the two ministers, so only the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Transport will answer the questions. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be the question sent [[...]] [[background advertising]] Do you have a suggestion, Mr. Pece? [[...]] Here you go. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would ask the National Assembly to decide whose house this is. Is this the house of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and of Mr Janez Janša, or is this the house of the National Assembly? Following the Constitutional Order of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly, as the legislative branch of power, is sovereign within its rights, as is the sovereign Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, last but not least, the judiciary. On Friday, when it was time to submit the questions sent, the Sections of the National Assembly adopted my question of the Members and colleagues of Zagorec, which was addressed in accordance with the legislation, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since when, Mr President, does Minister Podobnik have the right to determine whether or not he can be asked a question by a Member of Parliament? Since when is Minister Podobnik the man who can remove energy from his circuit? Since when is Minister Podobnik the man who can exempt highway stations from his work before the public? I do not think it is right that you have again submitted to the work of the National Assembly of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me to remind you once again of what you have been reminded by the last half of the National Assembly, which consists of the opposition, that the National Assembly is an independent branch of power and is not subordinate to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Members and Members were loved in the elections, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was elected in this house, so it is not right to the credibility of this house, to restrict the rights of Members and Members and to take individual ministers to the defence. Mr Podobnik, in his letter to the parliamentary group, forwarded by fax, of course, tried to avoid his work, which, according to my opinion, even corruption, he is doing within his ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u14	Mr Pece, it is true that the National Assembly is an autonomous branch of power, the legislative branch of power and the autonomous branch has adopted the Rules of Procedure, which states in Article 240 that any Member may ask the Government or individual minister, and so on, a certain question in the field of government or individual minister or government service. That is why I am sending only those questions to the Minister-designate who belongs in his department. And I think we can close this issue and this debate. I decide on the rules of procedure and the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Zagorac, if you too will abuse the rules of procedure and use your procedural proposal to open a new controversy, I will take away your microphone. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u15	Thank you for your word. Your question was addressed to the Minister-General, because otherwise he would not be able to answer it - for the first time. Secondly, as far as I know, highway stations are within the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Space, given that this ministry has written a decree on this. Therefore, I cannot accept in any way the desire of Minister Podobnik not to respond to this, given that his ministry has prepared a decree, which shows that it is a matter of competence, so I ask you, Mr President, to ensure that this house is truly answered and does not fabricate any individual minister's responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u16	The first question will be put to the Prime Minister of the Government by Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u17	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Council of Ministers, Mr President Janez Janša! In December, the Minister of Health defended and, with the majority of the votes of the ruling parties, also defended the interpretation of many mistakes, illegality and bad work. At that time, we found him primarily unprofessional in the preparation of public invitations and irregularities in the procurement of medical equipment and in the responsibility for delays, with particular reference to the purchase of operating tables and a linear accelerator. We have seen great delays, poorly prepared and uncoordinated marriage proposals, as we still do not have a law on patient rights, on mental health, on long-term care. Slovenia has also been without a coordinated health network for years at all levels and for two years without a strategy. Laws such as medicine and patient rights are prepared without agreement with the non-governmental sphere and without taking into account the experience of the Ombudsman. The Minister avoids conversation, dialogue and coordination. The area of granting concessions is still weak and inadequate, but concessions and the decommissioning of the health system are still under way, and we are seeing wild and accelerated privatisation for the minister. There's no vision and no concept. How they don't know how in health care, not in hospitals. In the field of waiting periods, the Minister has not yet prepared a national order system to show the real state of waiting periods. The Minister finds himself in a number of misleading and incorrect data. In the field of insurance, it allows illegal forms of insurance to be taken from patients’ pockets by additional means to cross waiting types. He also failed to prepare a law on the reshaping of the Mutual. Slovenia is also subject to strong criticism due to an inadequate field of health insurance. We've been reading all this to the minister six months ago, but unfortunately, nothing's changed until today. More. There are new affairs and problems that the Minister is unable to manage. Helicopters, which is still financially open, have all joined the Pediatrics Clinic affair, where it was found that the Minister was involved and that a high level of quasi-consultation funds were allegedly misused. With regard to the Oncology Institute, he was delayed in correcting his mistakes, even though he was invited to this patient society in March. He appointed the Commission on a two-month delay. This will allow patients to lie in poorly air-conditioned rooms during the summer, at unhumanly high temperatures, and will only be repaired in the autumn. In view of everything you have said, Mr Janša, I ask: Does Minister Bručan still enjoy your confidence? Do you still believe that his work is quality enough and appropriate to remain a minister of health?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u18	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u19	Thank you so much for asking. I answer to a classic conclusion. Every minister in the government enjoys my trust while he's in this place. However, with regard to specific statements, I will only repeat things that I have answered several times in my questions or during my questions, because the situation has not changed here, and yet the obvious, even the unwarranted, are repeated. The Slovenian health system is certainly not ideal, there are certainly reserves where there is still much to improve and this will be necessary in the future. However, it has the same skills as health systems in all other European countries, where needs are increasing, the population is ageing, medicine and science are advancing, and so many things can be solved today, which has sometimes not been. But the resources for this are limited. The funds are not increasing as quickly as possible and there is always a need to look for reserves and improvements. So we don't have an ideal system, but we certainly don't have the worst health system. To claim such a thing is contrary to reality. According to known evaluations, the Slovenian health system is placed somewhere in the middle of the European Union Member States and, after some segments, at the top. This, of course, does not solve those problems that arise in concrete terms, which always then spread out and are accused on the basis of one case of thousands of people who work well or degrade the entire health system. Specifically on the things that have been said. It's a pediatric clinic. It's a story with a very long beard. It started a long time ago. It was not until last year that the current Minister of Health managed to lead things to the conclusion of a contract to finally see a light at the end of the tunnel. In this regard, there have been indications of certain irregularities that are expected to occur in the relationship between private companies. This is being investigated by law enforcement agencies. I'm sure they'll do their job well. When it comes to the Oncology Institute, which is a permanent topic, it must be said that the Oncology Institute project, which was launched between the previous mandates and the project, which was also completed under previous mandates, was built to the end with all the mistakes that occurred. No one was responsible for these mistakes. The blame lies solely with the minister, who is now trying to correct these mistakes. If the project was missed somewhere, if there were some design of small hospitals and too narrow doors and so on, and this was all built, it cannot be the fault of the current minister, very difficult for the former ministers directly, because it is not a matter for former ministers to deal with. Surprisingly, no one has ever pointed fingers at people who have been specifically involved in this for many years and have always been presented as successful and good experts. As far as helicopter emergency medical care is concerned, I have explained the matter three times in my replies to the questions of the Member States so far, and I really do not see the point of repeating this over and over again. When it comes to concessions, I reiterate the fact that there is still the same system as it was established in previous mandates, that concessions are granted on the basis of the same rules of the game as they used to be, have improved at times, and that this area or award of concessions cannot be misused for the argument that it is a matter of privatization of health. If we compare the number of concessions awarded in the previous mandate and how many are now at the primary and secondary level, you will see that more have been awarded before, but there is no discussion of the sale of the public health system or privatisation. So specific answers to specific things already said many times, but apparently not heard enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u20	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u21	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. President of the Government. Unfortunately, however, you have disappointed me with him, and you have obviously disappointed me with the poor knowledge of the health situation and problems. With further support, despite the opposition telling you that it is already preparing a second interpretation against Minister Bručan in this mandate, you are also directly taking responsibility for the deteriorating health situation and where patients are increasingly reporting that the situation is critical, that there is an apparent planned breakdown of the once-solid health system. In his work, the Minister almost completely forgot and neglected the patients and their interests. Despite the financial benefits you like to tell us, however, we are not preparing adequately for the long-term problems that you have also talked about, which are waiting for us because of the increasing population ageing and the associated increased need for health services, medicines and care for the elderly. Many doctors are overloaded due to poor organization and uneven burden. We are late in innovative approaches and rationalisation at all levels, we are concerned and threatened because doctors are increasingly working and being unfriendly to patients because of the various pressures and problems in jobs. The Minister is unable to find time to deal with real and strategic tasks because of a number of affairs in which he is involved, arrogance and evasiveness. Therefore, Mr Janša, I ask you once again: Do you really think that Slovenian health care and patients are currently not doing much and irreparable damage?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u22	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u23	Thank you, too, for this additional question. I would hardly say thank you for these statements, because it is always possible to make one or two cases of black scenarios that fade and fade after looking at the whole system. Slovenia today is not a lonely island in the middle of an evaluation, it is part of the European Union, it is part of some processes that are being evaluated and measured and, according to these measurements, there is no breakdown of the health system in Slovenia and according to the quality of this system belongs somewhere in the middle or in the European average. I agree, however, that the Minister has too little time to deal with strategic matters, where he is asked every day whether the last screw breaks on the operating table in the last hospital or in the health centre where he is attacked every day because of two degrees of excessive temperature in the hospital rooms and has to explain every day things that are not dependent on the minister in any normal country and are not in Slovenia. So I suggest that, however, this way of work changes slightly, that dialogue takes place where there are proposals and that things begin to be regulated in some good faith. One criticism alone will certainly not help to improve the health system, even ten written interpretations will not change anything, especially if the first ones signed under such interpretations are also personally unworthy. The Member of Parliament, who signed the first interpellation, which asked this question today, had several mandates of the mayor of one of the municipalities and at that time disproportionately many concessions were granted to that municipality at the primary level in health care, to eight doctors, to six dentists and two pharmacies. No one has charged that the health system is being disrupted and I suggest that the same vats be used even when the work of the minister is being assessed.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u24	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mrs. Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u25	Thank you very much. In view of this last statement, I would like to say that concessions in the Domžale municipality were granted in accordance with the strategy adopted by the municipal council, and this strategy has been considered and we have assumed that we will grant up to 50% of the concessions. Such strategies, Mr President of the Government, Slovenia does not have at this time and therefore I believe that everything is different, whether things are doing well controlled, whether the contracts are well drawn up, or whether the doctors comply with their concession obligations, work in health homes, in the emergency room and so on. So if you ask the Domžals if they're satisfied with it, they'll say yes. Unfortunately, however, the number of concessions awarded by Minister Bručan, including some which he had granted to his friends, were not such and were not in the public interest. Nevertheless, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will not suggest that a special debate be held despite an inadequate response. Either way, you turned her down with that laugh a few seconds ago, and obviously, all we have to do is re-enter the interpolation. But it would be right, Mr President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Zalokareva. If you do not have a procedural proposal, you do not have the right to remain for up to 3 minutes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u27	if you had ever listened to a public opinion [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mrs. Zalokareva.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u29	Thank you for taking my word!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u30	The next question will be asked by Mr Victory Jelinčič to the Prime Minister of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Prime Minister, the fact is that the Slovenian state needs every euro. In view of the fact that there are a number of financial means at the Ministry of Defence that are rotting, browning in various warehouses, I am actually interested: How is the sale of state movable property within the government's sales system, in particular as regards the Ministry of Defence? We have, say, 2,000 rounds of.30-millimeter ammunition we don't need. It appears that we will send this to destruction, instead of selling this ammunition, because Ethiopia, for example, is interested in buying back this ammunition, which would bring the country quite a few, many millions of euros. On the other hand, we have our positions in Borovnica to destroy certain old explosives, and we do not use them; we drive them to Slovakia and pay the Slovaks. The Croats are asking to destroy about 15,000 tons for them - 15,000 tons! - explosive material that we don't want to accept. We count or count for the destruction of such material about 2 euros per kilogram. Calculate how many kilograms this is at 15,000 tons and how much money it takes. One wonders whether at the Ministry of Defence the gentlemen responsible are really willing to do something for Slovenia. Here I wonder how it is possible for Mr Bogataj to coordinate all these contacts between the Ministry or the Minister and the Government, but when we know that Mr Richtaj takes these matters very subjectively, if we say so. On the other hand, certain weapons that could bring money to a country are simply disappearing from storage. Historic pieces of weapons, which on the one hand are absolute pieces that must belong to museums, disappear. In addition, copies of Slovenian sniper rifles have disappeared, [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] produced in Sparkler, toolbox d.o.o. [[...]] On the question of where these guns are now, when the collectors could take them, Mr Gorazd Tomic said that they are still in operational use, which is a simple lie, but the guns are also no longer in the ministry or are not known where they are. I wonder: Where does this go, why doesn't it sell, why does it sell? [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] Don't these things work out? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u32	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u33	Thank you so much for asking. The sale of movable, real property of the State takes place in accordance with the Finance Act, the procedure has been in place for a long time and is initiated at the initiative of the director or institution wishing to sell such a asset. In particular, when it comes to the Ministry of Defence, many of these assets have been sold out of use in recent years. According to their data, which I will partially collect when major matters were committed in 2005, 211 non-vehicles were sold out, mainly for trucks, in 2006 60 non-cars, 66 such vehicles had already been written off in 2007 by each year, with the aim of giving or giving to units of protection and rescue. In 2005, 18 obsolete T55 tanks were also written off, which were destroyed or resold as raw materials, and in recent times a large number of infantry weapons have been removed from operational use, which was included in strategic reserves and part of this weapon was also intended for international military assistance in the context of UN and NATO operations. When it comes to exhibits or objects that may have museum value, there is a procedure where experts in the field of military history are involved, so part of these funds are then excluded either for a collection of museum artillery and tank weapons or armored weapons in Pivka, or for a collection that is to be placed in a cadaverium in Maribor when the reconstruction is completed. At the end of June this year, the Member asking this question raised a similar question on the Defence Committee. It also provided representatives of the Ministry with a list of certain types of weapons of interest, a very similar list, including registration numbers. Given that this is a longer list and details, the ministry will prepare a written reply to the Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u34	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me a written answer. I hope it will be very detailed and will also clarify the issue of those four rifles that disappeared unknown to where instead of being in the Slovenian museum. You said a large number of T55 tanks were destroyed and sold as raw materials. That's what's wrong. T55 tanks still have a fairly high price in certain countries that are not covered within the prohibited regions of the NATO Pact. And this is what hurts a man: that we rather destroy it than sell it. Infantry weapons can also be sold. There were only about 300 mortars in Shentvid, from which we could at least pay back the money we spent when the former minister bought this thing in Israel and when the benches were for desert warfare instead of for warfare in Slovenian conditions. I would really like to ask this answer, because I am also afraid that Croatia is offering us the opportunity to make a profit, and we do not want to accept this profit. Is this a general trend when it is interesting that members of the coalition also vote against having a Western European Union Assembly in Slovenia? Is it a trend towards Croatia or the Balkans? That's what I'm afraid of, and that's not what I'm for. That's why I'm saying we're gonna have to go overboard again. It was said that the Ministry of Defense would throw a whole bunch of people on the road. Actually, nothing happened. I think it would be absolutely necessary for this to happen once in a while.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u36	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u37	In fact, no further questions were asked. As for the possibility of divestment of funds that have gone into reselling for raw materials for another purpose, I do not know that. This has been studied by relevant experts, and the fact is that after the end of the Cold War, there is a great deal that all countries are destroying these funds. I doubt there's any big market for this, but as we say, we leave it to the experts.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u38	Thank you. The following question will be asked by Mr Rudolf Moge to the Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u39	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr President of the Government, Minister, Ministers, Colleagues and colleagues! Good-bye! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we welcome the fact that the situation in Owl is cleared up and that the methods that belong to modern democratic society are used in this regard, and by no means are they used only to collect political points when clearing Owl. All are aware that the amount received by the Republic of Slovenia from the arms trade is still unknown, despite the closed trade. This is confirmed by the views or reports provided so far by various governments, investigative commissions, the Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission and others. Recently, ladies and gentlemen, Matjaž Frangež's book entitled "What can you do for us" on arms trafficking to the Depala Village, in which you are quoted by Mr President as many as 235 times with your name and surname. When reading carefully, you can read from it and from the author's statement that you handed over the amount of about 28 million German marks to Minister Kacin, and the author and this book claim that the money was for 136 million German marks. In order, Mr. President of the Government, to overturn any suspicion that has disappeared unknown to a large sum of money, this is still occurring in the heads of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, I ask you: Can we expect you to look at irregularities similar to those of the Slovenian Security Intelligence Agency by setting up a special group, as well as at the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, with a view to reviewing, among other irregularities, the entire operation of the special fund, so called in the current Black Fund speech, and thus directly to answer the question, where has the money gone missing from the arms trade? At the time, the Intelligence and Security Service was the main organiser of the arms trade. For your answer, Prime Minister, I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u40	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u41	Thank you very much for that question. Apparently, some books are not sold too well, so advertising must also be done in the National Assembly. I haven't read it. I don't know how many times I've been quoted. However, I know that I have explained these things many times, including to a respected Member who led two such investigative commissions or one whole mandate, and one of them was that I had explained this for almost ten years. Anyone who had five minutes of time was dealing with it. We walked from the courts to the criminal police and investigative commissions. The result of all of this was that the report, which was handed over to my successor in 1994, was complete. In fact, Slovenia was forced to buy weapons during the period of independence and war for Slovenia. This was forced because the Slovenian territorial defence on the day the new government swore in 1990 was almost completely disarmed, at least as far as heavy weapons were concerned, and until now the role of those who could have prevented it has not been cleared because they had instruments in their hands and they have not done so. Many who then corrected this error risked a lot. They left for retirement without anyone thanking them or getting a confession. While some who have had black funds in recent times go to retirement with rich rewards, thanks, and everything possible. So much so that the Member of Parliament has used this comparison. For this period, according to the situation as they were, very precise documentation; most of you also have in the National Assembly because the Commission of Inquiry collected this. There were no black funds, black funds existed later, when she got all of it into the hands of the Liberal Democracy. It is very interesting to note that the entire documentation of these specific funds in the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency was completely destroyed in 2003. A few years ago, there was no record of this because it was destroyed. For the time being spoken of by the Member, there are hundreds of pages of documentation and a complete report, which no one has rejected so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u42	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. If I can give you back what you said about Drnovšk, your answer speaks for itself in what you said, so I don't care what I asked you, but you were giving a judgment. But, look, the unexplored arms trade has been getting an echo from beyond our borders lately. This is how they are actively investigating this issue in the future member of the European Union, our neighbour, the Republic of Croatia. If I just read, in one of the shows that talked about it, a true leader said, "Until anyone in Croatia contests the legitimacy of weapons, it is still unclear how much money has really gone to arms and how much has ended up in the pockets of war profiteers." At the same time, we all know that one of their generals went across the border with a suitcase full of diamonds, worth, as they say, about $5 million, including from this store. Croatia's findings will undoubtedly also touch our view and our still unexplored issues. But the fact is, you've been helping each other unselfishly at the time of your creation, and I think it's the same thing. However, there are still questions on both sides that require specific answers. Therefore, I ask you, Mr President of the Government: Have you initiated any initiatives with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia to close this chapter once and for all, in a nationalised way, as it is appropriate for a member of the European Union just before the first Presidency and a future member of the European Union? So, briefly: Were there any conversations or inquiries from our neighbor about this? Thank you very much for your answer in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u44	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u45	These questions are not open. They are opened by some who have apparently set themselves up for their own purpose of life, have been unsuccessful so far, and are trying again each year to make amends. I don't know what leads them to this motive. From the time Slovenia and Croatia participated, and they were forced to do so, there is documentation that does not leave open questions. As has already been said, in 1994 a complete report was made, in 2007 the report has the same status, is a state secret, there is where it must exist, no one rejected it. The Commission of Inquiry, led by the honourable Member, took note of this and did not propose any amendments to this document. People in the neighboring country who were then in responsible places also wrote their memories. Like General Špegel, where he presented documents from this time which confirm what is also recorded in the report by Slovenia. Allegations that we all know what a Croatian general carried across the border, I'm sorry, I don't know. [[...]] If you've been there and you know it, then you know how formal these things are to be arranged. It is possible to generalise certain matters and then make arguments, but it is not very credible. On the last visit by Croatian President Mesic in Slovenia to all parliamentary groups, this was somewhere towards the end of the previous term, one of the members of the then coalition asked Mr Mesic a similar question. The Croatian President said that there were no open questions in this regard between the countries and that Croatia would be eternally grateful for the help of Slovenia at that time.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u46	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, I thank you. That last answer was true, and you really answered me on what I asked. But the first one was not like that, and I think that the TI answers instead of clear messages bring largely only the discreditation of Members, which we ask you questions and to deal with them. I think, given your - what you have told me - that there is no serious intention in the Government to clear up the matter to the end if possible before the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union. Instead, we have five investigative commissions in the National Assembly, two of them dealing with arms trafficking. One of these is also through the connection of persons who traded weapons in 1991-1993 and are now directly or directly involved in the purchase of armory 8x8. I therefore propose that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly, we hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government. [[You didn't answer my first question.]] I call on you to support my proposal and to demonstrate the confidence that you have gained from the voters and voters in the last elections and to express your readiness to talk about it and to the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia for once to pour pure wine. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u48	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Mojet to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Now the question will be asked by the Prime Minister. Franz Gniedarsich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues. Last weekend we were able to see in the media that the social partners and the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, with the presence of the Prime Minister, signed an agreement on amendments to the Labour Relations Act. This probably means that the negotiations are concluded and that we will soon receive a proposal from the Members of the National Assembly. With the satisfaction shown and expressed by the signatories to the agreement, it was also possible for the media to see estimates that these were more beautiful amendments to the law. Therefore, I ask you, Mr President of the Government: On what basis does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia believe that the draft law that it has prepared will achieve the objectives it has set for this area at the beginning of its term of office and will also enter them into a coalition agreement? I thank you very much for the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u50	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u51	Thank you so much for asking. After a tax reform was adopted in last year in a reverential assembly, the package of economic and social reforms left another difficult objective, namely to reform the labour market or to ensure greater flexibility in the labour market, while maintaining a social or at least equal level of social security. This objective has been pursued by the Government through social dialogue, which took almost two years to complete, and the end of this social dialogue is a compromise that very much preserves the objectives set at the starting point. It is true, however, that some of the solutions are slightly different because there has been coordination and, ultimately, a compromise signed by the absolute majority of unions and also employers' organisations. So it's not about beauty repairs, it's about real change, on the one hand, it's about actually increasing the flexibility of the labour market, and on the other hand, it's about increasing social security, especially some categories of employees. Slovenia has a market economy. In the market economy, there are always ways to find sidelines to resolve any issues if the main ones do not exist. One of the side exits to solve the problems of the hard labour market was employment for a certain period of time. This employment has increased enormously over the last period because employers did not want to get the workforce or workers, which would then, even if they turned out not to be good or not appropriate, constitute an excessive cost in the final balance sheets. This is not about imputing any bad intentions, it is how the market economy works and it is the country that has to regulate the conditions so that there are rules of fair play. So, because of the search for side exits, the category of those who got new jobs and were employed for a certain period of time grew, it was mainly for young people. In view of the fact that they were employed for a certain period of time, they were difficult to obtain or could not obtain loans and many other things that were related to permanent employment. This made it difficult to solve housing problems and so on. In fact, this labour market ultimately sought certain categories of workers, especially young workers, more than employers, and this did no good to anyone. That is why there has also been a slowdown on both sides, including on the part of trade unions, and compromises that will now, once the law is passed, allow us to: to get a more flexible labour market in this segment when it comes to work for an indefinite time; greater flexibility when it comes to the issue of overtime, which in this case is a major problem in the current situation of labour shortage in most sectors. We have a limited number, an upper number of overtime, which is significantly lower. This limit is significantly lower than European criteria. And workers, even if they want to, can no longer do overtime or it is a crime. Now that limit has been lifted. We went to Europe - the agreement was not accepted, or compromise was not accepted to the highest limit, but slightly below it, but with the consent of both employers and workers. [[...]] Many other things have been arranged that have survived in marriage. In the short term, you can expect a new law on labour relations or changes in the law that are a compromise, but affect or improve both ways: greater social security, especially the categories of younger employees, and, on the other hand, greater flexibility of work.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you. I thank the President of the Government for the answers to the questions raised by the Members. At the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, Mr Aleš Gulič asked the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology of the Ministry of Education, Dr Juret Zupan about the Minister's dialogue with students when adopting legislation on higher education. Since the Minister was not present, the Member requested an oral reply to the next meeting of the assembly. I therefore give the Minister the floor to answer his question. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. President! First of all, I would like to apologize to Mr Gulic for not being able to give an answer at the last meeting because I was officially absent. I'm giving an answer today. The question was: How does the Minister present a dialogue with students when adopting legislation? It must be said that dialogue was perfectly normal. On 15 April, we sent all staff members a draft marked "internal", with the desire to explain it first and then to receive comments. My students and I had not only one, but two meetings where they explained. They promised to make comments. We talked to exactly all partners, i.e. unions, with Koris, with universities, and then not - at our request, but at the request of students who said they would not talk - the dialogue ended. But now the dialogue is back in place and we are talking. A group has been established and we are talking again, the first meeting has already been held and the next meeting is scheduled for the end of July. That's the first part of the answer. So, we want to talk all the time, we're not the ones who want to end the conversation in any way. The second part of the question is more complicated. The honourable Member asks whether I will require inter-resort coordination to retrogard the verbal delinquency. I must admit that I didn't understand it at first, but then, when I read the tape, it became clear that it was a resolution of the Autonomous Tribunal of Students who said they wanted to give me an opinion. As is commonplace, I must say that I have kept this agenda or this way of communicating with everyone when I come to the Ministry, that anyone who wants to communicate with the Minister should announce and then set a date. No SOS and the Autonomous Tribune have ever announced any kind of conversation. But we found out from work that they had entered the lobby of our building. It must be said that we are not the owners of the building, that we are also with some tenants in the property owned by the Hypo Bank and that it is also a door service from the Hypo Bank. So we're the tenants of this building. When the students arrived, according to the security guard, they put posters on the lobby. The place for postering is all over the place; in private buildings, postering is not allowed. Since the security guard then called the police because he felt threatened, that's his personal opinion. He's not at our job, no one from our ministry has been informed, no one knows that the students are in the building. The police have been called by a security guard and allow him to have his judgment on when he feels threatened. Then the police came and acted as was appropriate. I believe that every owner has the right to require that from the one who was postering after his building. So, I think the honourable Member, too, would like to see it removed in his room. So much for that. And all we've learned is from the police record that the police have given us, and I have to reiterate this: we only found out later because no one, not students, or the Autonomous Tribune, has ever announced for talks or that they will come. We just didn't know that because we're tenants from the second floor. What happened on the ground floor wasn't under our control, and it was just a security report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u54	Thank you. We are moving on to the first round of questions from Members of Parliament and Members. Mrs Breda Pečan will ask the Minister of Education and Sport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ministers and ministers. The principle of free movement of people in the European Union and the need to employ workers from outside the European Union have also led to increased immigration of children brought along by the workers mentioned above. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 10 of the Basic School Act, compulsory children have the right to education under the same conditions - i.e. those school children - as citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It's all good and it's all good. However, the problem arises when children who do not master a word of Slovenian or Italian or Hungarian and, in accordance with the current law until 7th grade due to disagreement between parents, despite the annual total negative schooling success, progress from class to class. In the end, their knowledge in the 7th grade often does not even reach the 2nd grade of primary school. The additional problem is that even their parents do not master the words of at least one of our official languages, and they need a translator so that they can learn at parental meetings or speaking hours at least the most basic conditions and rules that apply in our school system. By the way, the mother tongues of these children are from Romanian, Albanian from Albania, Albanian from Kosovo, Russian to Bulgarian and Ukrainian. In short, then, languages that no one is able to speak with us are practically unknown. Principals or principals of individual primary schools, in which this issue is particularly present - for example, at the Primary School in Nova Gorica there are 35 children without any knowledge of Slovenian, one primary school in Isola of 17 children in the 7th grade who do not speak Slovenian and will most likely all repeat classes - have repeatedly warned the Ministry of Education and Sport that an intensive Slovenian course should be carried out before the children are enrolled in school so that they and the owners will be able to follow the class normally. The answer was easy and draconian at the same time. Rate them according to their knowledge. And the dot! Of course, knowledge was nothing, and the consequences are here. For this reason, I would like to ask you: How do you view the implementation and financing of specific Slovenian courses before the start of the education for children of foreigners involved in primary education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u56	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u57	Dear Mr President, honourable Member! Thank you so much for asking. For a short time, I could say that I view this problem as you do. Migrant children - and in view of migration trends and flows, this issue will also be increasingly present not only in Slovenia, but also in other countries across Europe and around the world - gain an equal position with children in all modern school systems, such as parents, nationals of one country, i.e. as domestic children. The only directive that is binding, for example, for the members of the European Union in the field of education is the one that deals with this issue. We have in the past in recent years changed or amended quite a few laws that place these children in an equal position. This issue, which you are referring to, is an additional, special problem that requires the special treatment of these children. The Basic School Act now makes it possible to learn this language and the novel we are proposing enables exactly what you are proposing, this is the organisation of special courses for these children. It seems to us that this form of special intensive courses is a better form than previous practice when we financed special hours, individual hours for these children. Given the multitude and growing need, it seems to me that this form, such a special course that you yourself mention, is most appropriate. But the only problem is whether we can start with these forms before, as you ask, children get into primary school. If they are integrated into preschool education, then there are no major problems here. The problem is where these migrant children are not included in preschool education and do not come into contact with Slovenian language, and here is the problem with their inclusion. However, we will consider, in addition to what we offer, such options, especially for those children who are not included in preschool education.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u58	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u59	Mr. Secretary, I guess we didn't get along. I thought that before entering the classroom, whether it was a preschool kid or a first grade or going to school somewhere in the middle of what I know, in the second, third, fourth grade. It is said that before he begins to attend a class with his peers, he goes through an intensive course, not just in the school year, when, of course, he would miss a whole lot of time again. But another thing I am interested in, and I think this will be of particular interest to the mayors of individual municipalities, who have many of these cases; that is, it is written in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Basic School Act to organise a Slovenian course. But the question is now: Will this be part of the funding obligation of the Ministry of Education and Sport, or will it have to finance municipalities as a default? The biggest problem now was that schools did not have a source to finance Slovenian language courses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u60	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u61	In the Ministry of Education, we advocate that, even now, when we are preparing provincial legislation, some rights or special rights of minorities or other ethnic groups requiring special treatment will be protected by the State, so that they will be protected by the State and will not be left to the founders at a lower level. Now that we have prepared this new approach to learning Slovenian - we will also follow the same principle for these children.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u62	Thank you. Mr. Borut Saiovic, I ask because the Minister of Finance is absent. or you want to ask a question anyway. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We listened to stories about record economic growth in Slovenia in the media and reports this year. Last week, I hope that at least a little bit of knowledge and statistics on inflation put us on the ground. The government service investigating these macroeconomic analyses, UMAR, has informed us that inflation in last year or this June amounted to about 3.6% on an annual basis, no doubt a sign of sober thinking and an alarm. That is why to Minister Andre Bajuk, who is in Brussels today, I am sure that he will be reminded of our story there too, because with this new one we have waved our hand, in fact, because it is nothing; but there is no doubt that the story is worrying, because in Slovenia there is 3.6% inflation and in other euro area countries only 2%. Why are we so worried about this inflation? First, because there is no doubt that inflation has a major impact on the lives of those layers of people who live the hardest and have the lowest income. For someone who has EUR 378 guaranteed wages or a guaranteed pension, record economic growth has absolutely nothing to do with a better life, and on the other hand, 3.6% of the incentives for basic consumer goods still have a bearing on his choice of what he will choose in the basket of emergency items in trade. This should undoubtedly be a concern - and I hope that it will in the future - of our Minister of Finance. One of the excuses was to fertilize oil and also to fertilize food. All of this is being exasperated elsewhere in Europe and around the world, but elsewhere they do not have such inflation. I think that the Ministry of Finance, together with the Bank of Slovenia, must make certain moves that affect supply, demand; actions that affect consumption. Above all, the state must do what is expected of citizens at such times: to tighten the belt, to reduce the costs that are not necessary, not to resort to additional debt at times of record economic growth, but to manage the maximum of what we have and not to live beyond our means. See, even in most Slovenian banks interest on euro deposits is moving somewhere between 3.2% and 4% of the point. If [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Inflation is 3.6% and if you are among those who pay 20% of the income advance from the country, then from this title means that your property is worth less every day. [[...]] And that's what I'm worried about. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u64	Thank you. Mr Bojan Rugelj will ask the Minister of Health a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the ministers, Minister! Dear Minister Bručan, in Slovenia the total number of sick days in 2005 was 404 thousand and in 2006 10 million and 40 thousand, which means that you were able to reduce the number of hospital stocks by about 4%. Even more significantly, the number of cases decreased, which shows that the reduction was not at the expense of patients and this is also the most important. The number of sick days in the burden of employers fell from 5 million 915 thousand to 5 million 537 thousand, a decrease of 6.4%. This is undoubtedly a great success that must not be overlooked, and it is right to commend them, because this has significantly reduced costs for both the economy and the health insurance company. Unfortunately, there are still individual cases that cause quite bad will in both patients and employers. I am thinking of cases of hospital stock that are supposed to last more than 30 working days. What's going on in practice? In such cases, the hospital stock is decided by designated doctors by a health insurance company who are far less generous to patients than their personal physicians who decide on the hospital stock for up to 30 days. Thus, doctors called by a health insurance company often cause a lot of distress both in patients and in employers, because when the stock is broken, the patient gets a hospital from a personal doctor for 30 days and the costs go to the employer, even though it would be logical and correct for a health insurance company to cover these costs. Although it may be possible to appeal to a healthcare commission, this complaint is rarely settled because this three-member commission is also appointed by a health insurance company. Thus, in 2006, approximately 60 appointed doctors issued 253.270 decisions concerning the duration of the hospital for more than 30 days, of which about 20 to 30% are negative. Unfortunately, I was unable to obtain official information. However, the Second Level Health Commission has dealt with 4,559 cases of complaints and has only settled complaints in 14.6% of cases. All of this data shows that the criteria of doctors appointed by a health insurance company, their healthcare commission, are much stricter than the criteria of personal physicians and specialists. The reason for this is logical, but it's a matter of who's carrying the costs of the hospital stock. I'm asking you: Is it possible that at least this committee would be II? Levels made up more neutrally, [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] one doctor proposed by a health insurance company and one interested association by the Chamber of Commerce and Economics? I believe that so many critical cases would then be dealt with differently and even more fairly, so [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u66	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u67	Good-bye! Dear Mr. President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I would like to thank you for this issue, which actually opens up a large area, which has already been addressed by the Government or the Ministry of Health, through amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act. The problem of abstention is an area that is very tender and also very sensitive. Let me also say immediately that the situation in Slovenia is quite different in this area. It is important, however, that we are aware that this is a matter of striking a balance between certain abilities, on the one hand, and the requirements of the employer on the other. It is very important that there is still some thought in our consciousness that work is not a value. It is necessary to slowly and consistently change our thinking towards work of value and to build on it and also belonging, or, if you wish, loyalty to your organization. Of course, this means that the work organisation will also have to change its attitude towards its workers in many ways. And the reasons for the hospital stock are very different: with those completely clear and timelessly defined to those that are unnecessary, however, they are present in our space. First of all, let me point out that there's a lot too much stock due to injuries at work. A lot more responsibility should also be taken by an individual in the event of injuries outside the workplace. It seems incomprehensible that now every risky pregnancy and, as such, requires a long - term hospital. However, the huge and particularly long-term hospital stock is due to conflicts in the workplace, which may result in mental imbalances for the employee and hospitalisation. Here is mainly the focus of mistrust of yourself, loss of motivation, depression and so on. However, when reacting to employees, it can also be reversed, self-sustainment, anger, resentment and the like. When looking for the truth in these cases, doctors have a lot of problems - or doctors have a lot of problems - despite good professional practice. And I could also mention the reasons for a long-term hospital like, say, accident insurance and so on. It will be necessary to increase the role of medicine in particular and to establish its independence from employers. We have also just had a consultation on this subject in the cooperation of experts. Finally, effective supervision of the professional work of all those involved in health care needs to be established. I must say that your concerns about this Commission are, in fact, partly or possibly entirely justified. It should be pointed out that at the Ministry of Health, immediately after the start of the mandate in early 2005, we have been very active in addressing the open issues of abstention, which were highlighted in the 15-year application of the current Health and Health Insurance Act, and we have also achieved encouraging success with the insurance company, which you mention among other things. At the same time, we have opened up current questions in existing legislation, the amount of compensation, then the procedures for identification in selected doctors and health insurance, the conduct of insured persons in the absence of work and the role or cooperation of experts to assess the conditions and criteria for determining incapacity for their work in cases of illness and injury to insured persons. Here I can see that, in negotiations with the social partners, both trade unions and employers, we have achieved significant additions to the proposal for a new Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, both in speeding up the procedures in case of longer hospital absences, greater responsibility and sanctions for insured persons due to unjustified hospital absences. Experts from medicine will also be involved in ensuring the conditions and criteria for absence from work, which is in fact a modified implementation of your proposal regarding the involvement of doctors in the healthcare commission. Now, of course, as a doctor, I can say that such representation by employers as you suggest could make sense, but it could also mean a lack of confidence in the professional work of doctors who must respect the professional criteria. But given what I've just said, we can rediscover something that we can even worry about. According to the latest available data of the Health Insurance Office for this year's first quarter, hospital absences again increase over one year. It is therefore necessary to provide additional funding in the programmes. But what you are proposing to this committee is that we also appoint doctors from employers, and we will examine and think that there are some possibilities that such a presence can actually be ensured in the insurance company and in this committee in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u68	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I'm mostly happy with the answer, if that's true. I do not think that this Commission is such a large number of cases at the second level dealing with 4,500 cases. I'm sorry, but I was disturbed by this result that only 14.6% was approved, and it's positive, but everything else is negative. Thus, the Commission’s size would not change by placing one doctor on the Health Insurance Board and one on the employer’s side. I don't think there'd be a drop in confidence in any of the doctors. However, I believe that such a solution would increase confidence both in patients and in employers. That's why I'm so glad you're ready to support this idea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u70	Thank you. Can I help you, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u71	Thank you. I'd still say two or three more sentences about that. In fact, this is a problem that is more or less clear to us. It is that, in this way, in some artificial way - or sometimes artificial way - employers are paid by a hospital, which should have already been paid by a health insurance company and this disproportionate is felt on the one hand by all those involved in this process, both by employers and by patients and by insurance companies, who have not yet found an option, and it is not possible for them to actually act on this secondary committee together with a representative of employers. I think that there are actually some options for this, partly about this point, we also talked to the insurance director about this direction, this should be the starting point for further discussions. However, I think that this area of abstention in Slovenia is so problematic that, since the beginning of this mandate as such, we have been trying to arrange it on some points, including the amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act, we have also found a common language with the social partners, and that we will also find additional opportunities to implement your proposals at this point, which is somewhat more relevant to employers now.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u72	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potrat will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u73	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, esteemed colleague and colleague. Madam Minister, you are famous as a person who can listen to social partners, so I have decided to address the question to you because another ministry, which is very much concerned, is the Ministry of Education and Sport, following a study by a non-governmental organisation, the dialogue with the non-governmental sector is not exactly open. Recently, in early June, the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions addressed to you as President-in-Office of the Economic and Social Council the requirement that you also include a new law on the organisation and financing of education and education on the agenda of the Council. They considered the proposed school reform to be such that it would affect the lives of the vast majority of citizens and citizens. And since the consequences of the amendments to this law, even before the government hearing, would be good to know the Economic and Social Council, you were expected to be placed on the agenda, and you replied that the proposed changes in the field of education and education did not affect the fundamental areas of action of the Economic and Social Council, as defined by the rules of operation of this Council, and that the inclusion of the law under consideration in the Economic and Social Council would also mean a change to the current established practice. Well, in a letter that I will not literally quote, you also wrote down that you are proposing to the Minister of Education, Dr. Milan Beast, to meet with interested members of the Economic and Social Council. This meeting was indeed held on June 16th, but the government decided on the law and adopted the text on June 14th, that is to say before the discussion took place. I went to see for myself what the rules of action of the Economic and Social Council say and found at least five indents, according to which it would be normal for the Economic and Social Council to also consider amendments to the legislation. I therefore ask you, Madam Minister, why did you not include in the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education on the Economic and Social Council? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Member, honourable Members! As currently President-in-Office of the Economic and Social Council, as you have already stated, on 4 June I received the initiative of the President of the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions to submit to the Economic and Social Council, to include the consideration of the proposals for two educational laws, namely the Basic School Act and the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. This was a date, on 4 June, when the Economic and Social Council was already meeting, and their letter informed the social partners about changes in the organisation and financing of education and education in our country. That is why, because we respect social dialogue in the Government and we are aware that it is crucial in the process of adopting and amending legislation, I agreed with the proposal of Minister Beast to convene a meeting and to present both laws to all social partners at a joint meeting. A joint meeting was convened and all members of the Economic and Social Council were invited. This meeting was primarily called for the members of the Economic and Social Council to take note of the proposal of both laws, to review all comments adopted and to take account of them, and to receive all answers to any questions raised by both laws. After the meeting, I also accepted the minutes that not all members of the Economic and Social Council attended the meeting, but only two representatives, namely the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the representative of the Pergam Trade Union. In view of the fact that the Economic and Social Council brings together as many as 15 representatives of both the labour and trade union parties - the seven employers' 8 - we have concluded that such a topic for members of the Economic and Social Council does not matter much, but the representatives of the Confederation of Trade Unions have re-emphasized the call for the Economic and Social Council and I have concluded that there has not been an agreement that there has not been an agreement that there has also been a meeting and I believe that open issues are urgently needed to be addressed, because, on the second and third initiatives, they also referred to the social issue or the very regulation of the employment situation in education, I have decided to re-initiate the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions to deal with both laws at the Economic and Social Council meeting before the second hearing in the National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u76	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Sadly, however, experience shows that from the first examination to the second law, there are usually no fundamental conceptual changes. And the legislation that we are going to consider is such a nature that it interferes with the concept, because it is a matter of which education we give priority to. When I spoke about the fact that the rules of action of the Economic and Social Council in Article 2 interfere with employment and labour relations, collective bargaining system, legal security, workers' co-ordination and trade union rights and freedoms, you may have observed in public, with me, that there have been several cases of violations, or misunderstandings, or failure to resolve problems that could be discussed; from the way in which the Ministry of Education and Sport views the role of trade unions, to the extent that their legal security is felt by employees in primary school - the law does not propose that even the suspension of extended stay in the sixth grade - but they are already employed as a result of the security of their jobs, their ability to co-operate in school councils is reduced because some things are proposed to be, and they may not be, in view of how their role will also be interpreted by teachers; This is said to be a very large number of these problems affecting labour rights, labour legislation, and I am glad that you will organise this conversation, but unfortunately I think it is already a little late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u78	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u79	As I said before, the first requirement was only to learn about changes in both laws. And because we received this request on 4 June and on 4 June the Economic and Social Council on 4 June, I proposed, in cooperation with the Minister of the Beast, and also agreed that both laws should be presented to all the social partners at this meeting. And it seems a little strange to me that the members of the Economic and Social Council did not attend this meeting to be presented to them because, at the first request, it was only a request for information or a notification of the news of this law. Because we wanted members of the Economic and Social Council to know each other as soon as possible, this meeting was proposed, which was unfortunately attended by only two members. We will therefore consider this in the autumn before the second hearing in the Economic and Social Council, because two more proposals have come from the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions, which require wider consideration, which will be addressed in the Economic and Social Council before the second hearing.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u80	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u81	Thank you. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a general discussion on the response of the Minister of Labour. I apologize to you, Madam Minister, for this proposal of mine, because you have answered me with what you have been able to answer. But what I propose to discuss about your answer is the next reason. For the second time, the Ministry of Education and Sport has sent a circular to primary schools and other schools where a desire for rationalisation and greater financial efficiency can be traced. However, the instructions given by the Ministry run counter to what the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has put forward in the field of labour law and family care: equal integration of women into the labour market, the allocation of family responsibilities, the care that parents could have children in quality pre-school education institutions and in extended school stays, according to the changed, flexible working hours, it seems to me that these things are - and finally, I have asked your predecessor about this once before, when the Ministry of Education and Sport has narrowed down the possibilities for replacement employment to replace work on maternity or parental leave or sick leave. Because I don't think it's possible to deal with hard statistics here and count how many places there are in the whole country and where anything can be done, the Minister has to give permission for each replacement job. It is said that the provisions of this Ministry go against those provisions and the guidelines that you are defending. And I would like this to be discussed in the National Assembly. I do not know what you are discussing in the context of inter-departmental coordination in ministries, but it would be interesting for Members and Members to hear how some of the open issues - which, I stress - are also involved in increasing or stimulating certain movements related to demographic policy in order to be worth discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u82	Thank you. On the proposal of the Ambassador mag. They believe that the National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to her question of the mission, and the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Now Dr Mitja Slavinec will ask the Minister of Education and Sport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Minister, at the 27th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly, in response to my question, you have stated that you are a supporter of the public education network and that concern for the public network is not the only concern of the competent ministry, although it is given the highest priority. Now that we have a proposal for a law, I ask you: with what concrete measures in the envisaged school reform do you take care of the quality and equal situation of public schools and kindergartens? Does this include 100% of the financing of private education that you are introducing in the proposal of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education? Last but not least: Why didn't you decide, if you already wanted to simplify funding, for 85% of the funding of all private schools, as last but not least in music schools? How do you care for an even higher quality of education with all these measures, which has also been exposed to the fact that the reform is primarily aimed at raising the quality of education? Finally, 13 NGOs among them, a group of directors, a student organisation, a student organisation, in a letter to public education, have reminded you of many of these things that I am talking about now. And then it also sent the Members a request to ask you which of the proposed changes will increase the quality of public schools and kindergartens. Here I can quote: Is this the direction of sharpening standards for systematizing a consultant, librarian, accountant, office reference, cook, janitor and janitor? Will the quality of public education also increase the standards for the number of students in teaching groups? Normatives for [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] Systematization of the guardian and so on. [[...]] I fear that all of this does not contribute to the improvement of quality, but on the contrary - that all of this will worsen the quality of public schools and kindergartens. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u84	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr Member, thank you very much for the question that you have also addressed to me. Indeed, at the time I said that my main concern for public school is, but this is mainly because practically private education in Slovenia is extremely small. We are, by number of private schools and by number of students or participants, at the very bottom of Europe and also at the tail of the OECD countries. This means far to the bottom, not to share the last place, but Slovenia, for example, is after the share of private schools in primary education and education with 0.13% far in the last place. In short, we have some structure that is not comparable to Europe - but this is not even the most important right now. More importantly, the various human rights declarations speak of children and parents having the right to learn, also on the basis of specific teaching principles. And this right is also guaranteed by the Slovenian Constitution and no one in this country has the right to discriminate against these children and also teachers working in these institutions. And the current system was discriminatory, 15% lower funding could mean that the country pays less attention to the quality of such schools. However, even when we finance a 100% program, it does not mean that we finance 100% of all services or the cost of a private school. As you know, the state does not finance investments, nor investment maintenance, nor equipment; in short, a good part of the costs associated with education and education. And this is what the founder introduces into the school system, into the school space, and we can be grateful for this contribution. This is actually the contribution of private founders to school space, otherwise the state should co-finance; and this share is not small. Some calculations say that the 100% funding of the programmes is only to cover 70% of the costs incurred by such school founders. This means that if more private education occurs in Slovenia, civil society will contribute or materially enrich the Slovenian school. In short, I would like to say that the public school already has a priority position in advance, particularly with a higher share of school funding. I believe, and this is also a trend in Europe and the world that private schools, in particular the programme, are increasingly being financed from public funds. It also seems to me that, also in order to ensure greater accessibility for all, including private schools. We wanted 100% funding and a ban on school fees to ensure equal accessibility. This means that in the field of private education there would not be an elite school for rich people, but we have ensured that all children are made accessible. The key issue or principle is non-discrimination, which has occurred in practice, I hope that we will also be able to convince you, who may still have doubts that this decision is not the most acceptable and rational one tomorrow. Students attending these schools, as well as teachers working in these schools, also have the same rights as those attending public school in the public network by law and by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u86	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Slavinec.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that. From your answer, Your Honored Minister, I was able to understand in particular what I was most concerned about. So the reform is not intended to raise the quality of public education, but to harmonise it through your inappropriate structure; therefore, to enable the development of private education through reform. But we can see that private education basically means the development of Catholic education. We saw a few days ago that the first Catholic nine-year-old was coming, and when you talked about tuition, we were able to find out at the press conference that there would be no tuition, but there would be a fund with charitable contributions, which would then additionally finance this education - that is, completely following the pattern of the Church's operation. And here we have also seen that we can expect a change of subject, for example, religious education is supposed to replace civic education and ethics. Of course, this ministry is problematic, it seems controversial, and on the other hand, the fact that there will be no science and technology is not disputed. In the sense of this "Find a God in every man" as was the message of the first Catholic nine-year-old, we would then establish a private school in Prekmurje where instead of civic education we would have prekmurc education and find Prekmurc in each Prekmurc. I think it is wrong that such development is not true and that there is still a need to take care of the development of public education - not at the expense of private education. I don't mind private education, I don't mind Catholic schools, but not at the expense of public schools.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u89	Once again, private schools will not develop at the expense of public schools, but on the contrary; in Slovenia they bring a lot of material resources and both finance and space, equipment and the like, which is in favour of Slovenian schools at all. As for the quality of the ZOFI, this novel, especially for the development and monitoring of quality; both internal - as you can read or will hear tomorrow when presenting the novel of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, we introduce an internal control system, self-evaluation, so that all kindergartens, schools, in short, all institutions, regularly represent their self-evaluations - as well as the knowledge of the form of evaluation for which they acquire, or in this regard, the Council for Evaluation at national level obtains special competence and care. So this novel that we're talking about, it's all about evaluation and quality. It is not so much at the forefront of the development of private education, which we have dealt with in 90 years, but precisely quality, internal evaluation, external evaluation - allowing private schools to be able also in the field of vocational education, which have been excluded for unreasonable reasons in the 1990s, the possibility of setting up centres, as well as establishing education or setting minimum standards for education. These are the key innovations brought by the ZOFI, not this elimination of, say, inconsistencies, but that some schools are funding 100% and three schools are 85%. And now we are overcoming this difference that these three schools will also get a little bit more, which is less than 300,000 euros per year, which is a negligible amount compared to a billion and 180 million euros. These funds will be met further. And once again, the financing of the program, which is formally 100%, does not in any way cover 100% of the costs for the entire performance of the service.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u90	Thank you. Mrs Maria Possonec will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! Numerous areas in Slovenia are infected with ambrosia, which is a harmful plant to health, as its pollen is one of the most powerful known allergens. It is a weed that grows on abandoned and unworked surfaces. A plant must be destroyed before blooming before it can be successfully suppressed. I wonder: Will the ministry of solving this problem also address the legal obligation to destroy this plant, or will there be any other way that people will be forced to destroy this harmful weed? The inspector says that there is no legal basis for punishing people who do not destroy these weeds on their surfaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u92	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u93	Thank you for asking. According to the phytosanitary administration, pelinophilic ambrosia or [[Ambrosia artemisifolia]] becomes actually one of the most important weed species in agricultural production, and as you yourself have found, it also causes inhalation allergies. As a result, in Europe, agriculture is mainly concerned with the consequences or representation of this plant and its flower dust for health. With us, this ambrosia has only been spreading in recent years. In Slovenia, in fact, it spreads the fastest on non-agricultural, poorly-maintained land, from which it spreads to agricultural land. In particular, more precise systematic lists of the areas where it occurs have not yet been made for us, but we are now in the stage of the professional production of the study, which would define in which the University of Maribor and the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia participate. In most European countries, this plant is quite widespread. However, it is only in Russia, Belarus and Ukraine on the quarantine list, and they officially wish or intend to act swiftly against it in Poland and Lithuania. In these two countries, they have also prepared a risk assessment of the spread of this plant, which is now being studied by the European Food Safety Agency EPSA and where some guidance can also be adopted at European level. The European and Mediterranean plant protection organisation EPO has placed this plant on the list of foreign invasive plants to be considered in accordance with the Plant Protection Conventions and the Convention on Biological Diversity. The Ministry of Environment and Space is preparing a strategy for foreign invasive plants. In order to limit the spread of these plants, retention programmes may be adopted in accordance with both Conventions. And in Slovenia, the main containment program could briefly be marked with a password to edit the landscape, meaning mainly non-agricultural surfaces. In agricultural areas that are processed, the presence of this plant is largely not a problem but can become problematic on the surfaces of organic farming if the seed is under great pressure in the future. In order to implement the initiative for official action against this plant, we believe that the powers of the three public sectors should be pooled: health, environmental and agricultural. We should wait for this study to be carried out and then possibly, on the basis of developments in the European Food Safety Authority, prepare measures for Slovenia. However, I stress that this is not the main issue which would be the responsibility of our department, but we can give an initiative in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr Sašo Pece will ask the Minister of Economy a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u95	Your Honors are here! Mr Minister, you are under the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which unfortunately has all the powers within our country, also authorised in the field of electricity. A while ago, I asked you about a partial electricity producer, namely the Drava power plants Maribor, where, of course, a time ago, the Director-General was replaced for absolutely innocuous reasons, that was Mr Danilo Šef. You have placed there, according to your assessment of an extremely capable individual named Kolečnik, who is known primarily for allowing and inventing different means of transport, regardless of how long he has been in an individual position. And these positions have been quite a bit in the last period since you started sneezing in this country. But this time I'd be asking you about the nuke. The nuclear power plant is one of those institutions, even said, which produces a little more than 40% of electricity. And this electricity has its way, distribution routes, sales routes. You've set up an energy department within your office led by Dr. Igor Solomon. On your proposal, Mr Vizjak, on your proposal, has also been appointed as a member of the Management Board of the NEK Fund at the beginning of this year and not later than last year as a member of the Management Board of the Agency for Radioactive Waste. But what is interesting about all of this is that Mr Igor Solomon, who undoubtedly has a lot of fingers in the sale of electricity, is to say, among other things, that during this year, it has been radically emphasized that the member or Chairman of the Supervisory Board, the so-called Istrabenz Gorenje, is also an energy company. Istrabenz Gorenje energy systems is a company in which the former Secretary of State, Mr Rado Golob, has a 0.1% share. And your director of the Directorate is the President of the Supervisory Board. From this title, of course, I wonder: How can someone with a 0.1% stake held by Mr Golob in this company have a right to up to 10% of the profit on the basis of a social contract, that means 100 times more and, most importantly, the fact that he even has a fixed margin regardless of the price. Mr Vizjak, me and probably everyone else, we know that this is one of the school cases of public money being poured into private hands. That's why I'm asking you, because the Ministry of the Economy [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] is an energy carrier: How is it that if you have a director of the Directorate in such an important area as the President of the Supervisory Board in that firm, you do not do [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u96	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u97	Dear Member, explain something first. The State or the Ministry of Economy and the Energy Directorate have nothing to do with Istrabenz Gorenje. In my opinion, this is a completely private company, but it is true that the state is the founder of Gen Energy, this is the company that is the holder of ownership, the half-ownership of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. This company has electricity produced from this company, says Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The gene energy was created as the second energy pillar for several reasons. A very important reason is to introduce or establish competition on the wholesale electricity market. In the past, until the establishment of this entity there was virtually no competition, 79% of the availability of all energy was in the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant. That is why we have also established and established an electricity market in line with the recommendations of the European Community. An important measure was the establishment of Gen Energy. Gene Energy is a growing company and has established Gene I as a subsidiary for electricity marketing and this subsidiary Gen-I has marketed some of the electricity produced by the Nuclear Power Plant. In 2006 only slightly more than 15%, in 2007 this will be around 28%. Gen-I, whose co-founder is Gen-Energy 50%, and the other 50% of the private company you mention, has the following business plan: all profits generated from electricity sales remain in Gen-Energy, i.e. in a company that is 100% state-owned, manages a service of between 0.5 and 1.3 euros for sold megawatt hours of electricity. In 2006, Gen-I’s profits amounted to EUR 100 million in turnover of EUR 1.5 million, a profit that was fully used for the recapitalisation of the company, that is to say, neither was the euro paid or, in any way, intended for the profits of the shareholders, will also be earmarked for the recapitalisation and development of the company in the future. This company Gen-I was established for the development and operation of the electricity market and therefore all profits were invested back in the company in the form of recapitalisation. Mr Igor Shalamun is the President of the General Energy Supervisory Board, which is 100% state-owned.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u98	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u99	Sure. Thank you for your word. Today I have heard some funny parliamentary questions, of course this is my own assessment, but such a ridiculous, misleading answer as was given on your part this time, colleague Visjak or Mr Visjak, but it is only a little too much. As part of your ministry's service, you have the Director of the Directorate of Salamun, who participates in that area, on purpose speaking slowly, called Istrabenz-Gorenje, energy systems, where some natural person is the president of this company's administration and the owner at the level, please listen to me, 0.1%. The social contract that you agreed to within your ministry allows this person 10% of the profits, I apologize, 10% of the profits. From this title, I ask you, because this is a typical example of the transfer of state capital into private hands. This is a typical example of corruption, customerism and money laundering that happens within your ministry or under the appeal of people who run your ministry, in terms of content. From this title, I ask you once again: Would it not make sense for the Presidents of the Supervisory Committees to review such social contracts that allow some who are close to you in your ministry, the wealth or theft of the state property you are covering or defending, even you, in your reply? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Therefore, I ask for an answer in connection with Istrabenz, Gorenje, energy systems, Mr Rado Golob of 0.1%, 10% profit participation and Chairman of the Supervisory Board [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u100	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u101	Dear Member! I don't know where you got that information. I just called Mr. Igor Solomon on the phone and asked him if he had anything, if he was sitting on any supervisory board. I don't really know about these institutions, because companies have supervisory councils and administrations, or they have management. And Mr Igor Shalamun does not sit on the Istrabenz-Gorenje Supervisory Board. This is a private society, I stress once again. The Ministry of Economy has nothing to do with this society. I don't know where you come from, honourable Member, such accusations at the expense of the Ministry, at the expense of Mr Solomon, the Director-General of the Energy Directorate and at the expense of me. Once again, I wanted to explain to you the whole story of Gen Energy, which is state-owned, with Gen I, as a subsidiary of Gen-Energy, which is intended for a power supply service. And that's all the country has to do with it. Istrabenz Gorenje, respected, comes from the words who founded it: Istrabenz, Gorenje and can give another, but not under the patronage of our ministry, not with our consent and not under our control, not control. And I really don't know where that came from. At the very least, to give any consent to any social contract of this private enterprise. I would like to point out once again that the aim and interest of the Ministry of Economy is to make order, transparency and not least to establish an energy market in Slovenia in this unfortunate energy sector, where there are so many different interests. We have therefore taken a series of measures. However, I believe that many of us, with this one, also, the monopolist, I emphasize, have stepped on a blister, and I am not surprised by such reactions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u102	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u103	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that it is customary for members of the Government and the Government to have all the things that are more than obvious to deny at the most declaratory or transparent level in the National Assembly, this has happened with the recent letter from Andrijana Starina Koss, but this is already another story, of course I will exercise the right under the title of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that on this matter, which the Minister says is not true, and I say that he is not informed, as many in his field, where he is led by the Ministry by a completely different, much younger people, much less greedy people, who tend primarily to capitalise to have such a debate in the National Assembly. For the fact is that if the Minister does not know the working functions of the people who run the Ministry, let him be the agency, let him be the fund, I am glad that you did not deny it, because this Mr. Solomon is on the board of directors of the two, if he does not know that he is sitting on the supervisory board of the said company, which, once again, I stress, has a very devious or unfair social contract, from which the flow of state money into private hands is best seen. Mr Minister, you should be the first of the first, given that you are a member of the government to ensure that they do not take place in the field of energy or in your government as corrupt acts as I mentioned the case. I ask the National Assembly, in the context of the vote tomorrow, to define positively where the electricity sector will be addressed both in the light of unjustified irritations and in view of the unjustified conduct of individual power plants in Styria, as well as the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will always use the National Assembly in the previous or this term exclusively for the defence or attack of the Republic of Croatia when they are at odds. But when it comes to actual corruption within our country, and when we know that a nuclear power plant is one of those power-generating institutions that have the highest amount on the basis of the 2006 report [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] or the principal, which is, of course, unpaid over 10 billion tolars, and at the same time, the government allows such a theft of state property, that is worth discussing in this National Assembly. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u104	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Pečet to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. I give the floor to Mr Aloyz Sok, who will raise the question of the matter before the Minister for Environment and Space. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear ministers, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! My question will be brief, but I think it will be important and, of course, even more important at this time by the Minister. I'd ask him like this. In Slovenia, there are many landfills of municipal waste that have been cured in various ways in the past. Large amounts of municipal budgets have been invested in this rehabilitation, and funds have also been invested by the European Union, in particular I know from the LIFE programme. At this point, I have a feeling that Slovenia is not developing a strategy in this area towards the incineration of municipal waste. Probably not because these experiments have failed in the past. The fact remains, therefore, that these municipal waste dumps, which have been rehabilitated and where there is still room for disposal of municipal waste, will remain in place for a further period of time. However, since the services of the Ministry of Environment and Space are probably due to a high burden, somehow they do not issue environmental permits, so-called IPPC permits, and many landfills in Slovenia today are waiting for this permission, I ask you: Within what time frame and if you will even arrange these matters in this direction, the local communities that have these landfills and are owned by many of these landfills, will in the future know how to act, how to deal with or whether the deferral deadlines will be extended as predicted, or will they need to be closed as envisaged? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Sok, you have asked me two key questions. The first relates to the issue of the waste disposal strategy in the Republic of Slovenia and, in this regard, to the specific issue of deadlines for IPPC authorisations, the IPPC permit is an English short-circuit for a comprehensive environmental authorisation issued by the Environment Agency, the ARSO Republic of Slovenia. This is an autonomous body, but it works within our ministry. Since you have also asked in your writing how long it is for the competent authority to issue an environmental permit for a device that may lead to pollution of a greater extent for the landfill of unusual waste, allow me to be very specific on this issue and to summarise the regulations in force. Pursuant to the applicable waste disposal regulation, the operators of existing landfills are obliged to obtain an environmental permit in accordance with the regulation governing the types of activities and installations which may cause, as we have said, pollution of the environment of a greater magnitude by 31 October of this year at the latest. However, the applications had to be submitted by the last October of last year. The Environmental Protection Act also has a provision that the Environment Agency must decide on the issue of an environmental permit for a device after which an activity that can lead to pollution of a larger scale within six months of the date of receipt of the full application shall be carried out. This is this time frame. Allow me to answer your basic question: What is the strategy for managing municipal waste in Slovenia? Slovenia has this strategy. In accordance with the Waste Disposal Council Directive, Member States of the European Community were required to draw up a national strategy to reduce biodegradable waste within two years of the entry into force of the Directive at the latest. As Slovenia entered the European Community later, it also ratified an operational waste disposal programme in Brussels, with the aim of reducing the quantities of decommissioned biologically decommissioned waste components for the period until the end of 2008. This operational programme defines both the objectives, measures and, as you mentioned, financial resources. In accordance with the Article of the Waste Disposal Directive, the deadline for adapting existing landfills is the deadline, I stress the existing requirements of this Directive on 16 July 2009. So we have exactly two years left. Pursuant to the Waste Disposal Regulation in landfills, the operator of an existing landfill which has been authorised to operate in an environmentally sound manner until 31 October 2009 may extend its validity by 16 July 2009 at the latest, unless it is an existing landfill or part of an existing plant or part of an activity for which an environmental permit is to be obtained so that it is of greater scope and must obtain IPPC authorisation, as we have said, by the end of October of this year. However, when it comes to the construction of a new landfill, and something like that, thank God, there has already been and is in Slovenia, the administrative authority has to issue a permit, as we said, within six months when it receives its full role. In Slovenia, the regional concept of waste management is successfully implemented. Most of these have already built sorting rooms, mechanical processing facilities, storage spaces. For example, the Cero-Celje Regional Centre also has a heating or energy facility, which will use a stable as a fuel, made of waste. This is the first example in Slovenia of the thermal processing of the fractional part that remains. The amendment of the operational programme will also give rise to the construction of the missing waste thermal treatment facilities, most likely, as experts say, Slovenia will have two to three. We will also define other regional waste management centres in Slovenia, because in some regions or regions missing centres are not yet defined: Styria, Primorska, Notranjska and Gorenjska. This amendment of the programme will be foreseen or completed in October of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Complementary question, colleague Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u109	Not even a question, but I would just like to complement that the managers of existing landfills are convinced that their applications for IPPC authorisation are complete. If these roles are not complete, I would ask you, as minister, to direct your services to give precise information on what needs to be completed in these roles and then to be answered appropriately by your services. This is from this fact that we will know in the municipalities what we are in, that we will know how much financial resources need to be invested in the existing landfills of municipal waste itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for this additional question. I would like to say that we have regular meetings, in some sense IPPC colleges, as we say, and we are going through individual subsystems. The landfills are one of the most important areas of this expertise, and perhaps not enough of the number group that prepares the Environment Agency to try to issue an IPPC permit within the deadline. As I am aware, our professional services with all owners or administrators of these deposits are also in contact, and they also have regular so-called working meetings. You have also raised the issue of funding. Let me just comment on that for a second. The State shall co-finance the construction of waste management centres and also related landfills, provided, of course, the criteria set out in the specific waste management rules and also the criteria present in the operational waste management programme are met. A few more financial numbers. To this end, the country allocates approximately €9.5 million for this year and €13.7 million for 2008. The Republic of Slovenia also proposed and has already received around EUR 200 million from the Cohesion Fund for waste management in the new financial perspective. These 200 million will be available for those projects that are included in the priority list of cohesion projects - an operational programme for environmental development. As I am aware, all the remaining regional centres or regional dumps are still in this priority set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u112	Thank you, too. The following question will be asked by Member Miran Potrč, the Minister of Public Administration, who is absent. Here, you will receive an answer based on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u113	[[...]] [[microphone not turned on, low volume]] The question is that I wish I had a written answer within a month. [[...]] The question is as follows: In the last days, on the basis of the mandates so far, the Ministry of Public Administration shall decide on the appointment of chiefs and chiefs of administrative units for the next term. These are important decisions that will for a long time affect the quality of public administration, its expertise and political independence, as appointment is, even for all their subordinates, a clear indication or a guarantee of such independence and independence or an increase in political dependence in public administration. In order to remove any doubt about any bias in these procedures and designations, it is important to have clear, visible, public criteria and procedures for their appointment. It is important that the selection of all chiefs or chiefs is carried out on the same basis, where and how many differences are in the appointment procedures, and that these differences are also based on predetermined criteria. We are informed that 18 commissioners have so far been appointed for a new term without a public tender, that is, without cooperation and the opinion of the Competition Commissions and probably without clear criteria, only on the basis of the personal decision of the Minister of Public Administration. However, a public tender was held for all others. However, on the basis of standards and criteria, the Competition Commissions, appointed by the Official Council, checked the suitability of candidates and gave expert judgements to the Minister of Public Administration. On this basis, the Minister appointed nine new chiefs or chiefs, and in other cases repeated the call. The procedures, in short, were different without knowing on the basis of any criteria. I therefore ask Minister Virant: On what criteria did he decide on different procedures for the re-election of chiefs or chiefs of administrative units, especially in cases where the public contest was not held? Who designed these criteria, what is their content, and where and when have these criteria been published? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u114	Thank you, too. Of course, I will not give you options for an additional question, because there was no basic answer. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Mr Slavko Gaber has the floor, which will raise a question from the Minister for Education and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr Minister, allow me to complete the question that you have received in writing and thus give you a more complete and quality answer. The Education and Education Union has warned the public that you are denying him the right to, I quote, "freedom of expression, speech and opinion". It seems unacceptable to him that his, even in our opinion, quality comments and proposals to supplement the laws that you have sent to Parliament, and I now quote from your letter, "are a political debate that has nothing to do with educational activities", the end of the statement. The union recalls that such your qualification of his communication with membership, when it comes to regulating public education in this country, again, I quote, "mildly speaking, ridiculous". I don't know if your pressure on the union is funny or not. I don't think it is. However, I know that for the first time in Slovenia, the Minister of Education tried to limit the presentation of opinions by the union on the law, which concerns employees in public education. Since I believe, Comrade Beast, that you agree with me that even school and union workers are subject to the 44th Article of our Constitution, which states that every citizen has the right to participate directly or after elected representatives in the management of public affairs, I ask you: Will you cancel the district that you sent to all Slovenian schools and with it, at least in my opinion, politicize the public school space yourself? I believe that this will not be difficult for you to do as a gesture that will contribute to equality before the law and also to the feeling of citizens and citizens being treated equally, fairly in their country and that they are also allowed to organise their views on the proposed laws. With this, I believe their sense of patriotism will also be strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members! Dear Mr. Ambassador Dr. Gaber! Indeed, thank you also for this question, although there was a question that was in writing something completely different. If you allow me to quote him: Mr. Minister, I ask you how do you view the application of the Constitution of guaranteed rights of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and equality before the law? You used an old trick, you asked a general question, and then you specifically want something else, but I will still try to answer this particular question. If you're giving up your previous question, can I answer just that? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Then I would ask you to explain again, because there are great differences between these two issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u118	Mr. Secretary, if you'd like to respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u119	I would be happy to answer if I knew exactly what to say. But this oral question today was about the dialogue established by the Ministry of Education and Sport with the social partners. I can repeat what I have said several times that we have already established a dialogue on the two novels that we are talking about now and tomorrow already at the end of last year. That since then we have prepared more than 50 discussions on the starting points and the points for discussion and, of course, also on the dictions themselves arising from both novels. That we also visited the parliamentary groups, which means that we wanted to present both novelties in the field of politics, in the field of party policy, so not only to the professional public. That's why the union's position surprised us more. Also the last letter prepared by Mr Strukelj from SWIZ and invited some other organisations calling on Members not to support the novels, of course from different perspectives, each found an issue with which the two laws do not agree in fairly consistent novelties. About the specific district you were asking about. We have received quite a warning from the field that this kind of agitation along the corridors and among the students is not intermediate, nor should the union perform its activities in the chambers and especially during the teaching, but not among the students. And that call that was made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was only a reminder of this, even stressing the importance and right of trade unions to express their views, to try to do so as much as possible, and in no way did we, you can believe, want to deny trade unions their rights to activity. Once again, I am disappointed, despite the great efforts we have made recently, in the last few months in social dialogue, in this dialogue, in the gold of the unconstructive union. Recently, I was at one of the meetings in Berlin where we met, the so-called trio, with the social partners, and there we could see the important role played by the union, the school union at European level and also in other countries of the European Union. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] how they seek mechanisms and ways to make school in Europe as efficient as possible and as effective as the school system can be in this respect. [[...]] I just wish we had the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Complementary question, colleague gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I have asked you a very simple question, both in writing and orally: Is equality before the law in this country also applicable to the union? Is the union also subject to the text of Article 44 of the Constitution? Therefore, I repeat the question once again: Will you withdraw your circular, in which there is absolutely nothing about agitation among students, if it has indeed come to it, I condemn it, but I expect you to give me in writing evidence that it has indeed come to it. As long as this is not the case, I will not be able to believe you, because you are talking about dialogue, you are talking about coordination, but the profession does not support the solutions you bring to Parliament and as many as 13 organisations in the field of education and education, from all the management associations you can invent, through the student organisation, the student sections in particular, the unions to the association of Slovenian teachers, all of us here in Parliament are urged not to support the laws you have brought into Parliament. That is why I do not believe that you are allowing these people equality before the law, allowing them to have a serious debate on these issues and, therefore, codecision. I'm asking you: Will you fix this situation in the future? And for starters, will you withdraw the incriminating district?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u123	With that district, we protected the rights of children, students, participants in the educational process. As I have already mentioned, you are obviously not listening well, we have put a great deal of effort and energy into coordination and social dialogue. But you are well aware that this dialogue, that those who decide on this, have not allowed this dialogue to be productive and this last letter, which was sent and drafted at the SVIZ by Branimir Strukl, expresses a desire for professional matters, including the change of both laws, to become political goods, not professionally. I'm sorry, that's my point of view, and that's how I evaluate this letter and also your role in it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u124	Thank you. Comrade Slavko Gaber, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the Minister's reply be discussed. You will believe that, after what we have heard the last time, we certainly need this debate very badly. For the Minister is a victim of conspiracy, if I understand correctly, he is working tirelessly, he has invested a lot of energy, but as he was doing so, already 20,000 signatures have been collected against the solutions he has proposed, and the consensuals have obviously been made for the good of teaching if they have listened to him. His conspiracy also takes place in such a way that all the principal associations do not believe in the proposals he is preparing and will probably provide us with arguments, evidence that it is behind all of this, if I understand correctly, the Secretary of the SVIZ, Mr Struckey. That's what you just said here. Look, I suppose myself, Mr President, it will be worth listening to this debate and these arguments, especially since there is a different belief in the public. All of them are convinced that the Minister does not believe in dialogue, that he does not believe in the need to achieve solutions in this area, which is very sensitive, social arrangements. Moreover, he thinks all politicization is different from his. If he sends himself through Slovenia, after the schools of the district which go against the fundamental rights of the union, he does not think so politically, as he does not think the politicisation of education, when his party colleagues refer to the meetings of officials around the church buildings. That would be something to discuss, and I think it can be really interesting.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u126	Thank you very much. We will vote on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. The next question will be asked by counterpart Samo Bevk, Minister of Health. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u127	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Six years ago, when I first asked about measures to prevent hospital infections in health institutions in the country, I said that 1 out of every 10 patients gets an additional infection in the hospital, so today we can also ask how safe or dangerous Slovenian hospitals are because of bacterial infections. Four years ago, in literature, I observed that the consequences of hospital infections in Slovenia caused the death of between 400 and 600 people each year. Predominant studies of hospital infections at that time also showed dismal results. The most dangerous is MRSA infection, which has become resistant to virtually all antibiotics. MRSA is still a pressing problem of Slovenian hospitals today, and in particular the Clinical Centre. The condition did not normalize, and the phenomenon became commonplace. Almost half of the detected MRSE carriers acquire this bacteria in the hospital. According to experts, MRSA is still between 50% and 60% of acquired infections in hospitals. Slow action or non-action has led us to a new problem in the area of hospital infections, namely VRE, vancomycin resistant enterococ. If we walk only through the Clinical Center, there is a very common sign of "Contact isolation" on many doors. So is there literally some kind of boil in the Clinical Center? Enterococci are part of the normal human flora. In the hospital, they are most commonly carried over the hands of the staff who are contaminated when they are in contact with or in contact with the area around the patient. Enterocci survive in the environment from 7 to several months. I'm curious, Mr. Secretary: What measures are we taking in hospitals in the event of this phenomenon? Are patients in single rooms being accommodated? Do we have regular microbiological supervision of the hospital environment, and how do we check the quality of hygiene measures in hospital departments? Is there a consistent disinfection of the hospital staff’s terms as the simplest and most effective measure? First of all, I ask you, Your Honor Minister, Dr. Bručan: Do we have published information that is dangerous or safe for us regarding hospital infections and other information, such as bedfalls, bed sheets, waiting periods, hospital leave, and so on? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u128	Thank you for asking. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u129	Thank you very much for the question, Your Honor. Greetings also to the distinguished Vice-President of the National Assembly and to all Members and Members! This last part, of course, does not belong to the area of hospital infections, but as far as I can, I will answer that. As far as hospital infections are concerned, I thank you for the question and welcome the interest of the political public in important professional issues. Hospital infections are both in Slovenia and elsewhere after the developed world, on the one hand, a reflection of non-compliance with the principles of hospital hygiene and rational use of antibiotics, and on the other hand the inevitable side effect of modern, effective but often very aggressive treatments. Regardless of the latter, hospital infections should be considered a safety issue and constantly cared for. A long time ago, the National Commission for the Management of Hospital Infections was appointed, and in this mandate, I appointed, as recommended by the Council of Europe, a parallel working body which is responsible for the prudent use of antimicrobials, the use of which is directly linked to the development of hospital infections with resistant bacteria. Recommendations for the management of hospital infections, patients and experts have been published on the Ministry of Health’s website. The recommendation was prepared by the above-mentioned Commission. The Commission's website for the prudent use of antibiotics, which includes the use of antimicrobials in all Slovenian hospitals, and will also include data on bacterial resistance in the future, is still in preparation and is currently only available to experts. Careful monitoring of hospital infections requires a project approach and is a very difficult job for staff and finance. A study in the past of hospital infections in all Slovenian hospitals was carried out a few years ago, the results were comparable to European ones, which was already in 2001. Otherwise, in Slovenia we monitor hospital infections indirectly, usually by monitoring antibiotic resistance in some bacteria. In doing so, we have achieved a very important shift in Slovenia in recent years, which is an example to other European countries, so that your findings in some situation, which is alarming, bad and significantly worse than elsewhere in the world - I do not know where you got them - there are other data in any way. The proportion of bacteria in staphyloccus aureus, which is resistant to methylin, as we know, decreased by more than half from 2000 to last year. Slovenia is therefore among the 32 European countries that collect data on MRSI in the single system, in addition to France, the only country that has achieved improvement. So that I think there are no major crises, but of course everything in this area needs to be done to make the situation even better. At the same time, the reduction and frequency of MRSE in Slovenia is significantly more pronounced than in France. It should also be noted that there has been an improvement despite the problem we have in Slovenia, which is not present in other countries of the European Union, or not in Europe, or in most countries, that is the lack of doctors and nurses and even in the face of unaltered spatial conditions. And these good results are an incentive for all Slovenian health care. Of course, the problem of hospital infections remains and requires the daily intensive work of highly qualified experts, doctors and nurses. In the last year, there has indeed been an increase in the incidence of vancomycin-resistant enterococa - another bacteria, which is an indirect marker of hospital hygiene. At present, the problem of vancomycin-resistant enterocotics appears to be largely controlled by the relevant UKC services. But it will take a lot of work not to rekindle. Data on hospital hygiene, especially at the frequency of MRSEs, are listed on the website of Slovenian hospitals - this is the second part of the response - among the quality indicators included in the sectoral agreement. However, the situation is different in nursing homes, which are not health institutions, is less clear and less manageable and estimates that the incidence of resistant bacteria is relatively high, as home caregivers are often treated in hospitals where they acquire resistant bacteria, especially for them vulnerable providers with chronic diseases. This is a task for the future, which will have to be regulated in any way. Now, in single rooms, as far as possible, we're always ready for them, but the problem is elsewhere, the problem is the lack of beds in [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u130	Thank you. Comrade Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. These statistics, which have been said, are very relative. In Scandinavia, the percentage is significantly lower than in southern Europe. From 0.3% in Scandinavia to, say, 30% in Spain, Italy and France, and if we compare ourselves with those countries in the South, then the results are really better, but if we compare ourselves with countries in northern Europe, then these results are not so good, despite the fact that statistical progress has been made over the last six years, that is true. However, as the Vice-President of the National Commission for the Management of Hospital Infections in Slovenia pointed out, about 50% of those infected with MRSA were still infected in Slovenia and that this figure is slightly lower in 2006, about 45%. She then pointed out in particular that only two hospitals in Slovenia have drastically reduced the number of MRSO infections during this time, or they are not listed, but I think they were Golnik and Jesenice hospitals, which is certainly commendable. And so it goes on, and we will be successful when we put MRSO infections in all hospitals below 10%, because it is unfortunately impossible to eradicate it, and at the same time it has also warned that the treatment of one patient alone with MRSO is more expensive than a four-year programme to prevent the spread of MRSA, so that you will have much work to do in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u133	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I agree. We have a lot of work ahead of us, a lot of it has been done, and the results of the improvement in recent years show that this work has been done well. In any case, we want to move to the level that Scandinavian countries have. However, if we are in an environment where we live far away from the best in improvements, it is also possible to find out and you have said it yourself. I must say that statistics are relative, in this case this is true, our starting base was relatively poor and then the results showed a greater improvement than in Scandinavia, where the starting base was significantly better at the same time. But that doesn't mean that the situation is a crisis, but it does say that the situation is getting better and that we are on the path of getting closer or reaching countries that have always been essential at a higher level, both hygienic and at another level. What you asked in the first part, and I didn't have time to answer, I can tell you that very frequent and regular hygiene controls are being carried out, [[However, in particular,]] that disinfection is already used only with normal water in patients’ examinations. I must say, when I was working alone a few years ago in the E.R., and also in the I.R., we did this extremely conscientiously. I must say that there is an extremely high level of awareness in the workforce, a very high level of awareness in this direction, and that the management of institutions, clinics and departments have also taken into account all those guidelines that have been adopted by global and European standards. And I think that this is also being done now, which has also led to the results now being adjusted in this direction as they did. I hope that we will be able to report on even better results in a short time after a re-sectional analysis, which was first done in 2001 and is now being carried out in practice, on a number of segments across different periods. And the results of this work and these studies have shown these relatively good results.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Member Boštjan Zagorac, the Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u135	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will follow the procedure, asking a question from two ministers, as in the scenario that we have received today. One is for the missing traffic, but I believe that the present minister will be happy to respond. I will start a little differently than we do Members in practice. After initiating the practice of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I will quote my question. This is what the President of the Government does, and some ministers are very skilled. I ask the competent ministers: What are the main reasons and problems in the construction of the Lendava-Maribor motorway connection, with the emphasis on asphalting highway lanes and the intended resting places? This morning, I was surprised by the letter from the Minister of Environment and Space, no institute of the National Assembly, no job, but the minister. I thought he was already sending me an answer, considering we're announcing questions, but when I read it, I saw it wasn't about that. The Ministry of the Environment and Freedom is not competent - in short, I do not waste time - for such a question. So I'm going to ask you in my belief that it's competent, yet I believe you'll be happy to answer me. The emphasis on my parliamentary question was on asphalting this road. The Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Transport are working together on the national location plan. Well, you're competent here. When it comes to building asphalt bases, you have to give your consent to set up such a base, either as moving or fixed, and you are also competent here. The emphasis on my question of the Member State, once again, is on asphalting. The asphalt base is part of the asphaltation; asphalt must be taken somewhere. Regulation on emissions of substances into the air from asphalt mixing plants, revered Minister, Official Journal No. 34/2007, 17.4.2007, page 4890, was adopted by the Ministry of Environment and Space. I still don't know why you're not competent. But when it comes to the highway [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] From Lendava to Maribor, this regulation was violated. [[...]] That's why I'm asking you: Is the establishment of a mobile asphalt base in accordance with a regulation issued by the Ministry of Environment and Space or is it not? That's the first question. And the other question that concerns the Ministry of Environment and Space is the question: Why is there no planned highway resting place between Lendava and Maribor despite the adoption of the national location plan? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This is perhaps a question that concerns your colleague. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u136	Thank you. I believe Minister Christmas will respond to the part he touched. Mr. Minister Podobnik, I ask you, do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Although I understood that today the President of the National Assembly has decided that only the Ministry of Transport has asked the question. But I don't see any problems. First of all, I'd like to say it was obviously a misunderstanding. On the basis of your question we received in one sentence, if I read it again: What are the main reasons and difficulties in building the highway connection Lendava - Maribor, with a focus on asphalting motorways and exit lanes and envisaged resting places? I didn't see a direct context with the department I'm running. As you have added to the question, of course, in this written question of yours, there would be no problem on my part to draw up the answer. First of all, I would like to say that at first I expected that the question might be, because it is talking about the problems of building a highway connection, that it may also be related to the expected traffic burdens of the new motorway section and the question of what will be the problem of new motorway connections, because this was one of the issues in recent years. The ministers have answered them several times, but this question is more related to the technical and other conditions covered by the transport sector when the motorway is put into space. However, as regards the question relating to the establishment of asphalt bases on the Emissions Regulation and the question whether any layout, as you said, is an asphalt base contrary to the current regulation, I will be very pleased to give you a very detailed answer to your questions in writing. Because I wasn't aware of any more specific questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I'm glad we cleared up the misunderstanding. Comrade Zagorac, you have a supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u139	Dear Mr. Secretary! You know that the President of this National Assembly is the first of all, and he can't decide anything when you say that he has decided anything. He can't. As far as your understanding of my question of mission is concerned, this is your subjective right and I respect it. Everyone understands a certain question of the Member State as they wish. But in my question, it was clear: "...the emphasis on asphalting, where asphalt bases also belong." Otherwise, I don't know why you're going to answer me in writing, because you have no reason to. We both know what asphalt base we're talking about. If you don't know, I'll tell you that this is a asphalt base located in Lower Senarska. Ge for the mobile asphalt base that was built there overnight. That's what I'm telling you. And you know that's where she was made overnight. You know yourself that your ministry has issued a negative determination that it can be fixed there, so today it stands mobile. I can give you this decision later, if you want, because you're not familiar with it, but I believe you are. And if you answer me in writing about whether any asphalt base in the Republic of Slovenia is inconsistent with the regulation I quoted earlier, I will not quote the articles, I will tell you that most of these asphalt bases are inconsistent with this regulation, as it is written. This in the Lower Senarski is an exclusive case of violations not only of this regulation, but also of any law. And tell me, why is this base still standing, despite the fact that it is inconsistent with both the regulation and the law? And don't tell me you'll answer me in writing because you know what kind of question this is, and the minimum thing I can think about in this case is the thought of three K's. And for you, you know better what they're called than I do.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u141	So, once again, even in the light of the complementary question, which is about a concrete mobile asphalt base, as you said, in Lower Senarska, I will certainly look into the inspection services, the authorities in the Ministry and the Environment Agency. I'll get all the written information. If I got that question in writing, I'd answer you today. If you write that down, I would answer you, I'm sorry, I don't have this data in front of me right now, and in full, you're going to get a very detailed written answer, that's all I can say.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, so we have a written answer on your part. A procedural proposal, however, by fellow Member Boštjan Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u143	Thank you once again for your word, Madam President. I think that this is not only my problem and that this written answer will not only be of interest to me, but to all Members of this National Assembly, because we know how much a kilometer of asphalt or asphalting costs. We know how much it costs to get a kilometer of asphalt like that. This is big money, and with so much money, it seems right for the entire National Assembly to be informed orally about it. I believe, Minister, that you are capable of the next session of these answers that you have promised me to provide in writing to this esteemed assembly, to those 90 people, who are all together concerned with both the taxpayer's money and the money of this country, you will be happy to present these answers. We may present a brief discussion of your answers, which is certainly very welcome. So allow me, and I hope that you will also support my proposal, because I believe that you believe that it is nothing illegal, that it is not a violation of any laws, no regulations. I'm just telling you that even though the Ministry has issued a negative decision, there this base stands, beyond all permits. But you believe this, I believe otherwise, the ninety Members in this esteemed assembly will be happy to hear you present your answer, which you will certainly provide within 30 days, so I hope that you will also be happy to support my proposal for a broader debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u144	Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Marjan Drofenik has the floor to ask the Minister for Environment and Space the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! As we read the newspapers, we are increasingly reading about the frightening scenarios of climate change, and this also raises my question. The implementation of the reform programme for the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy requires Member States of the EU to introduce new technologies that are expected to significantly contribute to the greater energy efficiency of medium- and small-sized enterprises, including in relation to greenhouse gas reductions. In the Community, it is the opinion that the introduction of new environmental technologies, including the opportunity for economic development and the opening up of new jobs, particularly those linked to the high level of use of new technologies, is the case. I ask the Minister for Environment and Space: Does the Ministry of the Environment and Space have a strategy to promote environmental technologies and energy efficiency, and is this programme involved in a programme to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and use of renewable resources? In particular, in terms of achieving the strategic objectives set by the Community by 2020. I am particularly interested in: Does Slovenia have a biofuels compliance programme, which assumes that by the end of 2020 at least 10% of fossil fuels intended to drive vehicles are being replaced? Thank you very much in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u146	Thank you so much for asking. And I'm asking the Minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u147	Thank you very much. This principled strategy, honourable Member, exists. First of all, I would like to say that both the Government and the Ministry of Environment and Space are aware that promoting the introduction of new environmental technologies is the right option to achieve the objectives which Europe has set very ambitiously in terms of climate or climate security. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions by introducing mainly energy-efficient technologies is also an opportunity in Slovenia for economic development, for opening new jobs, especially those related to either production or the use of new technologies. There are several technological platforms in Slovenia that deal with either renewable resources or cover the area of eco-innovation or eco-industry. At the last informal meeting of environmental ministers in Essno, I had the opportunity to invite two such Slovenian companies to present their products, Esotech and Holding Hidria. In the area of the promotion of new energy-efficient technologies and the introduction of renewable resources, I would like to mention the four programmes coordinated by our Ministry in accordance with its responsibility. The first is: a subsidy for efficient use in households; the second is: a favourable loan to introduce new technologies for efficient use in legal persons; the third is the introduction of an investment fund in the organic fund; and the fourth: preparatory activities to promote the production of biomass biofuels through second generation technologies. With regard to the means of effective use subsidies, the introduction of modern technologies is increasingly being targeted in the household. From subsidies - mainly for thermal insulation of residential facilities, subsidies for heat pumps and subsidies for biomass combustion plants have already been received in recent days. This approach is assisted annually by 1500 households. For the Slovenian situation, in terms of the promotion of new technologies, this is not an enviable number. With regard to the organic fund, I can only say that it has already helped to complete financial structures for legal persons in technologically more difficult investments in the field of environmental protection and energy efficiency through favourable loans. Even those facing ITPC procedures, not least, this is very important. To this end, around 32 million Euros of loans per year and 70% of them are devoted to a very efficient use of energy. However, the amendment of the environmental law will also give the legal possibility to the organic fund to further promote unestablished organic technology on the market and the way it enters and assists investors in such technologies directly with capital injections. And on the matter of biofuels. We are giving particular emphasis to preparing for the introduction and promotion of biofuels from wood biomass based on second generation technologies. It is known that the production was fuel of the first generation, either oilseed fuels or sugar, does not achieve such a great energy effect. In the production of bio-diesel from the oilseed, we consume 60% of the fuel and only 20% of the bio-ethanol from the sugar. Biofuels from forest biomass based on second generation technologies are significantly more energy efficient, and in our view they can be a real opportunity for Slovenia, which is very rich in forest potential. Only 10% of the fuel is used for their production. However, it is estimated that from an annual increase in forest mass that is not suitable for another, especially wood use in the Slovenian furniture and wood industry, it could replace at least 15% of the primary energy that Slovenia consumes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u148	Thank you very much. My colleague Bojan Kontic will raise the question of a letter to the Minister of Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of Economy! In 1997 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepared a suitable proposal for a law on the participation of employees in the company's profits, which followed European guidelines and recommendations and experience in this area, but regulated only labour participation in the company's profits, not the ownership of employees. This law was never dealt with, even though it was published in the Rapporteur. In this mandate, we have twice tabled a proposal for a law on the participation of employees in the profits of society and the ownership of employees in the Group of Social Democrats. And twice, as everyone knows, we were unsuccessful. On both occasions, one of the arguments was that the Government was preparing a comprehensive solution to the problems or that we had warned in our law that it was necessary to settle. And so this marriage was rejected twice. In view of the fact that the Government had drafted this law in its programme and that it first belonged to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, we have, or I have also asked this ministry, which later in the second reading of this law or in the second proposal of this law, was somehow derogated from the Ministry of the Economy. But the fate of this marriage was similar to the first time. The second time the law was rejected. I would like to know, given that all the deadlines that have been in the government's prognosis of this law have already expired and that the law should already be prepared and put into the procedure, I would like to know: When do you plan to draft this law and when will this law come into the parliamentary procedure? Now, I say, if we don't put our slightly amended draft law in the parliamentary procedure for the third time in early autumn, we will do so until this law is passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Dear Member, thank you for this question. The government has already incorporated into the work programme as well as into the programme of this coalition the Law on Financial Participation of Employees and Profits. In fact, we estimate that it is of paramount importance that employees in companies also benefit from part of the profits, as they ultimately create it and beyond the various possibilities, both through renewal and through participation in the company's share. Of course, it's a very complex problem, so you're right, this has dealt with several ministries before the Ministry of the Economy. I must say, we have come quite far. The draft law is prepared in the working version. Of course, it is crucial how tax-stimulating companies will be for these schemes, how they will also be tax-stimulating employees to remain in society in the long term, so that they do not renew it immediately. Subsequent analyses, including financial implications, were needed. This has also prevented the drafting of the marriage text for a few months and is followed by a relatively important part which is repeatedly pointed out by the SD Group of Members, this is a social dialogue or dialogue with both trade unions and employers organisations, and if we manage to harmonise everything together, you can expect the marriage text on the table in the autumn months. I want this very much, not only because of the commitments we all made together, but because I believe that the participation of employees in profit is important in terms of belonging, in terms of the motivation of employees and, finally, that workers who create profits from this directly have something. So, the law is an important part of our ministry's normative programme for this year and I sincerely hope that we will have a happy hand in negotiations with the social partners and that, of course, we will also be able to negotiate this. However, I would repeat the reasons or at least one of the important reasons why we have not accepted the proposal, as proposed by the SD, and, if so, we probably will not - this is an approach. In fact, you have advocated relatively rare solutions in Europe, this is compulsory participation, and, as you have already done in the starting and written position of the Government on your proposal, we have already received a reasoned, voluntary model and, of course, a completely different and different concept and thus solutions. So, I suggest, honourable Member, that our final objective is content, that is to say, a law that will allow this, not prestige, and the force of an established solution that may not be the best. So, I also propose that as soon as the law is in such a stage, we can also picture it, that we connect, that I actually explain to you the concept that we follow, and that we see what kind of support we can, even from your parliamentary group, expect. However, if I am well aware, this law is also part of the legislation that we will coordinate in the framework of the Partnership for Development and the outcome of this, and I hope for constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Complementary question, colleague Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank the Minister for his reply, and I particularly like the reasons he has listed for the need to adopt the law. We have been alerting these reasons for a long time, and we will again if this is necessary and it is the right conclusion that the Social Democrats always demand coordination with the partners. I want you to have a happy hand, too, and I want the unions to have a happy hand in negotiations with you when you discuss the content of this law. Of course, content is important, so we have put some effort into preparing this law. But conceptually, we were able to part ways, and that was explained to us at the time. We have advocated a certain number of employees of compulsory arrangements, but because we have poor experience and in this way we want to ensure that workers are definitely involved in profit and that this will not be a matter for individuals who decide whether or not to do so. It's a bit of a hair puller, but let's not go for prestige. This is not about prestige, it could be pointed out to me by the coalition, it could be read to the government, because twice our proposal has been rejected and what could draw conclusions from this story or the teaching that it is necessary to wait for the Government or the coalition MPs to make a proposal, and then, without prestige, this law will meet the criteria. But I would like once again your assurance that this will be the fall. And given that we are now in a state of economic growth, the so-called almost-favourable financial situation, it would be right to provide workers who are creating this profit, who are creating a new value, that they are also involved in sharing this profit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u154	Thank you, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I really need to be very clear. The reasons why the Government rejected the proposals were quite meaningful. In fact, if I make it very simple, the reason was that any approach based on compulsory participation was inadequate. Inadequate because I don't believe in a mandatory way of referring payments to employees. I think it's a matter of stimulating both sides to decide. Therefore, this concept of tax relief provides for those legal persons to devote part of their profits to the remuneration or participation of employees while at the same time giving tax relief to employees to stay in society in the long term, it is said that they participate in the company’s capital in the long term, either as shareholders or in a different relationship, in other capital companies other than equity companies. Of course, we do not prevent the possibility of immediate payments and then a slightly different tax treatment. So this was a key reason, because we want to establish a partnership based on the interests of the labour and labour side. And there is something else I want to say - that I am also advocating that some of the successful economic growth we are recording last year and even this year will also be poured into the thickness of our wallets. If we compare real wage growth this year, we can say that it is with a certain backlog, but still real wage growth. More than that, it is important that we finally move into a system where successful or more successful companies can pay this part, a stimulating part of wages, so that profits and created values do not just spill everywhere into some level playing field, but reward more successful and more promising industries. Indeed, we are, not least, witnessing a lack of staff in certain professions, in certain companies, and it is right that payments will also in some way move the labour market. And it is this system of participation that financial participation is a concrete measure to achieve that they are successful and that we are not subject to some negative consequences of a universal or some level playing field in raising wages.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u156	Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. The next question will be asked by Mr Ljubo Germič, Minister for Education and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Minister Zver, a year and a half ago, I have already asked you two questions at two meetings of the National Assembly regarding the conduct of the Government regarding the Slovenian Institute for Sport, which it also concluded. At that time, you reasoned that the employees of the then office would be transferred to the Ministry and that they would carry out the tasks performed by that office until then. It was interesting that in a very short time a new institution had been established with similar tasks as the institution you had terminated, including by a similar name, namely the Public Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia - the Institute of Sport, for which you reasoned that some of the tasks performed by the previous institution would now be transferred to a new institution and that you justified such behaviour, that now the conduct would be more transparent, that the conduct would be more rational and that the services that the country would receive for this money would be significantly better. Of course, in the wake of all these arguments that you mentioned at the time, Mr. Minister, I ask you today: When can you or I hope that you will be able to do so today, the Ministry of Education and Sport and you, as minister of this department, will be able to disclose to taxpayers the results of a project to rationalise the activities of the former Slovenian Institute for Sport launched more than one year ago and how can you, as Minister of Education and Sport, on all the positive effects of sport participation, explain rationalisation if it occurs or reduces budgetary resources for sports programmes and reduces the activities of sports of children and young people? Of course, Mr Minister, I thank you already in advance for your answer. The reason that I decided to ask you this question again is certainly in the results published in Informator 2 Youth Sport 2006/2007, which discusses the report, the analysis of the interesting programmes for sports children and youth for the 2005-2006 school year, which talk about the report, the analysis of the interesting programmes for sports children and young people for the 2005/2006 school year, where Head of the Directorate for Sport, Mr Starček points out that, based on the data obtained and the comparison with past periods, we see untapped opportunities mainly in the field of organisation and human resources. Above all, the latter will need to pay particular attention in terms of training and relevant values of their status and work. On these points, we think of the Director of the Directorate and, with my question, I ask you for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Thank you, too, for the question. With regard to this latter, sports programmes for children and young people, let me say that the funds allocated for this part are increasing from year to year. In 2004, we spent 839 million for this, a year later 851 and last year 861 million Slovenian tolars, which means that the country also devotes a little more attention and resources to this segment. If I start with the question of rationalisation; in itself rationalisation was not the purpose, but actually a more prudent organisation of work in the field covered by the Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as greater efficiency and quality. And I can say that at the time all 11 employees - then - had the opportunity to move to work at the Ministry of Education and Sport. This option has been used by five workers who are now providing services to the same extent as before 11 at the Sports Institute. In fact, the Ministry has temporarily taken over all the activities and activities previously carried out by the institution. We can say that at this time we have developed and built a new, modern and effective information system for the purposes of sport in the Republic of Slovenia. The information project in the field of sport, which was previously carried out by the institution, has not been carried out in ten years. In those ten years, the office needed one task and did not carry it out. Thus, in a relatively short period of time, we have done urgent infrastructure work, which is the basis for one of the important foundations for the creation of sport policy. Finally, the Court of Auditors in its audit also drew attention to this fact. The appropriateness of this has also been confirmed by other sports associations, and we can say that the tasks of the institution that have been transferred to the Ministry have been further strengthened and are also doing better in the field of sports of children and youth, which you have highlighted. The funds earmarked for the operation of the institution in 2005 were exactly 73 million Slovenian tolars, and with all the activities carried out by the Ministry of Internal Affairs now, we have halved these funds, i.e. for the same tasks, by half. It is also necessary to reject in your question the thesis that there is a reduction in the budget for sports programmes. That thesis is on hold. The percentage of the sport budget in the Republic of Slovenia is increasing. This year it is 0.29%, in old money it is 5.6 billion Slovenian tolars. For example, as early as 2004, we spent 3 billion Slovenian tolars or 0.19% in the budget for sport. If you allow me just to summarise: in 2006 and 2007 we wanted to give more emphasis to development [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] for [[...]] [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] only maintaining the system, so in this year's development area, development and professional tasks in sport, we have increased the funds by 46%. In short, we note that public funds in the field of sport are constantly increasing, that we have exceeded even the intended goals [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] from the national sport programme just three years before it was planned. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Complementary question, colleague Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u161	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Of course, you are skilfully avoiding a specific answer, as you have also avoided in the first two questions, where you have not answered that the Government's actions have, of course, bypassed both the national sport programme and the Sports Act. But when you talk about performance, I would ask you to comment on two facts that are directly presented from the Informator. First of all, I would like to ask you: How can it be that, for example, when compared to the percentage of checked schoolchildren after the years included in the Learning to Swim Action, 91.7% of those enrolled or verified in 2004-2005 are observed, while 68.7% are verified in 2005-2006, which is a 23% reduction. Then I would ask you: How do you comment on the fact that in the Hura programmes, the free time for young people to be involved in sports programmes during the holidays, at the end of the week that the number of programmes organised by the Slovenian Sports Institute fell by half in 2005-2006 - that is, from 20,000 to good 10,000 - with the number of programmes falling from 236 from 2004-2005 to 60 in 2005-2006, and that the amount of total resources of the Slovenian Institute for Sport from 18 million SIT fell to 6 million SIT. This is the information from the Informant and it would be good to comment on all the facts that you were talking about. It would also be interesting to hear more concrete, which were all those sports organisations that supported activities related to the abolition of the first institution and then the establishment of its successor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u163	Undoubtedly, in the field of sport, the state has not only implemented the last two years, or two and a half years, but for many years rather an effective policy. A large number of public funds are earmarked for young people in particular. We can say that there are more and more programs and choices are also becoming more and more varied. It is therefore logical to expect that we cannot expect a continuous increase in the level of participation on a permanent programme, not least because of the demographic problems we have. So the number, let's say, in the sports department is smaller, normal, in recent years, because the number of students is also smaller. But if it means anything to you as a result of swimming knowledge, it's also one table talking about the same thing. Last year's school year, the percentage of swimmers was 89%, in 1994 69%. From year to year, this percentage is higher, which means that these programmes deliver concretely good results. Also, the Golden Sun and Krpan program, where there are some fluctuations, but generally speaking, the rate of participation in these programmes is increasing. And so on. I mentioned earlier sports programmes and children, youth in general. According to this development work, the resource growth index in 2007 increased by 309. And we have achieved 266% of the implementation of the national sport programme. More specific information, if you want it, we can deliver it to you. They are very encouraging to me and, perhaps, more than encouraging. However, as far as the institution is concerned, but I have already warned several times, the institution was not partial to the tasks for which it was established, from records to the information system and so on. It has practically failed to carry out its statutory tasks and, therefore, I have been forced to react in the sense of a good master - just as we are. And now we've done those tasks that should be performed by the institution. This was also pointed out by the Court of Auditors in its audit and I think that the move we made was more than justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The following question will be raised by Member Aurelio Juri, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is absent. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u165	Thank you. I do not have this honour, of course, that the Minister would answer me today, but I expect him to answer me, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, at the first meeting of the National Assembly. The desire and plans of the United States to put the so-called anti-missile shield on the ground of Europe, in particular in the Czech Republic or Poland, are increasing the international temperature, particularly in the face of opposition from the Russian Federation, which sees the threat to itself and the beginning of a new armed period and new tensions between the superpowers in the world. As Russia's fears and consequent threats, at least with regard to the new arms spiral, hold true and, as far as we have seen from the high European mouths, there have been fundamental signals in order to continue the disarmament process, in particular the nuclear one, to remind us that, at the start of its Presidency, Portugal is also announcing special attention to disarmament issues and not proliferation, it is surprising that a specific American project entering Europe this time has not yet been heard by the European opposition. And Slovenia is mainly silent and waiting; if anyone talks about it, he would rather be referred to the relationship with NATO. Therefore, I ask the Minister: Does the Government assess that such a shield for Europe, for its greater security, for the security of Slovenia itself and for the consolidation of peace in the world is useful and necessary and that it is therefore necessary to host it on the European soil itself? And: Does it belong to the policy of reducing nuclear and other arsenals for mass destruction, or, if it considers otherwise, how and when does it intend to address its concerns, if it does not simply send its clear opposition to the ballistic shield to the United States of America and to partners in the EU and NATO? In short, what will she propose when looking for a common common position of the European Union on this challenge? Will she be principled and say, "No," or will she, as she has done many times, take more precautions? As I said earlier, because there is no reply or the Minister today, I expect an answer at the first next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u166	Thank you very much. And colleague Geza Juban will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello to you all. Mr Minister, the reason for this question is quite a few controversy related to the incidents in the Gulf of Piran, some findings of the Institute for Balkan Studies, perhaps the National Union, which is connected with the People's Party, and daily questions of the directly or directly affected people in the area that we will now talk about. The Ministry of the Environment and Space is responsible for the regulation of flood protection along the Mura River near Hotiz under the powers relating to the water economy. For the joint reconstruction of the embankments with the Republic of Croatia on the left, i.e. on the Slovenian side of the Mura River, the Slovenian and Croatian Prime Minister Janez Janša and Ivo Sanader agreed on 3 September 2006 at the meeting with Hotiz on the country of the mentioned territory near Mura in the middle of last year. The Ministry of Environment and Space all the time claims that the main task of the Slovenian and Croatian sides is to arrange flood protection along the Mura without prejudging the course of the state border. However, the Republic of Croatia has also done a series of actions at this part of the border that change the actual image and state of the border. It is true that our country, at this part of the border, has also adopted measures, the state of borders and borders as it existed on the day of the independence of the two countries, which is 25 June 1991, but I am talking about the Drnovšek-Racan agreement, which confirmed the rights enjoyed by the State on 25 June 1991. Following an agreement which was of course an essential compromise nature, the main part of the territory on the left bank of Mure would remain Slovenia, at the expense of the territory of the Slovenian cadastra on the right bank of Mure, the renewed anti-water concrete dam between Hotizo and Koto takes place between the unused border line under the Drnovšek-Račan agreement and the Croatian cadastral border. The fact is, therefore, that the Croatian side with unilateral actions, as well as with the technical agreement on the restoration of the floodgate in the management of the territory on the left bank of Mure, is increasingly moving, meaning that they are being extended to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Minister, you are aware that in international law there is also a tendency to impose a long-term reality, i.e. by the principle of 'trueness comes from law'. As Minister of Environment and Space, as well as a member of the government negotiating group, which has a very clear and occasionally decisive position on border regulation with Croatia, what will you do to ensure that this principle does not prejudice our interest? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for the question raised by honourable Member Gezi Juban. I can assure you, given your question, that, as Minister of Environment and Space, which has an important responsibility here for flood protection, and at the same time, by respecting the preservation of the aquatic and peripheral ecosystem, I have always followed the integrity and sovereignty of the territory along the Muri River as part of my responsibility. I can give you an argument - what I'm going to do, you asked - I'll give you a few facts. The first is that, on 17 July, the Slovenian Environmental and Space Inspectorate issued a decision obliging the concessionaire VGP Mura to remedy the entire section on the left bank of Mura, including the section between Hotiza and Kot. I would also like to say that, at the beginning of last year's year as Minister, even on the basis of the content of the eighth session of the permanent Slovenian-Croatian Commission on the Water Economy, I have consistently advocated the state of the border on 25.6.1991 in dealing with these issues with the Secretary of State. Then what happened? Then we have even prepared a comprehensive project; for the first time, no minister has prepared it by then, I must say so. We prepared it, we also introduced the permanent Slovenian-Croatian Commission, including the Croatian side, which then informed us that it intended to begin these works for the reconstruction of the embankment at the same section. At that time, my letter to a Croatian colleague followed that, in so far as they intend to do these works themselves, they need an appropriate permit and consent in accordance with Slovenian legislation. Then a contract was concluded with the VGP Mura on the commencement of works in this area of the embankment. However, as the Croatian side began to carry out its own work on this, including the road body near this embankment, the inspector for the environment and space twice carried out a field inspection and also prepared a report and then issued a decision. We have a valid decision of an inspector with whom is Vodogradnji d.d. Varazdin then ordered the establishment of the previous situation. I would also like to remind you that in these negotiations on technical solutions, the Croatian side has expressed its intention that, in accordance with its legislation, the construction of the embankments is possible only if Croatia buys or decomposes land on the embankment and that it can do so even after the work has been done. In the framework of the agreements and negotiations, we have consistently opposed this, which would be an unacceptable solution, as it would mean dispossessing Slovenian owners, and this is an important act of the exercise of public authority. The joint implementation of the rehabilitation of the embankments shall not, under any circumstances, alter the ownership relations in the area. This is also the decision of the Government, which was adopted on my proposal 28.9.2006, and so it was actually implemented, also on the basis of the views of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Let me also summarize the solutions that were then proposed by the competent inspection; therefore, to carry out the following necessary maintenance works: adaptation of the crown of the high-water embankment after the course of the smoothness of the centuries high waters, taking into account the safety altitude in Lower Bistrica, Kot, Colonia, from Petišovec to Benica, to prevent substantial water flow through and under the embankment between Koto and Hotiz, Lower Lakos and Colonia, and to separate the icy waters in the settlements of Hotiz and Kot. Moreover, the total value of the works that the contractor is obliged to perform following the appointment of the concident this year takes into account the public service tasks, including the confirmed public service work programme, in the Mura river basin area, which it is also responsible for, for the period January-December 2007, and also together with the value of works in the Ko-Hotiz section following the addition of 14 May this year at a total amount of EUR 3 million 974 thousand. I would also like to say that with this investment we have also taken advantage of the only appropriate moment to incorporate into these high-density embankments near Mura the higher material produced in the construction of the highway in [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] I'm moaning. [[...]] This was the right moment to go into this big project. The project is designed comprehensively, taking into account, as I said, the conservation of the aquatic and peripheral ecosystem. This also applies to the continuation of [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Complementary question, colleague Geza Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, I am distracted by speculation that possibly - the findings of the Institute for Balkan Studies - there are some territorial difficulties on the part of the Croats. And you're defending the 25.6. border on the Wall, through which the Croats built a bridge worth about 2 million euros. They went further across the Drnovšek-Račan border, which is in one part along the Mura River, and after one part is between the embankment and the river Mura. And they crossed this border and on the third border, they built a concrete mound on the embankment, which you say is worth 3.5 million euros -- somewhere around here, right? How will we tell the Croats when she stands up, say, a river back on the river Mura: "Forget the embankment, forget the bridge, now you will go back to the river Mura and you have nothing here." This escapes us because it can become a embankment, a concrete fence, which is anti-floating very well, a new border, which is far away and for a few hundred hectares elsewhere, as you say, perhaps someone else, on the Muri River, or what the President of the Government now says is the basis of the Drnovšek-Račan agreement and that we should negotiate from here on out. This is said to have crossed your border, across the Drnovšek-Račan border, to the third border, which we fear will become or will be negotiated as a state border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u173	Thank you very much. In view of the competence I have as Minister of Environment and Space, I can only reiterate that, in the implementation of all water management measures, including those relating to the conservation of the aquatic and peripheral ecosystem, I will follow consistently within my powers the integrity and sovereignty of the territory along the Mura River, I can assure you that. And if you go to watch me act as a minister from the very beginning, when the issues of the great threat to the flood plains opened up, for ten years the Slovenian leaders warned that something had to be done and no one did anything. The movements I made as the Minister of Environment and Space here are great and visible. I can also assure you that, in the context of the professional solution from a water and technical point of view, the continuation of the construction of this embankment - on 5 July, we have recently signed, the ARSO has signed an addendum to the concession contract for the performance of certain tasks of compulsory State economic services in the field of water management in the Mura River area this year, will also follow this fundamental commitment. I also spoke earlier about some of the details that were linked to last summer's very vibrant summer and autumn, at which a few meetings of commissions and subcommissions, where the Slovenian side also insisted, on the basis of the consistent positions of representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, that all our actions are such as to achieve the integrity and sovereignty of the territory along the Mura River, I can assure you that. And last but not least, the value of these works, for which this annex was signed, is more than €2 million after the approved project documentation. So we continue these works in accordance with the agreement and competences we have as those we are building on water management in this area of Slovenian territory.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The next question raises the question of the Mag. Milan M. Cwickl, Secretary General of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I take advantage of the business opportunity and the official of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I ask the Secretary-General: How does he assess the new salary classification of all employees in the General Secretariat of the Government? I ask this for two reasons, for the first time because I am curious: Did you agree that employees in the General Secretariat of the Government will finance those who have a higher number of previous jobs after the new salary classification actually part of the salary raise for younger people? It is the fact that a worker, a worker of 30 years of working age, will now, after the decision of the Government, whose secretary-general you are, instead of 15% of the supplement, have only a 9% supplement: that is, a reduction of 1 sixteenth, a reduction of 6%. And secondly, in this regard, I wonder: Did you stand up for your salary, or was this a direct initiative of the Prime Minister? In fact, as reported by the media, after the decision on the salaries of the officials was amended, only in your case did the salary rise from 60 to 62, which is to the level of the minister. And in this regard, Mr Secretary-General, I agree, you are a government official and because of me you can also have a minister's salary, but I want you to share everything good and everything bad from the Minister. But, Mr Secretary-General, you are as Božo Podalič, as a representative of the Management Board of the Slovenian Compensation Society, becoming a member of the Istrabenz Supervisory Board, and your monthly benefits are at least once higher than your official receipts. I wonder: Do you think it is okay to earn almost twice as much as your assumed Prime Minister of the Istrabenza Supervisory Board with an additional job? So, Mr Predalič: Do you intend to follow in principle the policy of Janez Janša, who says that officials must withdraw from the supervisory councils, and you will withdraw from the Istrabenz Supervisory Council, because you will follow the will of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, whose decisions, which measures, whose laws you are signing here. And, of course, please remember how you paid the workers and the workers in the General Secretariat of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Secretary-General of the Government for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u177	Thank you very much for your question, honourable Member. While it is very widespread from the question you have asked me, I believe that the part you have written and announced is more important to you, so I would start in this work and then continue with the extended part of your question. That is, you asked, at least the announcement of the question was how I assess the new salary classification of all employees in the General Secretariat. It is not possible to provide a comprehensive response to all employees, as the new wage class classifications in the General Secretariat are currently only accepted for officials under the Public Sector Wage System Act, which you have adopted in the National Assembly. Such classification has not yet been definitively harmonised for public servants or public officials. In the General Secretariat, or I am the only official as Secretary-General and classified in the 62nd Payments Class. There's also a part of your question. If we look back a little bit, even in a government where you yourself participated as Minister for a while, then the Prime Minister-General was Mr Mirko Bandelj, and even before him, virtually all the time, the Secretary-General's salary was at the level of the Minister's salary. Now the wage classes of ministers are converted to April's salary closest to grade 63. My current salary, or April salary, was in grade 63. As my salary goes down to the 62nd grade, my salary goes down by one wage class. You can check that out. After all, I gave this to the media. My wages are public, so you can always see that. With this change, my salary will fall less than with the original proposal when it was envisaged that I was in the 62nd pay grade. This is said in a class that is lower than the secretary of state. You probably also agree that the position of Secretary-General is higher than the position of Secretary of State at the Ministry. And that was one of the basic reasons why the correction took place here, I don't know why the 60th grade was scheduled at the time. At that time, I was not the Secretary-General of the Government and did not participate, but I know that in these comparisons, the 60th Wage Class for the Secretary-General, the 61st Wage Class for State Secretaries by ministries and the fact that the Secretary-General was always in the rank of Minister, at least in the past governments, even in the government in which you were active as Minister, was the main reason that it was later fixed, namely in the 62nd Wage Class, which is lower for one wage class than most ministers have. So much for that part of the question. To continue here, where I stayed before. I'm in the 62nd grade. The classification of the functions of all branches of authority, enforcement, legislation and judicial authority was subject to coordination when the decision on the salaries of officials was drawn up and the Constitutional Court, in its decision, expressed no doubts as to the appropriateness of the classification of these functions. In view of the above, I accept the classification of the function of Secretary-General as appropriate. As you know, this payment system will start to apply as of January 1. However, as regards the posts or titles of public servants or government officials in the General Secretariat, the classification has not yet been completed. Following the initialisation of the public sector collective agreement, which is expected to take place on Monday, 16 July, the negotiating partners will enter into negotiations for a collective agreement for State administration, the judiciary and the administration of local communities. This negotiation is expected to be completed by mid-October 2007 at the latest, so that the new salary system for public servants can be applied as of 1 January 2008, which is also the common will of the Government of Slovenia and most of the social partners.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Comrade Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u179	Look, Mr. Secretary-General. First, comparisons with other secretaries-general. Mr. Bandelj was Secretary-General, but he only had a salary, and you are - as stated by Dnevnik, 30 June - only as a member The Istrabenz Supervisory Board received another €32 180 in one year. I ask you: Will you do the same as the ministers? Minister Bajuk resigned from the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Export Company, Minister Vizjak of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Power Plant. Are you going to resign as a member of the Istrabenz Supervisory Board because you are paid in the same way as ministers? First question. Second, about your employees at the General Secretariat. How could you, as a government, make decisions that mean conversion if you didn't even know how much individual wages would be paid? Undoubtedly, those who have 30 years of past work will be reduced by 6%. How can you lead these people by example? You have a minister's salary and you have another EUR 32000 in addition to the minister's salary. And, Mr Secretary-General, you said you did not have to resign as a member of the Istrabenz Supervisory Board and you will resign as a member of the SOD Management Board. And I ask you: How come as a member of the SOD Management Board you agreed to sell Mercator's shares to Istrabenz, and now you're getting out of where you made a hole and you don't want to get out of the Istrabenz Supervisory Board, a shareholder company? I ask for a very clear answer, and please explain to me how you could sign the documents that you submitted to the National Assembly without knowing how much of the salary will be paid by your first co-worker on the new system. I think it's a complete con, and especially that you know how to take good care of yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr Member, for this additional question. I'll try to answer you as best I can. In the first part of the question you're asking me about the Istrabez Supervisory Board. You read it in the Journal, you quoted it yourself. The decisions of the Government and the Government Regulation relate to undertakings which are owned by a majority of the state or where the Republic of Slovenia assumes the role of founder. You know that this fact does not apply in Istrabenz, but it does in the SOD. That's why the government regulation obliges me, which is what I said in this newspaper where you read it, that I will resign from the SOD by 31 August. As far as the second job is concerned, when you're asking about employees. I would like to remind you that Article 39a of the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System provides for the remuneration of employees elsewhere, as well as in the General Secretariat of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, for the translation of the nominal amounts of basic salaries fixed for jobs or titles and the nominal amounts of basic salaries paid by public servants under the rules and collective agreements applicable to the payment of salaries under this Act. Under Article 49c of the law cited, however, the nominal amounts of the value of the job or title calculated in accordance with the law will be classified by value in the nearest wage class. This is said to normally account for the current salary to the nearest paid grade and, on this basis, to be classified. I assume that these results will also be achieved in the collective agreement or in the negotiations. But I wish we could be even more comfortable. On the basis of this, the classification of salaries for all employees in the General Secretariat of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be provided in accordance with the law and the collective agreement, and I therefore assess it as appropriate and comparable to the classification of the majority of public servants employed by ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Comrade Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u183	I propose, on a procedural basis, that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, we hold a debate on the incorrect reply of the Secretary-General. The Secretary-General has given some important facts. He said he would resign as a member of the SOD Management Board but would not resign as a member of the Istrabenz Supervisory Board. Good. The matter of your decision, but Mr. Predalič, Istrabenz's annual report, page - I don't know which, members of the Supervisory Board, representatives of the work: mag. Božo Podalič, representative of the Slovenian Compensation Society, his post: member of the Management Board. You will resign as a member of the SOD Management Board and you still think it is right to represent the Slovenian Compensation Society in Istrabenz? Doesn't that seem conflicting to you? Do you not find it conflicting that, as a member of the SOD Management Board, you have sold Marcotor's shares cheaply and remain a member of the Istrabenz Supervisory Board? Don't you think it's conflicted to fight for a higher salary, as high a salary as a minister, but, of course, you're in an unequal position with ministers? Since the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - for example, Mr Podobnik cannot be a member of the Supervisory Board of any shareholder company, where he would receive 32,000 Euros of the annual prize. And I tell you, there was no such thing in the previous government. The ministers did not sit as members of the supervisory boards. That is why, of course, it is right, Mr Predalič, it is right that the Government has decided that officials cannot be members of the supervisory boards of the participating companies. But that goes for you, too. You're a beloved official. The first appointment made by the Government at each of its meetings when it meets is the appointment of the Secretary-General. He leaves and comes with the government. And you think it's right for you to stay in the Istrabenz control council! I wonder, Mr. Speaker, do you know what the profit of Istrabenz is? In the first quarter of the year, Istrabenz had 700 000 euros in profits, and you gave 400 000 euros in profits - such are the conclusions that you supported as a member of the Supervisory Board - for the Istrabenz administration award. Therefore, the President, I propose that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 260, we discuss the duplicity of the Government of Slovenia, the duality of the policy which is represented here, where you say, yes, we raise our salaries to be paid as ministers, but we will keep the best of the private sector, we will remain members of Istrabenz, after you have made a bad move and sold as a member of the SOD Management Board of Israbenzu Mercator at a price. I think that you should be sued as a member of the Supervisory Board of the SOD, d.d., as did Mr Toplak and others, because you have harmed citizens and citizens, and I propose a public debate on this, and I ask you to stop being double-minded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u184	Thank you. Comrade Petan, allow us to continue our session. We will vote on your proposal, Comrade Cvikl, as part of the vote tomorrow. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. The next question will be asked by Ambassador Aleš Gulič, a fellow Member of Parliament, to the Minister of Finance, who is absent today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u185	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president! I'm very sorry that Dr. Bayuk is not here today. This is one of the few ministers who has brought some Romance relaxation into this insidious Slovenian free assembly. I'm also sorry that there are no colleagues from SDS. After all, it seems important to me that we Members do our work in the National Assembly and that some of those who need to ask questions are prevented from attending the appointment of Ljubljana Airport at Jožet Pučnik Ljubljana Airport. The question to the Minister is: How long will you allow illegal gambling in Slovenia? How can it be that, despite almost a year-old decision by the Office for the Control of Gambling that requires bwin to stop advertising and arranging gambling via the Internet in Slovenian language, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not act against illegal gambling operators and does not make any changes that would regulate this market that causes major social problems, especially addiction to gambling among young people, crime, so it would also, of course, ensure the long-term stability of revenues from concession fees that lottery holders who have this concession in Slovenia have to pay, but on the Internet, do not have to pay? What measures will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance, therefore take to prosecute illegal gambling operators in Slovenia to regulate this area? I would, of course, like to be answered orally by Minister Andrej Bajuk. I hope that by autumn he will be able to study this and answer me, although I am a little worried that he will not have time at that time, because he will probably be preparing for the first congress of funeralers of Slovenia, where he will be decent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u186	Thank you, too. As you yourself have found, you will not get an answer today. The following question is raised by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Minister of Health. Here you go. I'm sorry. Did you cancel your question today? [[No, no, ……]] Then the wrong information came to me. Excuse me, Comrade Horvath, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, representatives of the Government, honourable Members, honourable Members. Although Minister for Agriculture, Mr Iztok Jarc, is absent, I would like to ask a question, it seems important to me, and I expect a written answer from the Minister as soon as possible. I ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Mr Iztok Jarc to explain: What are the reasons why the Ministry does not support, or does not allow, the co-financing of, the calcification or accommodation of agricultural areas, and what is proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food as an alternative solution? I have seen the problem in particular in Pomurje, which we know is the most agricultural region in the Republic of Slovenia. All municipalities in Pomurje have built agricultural development programmes that have been prepared together with the professional services of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia, this is the Agricultural and Agriculture Institute of Murska Sobota. Most of the soil in Pomura has been too permeable and acidic and farmers have been using calcium calcification preparations for years to soak and sustain the benefits and fertility of soil. These preparations or calcification measures were co-financed by all municipalities in Pomurje, which are now no longer allowed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. My concern and concern is that if in the future it will not be possible for farmers to maintain their surfaces in favourable fertility, there will be an interruption of agricultural activities in the central part of Pomurje on the most shallow soils, as this will make it impossible to implement integrated crop production and other sub-measures in accordance with the technological guidelines issued to farmers by control services, control organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. As I say, to the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Iztok Jarc, I thank you for your written reply already. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u188	Thank you very much. And once again, my apologies for letting you out of the question-makers review. Now it is the turn of Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, who will raise her own question to the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I received a few points of reference for the parliamentary question today from the Prime Minister of the Government in an effort to escape the reply to the parliamentary question at the beginning of the meeting. I believe the President of the Government knows that your ministry actually enjoys the support of only a very narrow circle, and I will say, your fellow concessionaires. The entire professional public, the lay-out public, is, hand-to-heart, outraged at your actions, is announced even, and I will not mention the interpretation that we are preparing, but a referendum against your policy, which you are leading at the Ministry of Health. You are reflected in the disputed award of concessions in the evening or night hours where the Bianca concession contract was signed. I have this document. Disrespectful treatment of patients - some of your moves even have the effect of corruption. So I don't want to mention it. In short, Minister, you're working for capital and not for the good of the public. But so you won't answer the question, let me move on to the content of the question that I have also announced in advance. But I will focus on one segment of the health system, this is the area of dental care, and I will try to speak in as simple a language as possible, a language as we know and use users of health services, those people who are actually facing the consequences of privatising the public sector. The first worrying fact is that the introduction of privacy in orthodontism has increased waiting periods, including for children and also for up to five years. In Slovenia there are about 50 active orthodontists, a large majority of individuals who do use sophisticated technology, quality technology, however, the vast majority of children are placed on very long waiting lists, I mentioned, Minister, even up to five years - for children. I ask you: Do you realize what this really means for children - these are long-term consequences - in the fact that in Slovenia there are more than a quarter of children who have dental abnormalities that require correction? Most child dentists today have concessions, fewer dentists work for school children. A specific example: the school office is closed for a long time because of the lack of dentists, the door was informed that patients should visit the dentist in Ljubljana in urgent cases, specifically, in Ashkerchev. Only in emergencies, but exclusively, I stress once again, Minister [[End warning sign]] , in emergencies. This means that prevention of preschool education or schooling, as far as health and dental care are concerned, is not working. What are the expected effects of concessions in the field of [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u191	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Your Honor, thank you for asking. Your debate on the issue has no direct bearing on the issue you have raised. The question was what were the impacts of concessions on individual sectors within Slovenian health care, but you only talked about dental care. So my answer will also be to this, but I must say that we have no branches in health care, we have specific specialties in health care, we are neither an athletic organization nor anything else to have industries. It's not a industry, it's just specialties, specializations, individual areas of clinics and so on, but well, that's probably a lapsus I take as such. In any case, this issue is completely irrelevant and is not linked to the award of concessions. The very question was about orthodontism, a speech about dentistry, which was very much taken to the field of concessions all the time before I came to the ministry. During this ministry in the field of dental care, we have virtually not granted concessions. And let me tell you again - I don't know if you understand or don't want to understand, perhaps this other option is quite possible - that concessions in this area are granted - or whether you can answer me - by the congregation, not by me. They are distributed by congregations; they are the ones who grant these concessions. I didn't grant any dental concessions, I just confirmed them where all the conditions were given. And as far as dental care is concerned, we have had a system in Slovenia from now on, and not from now on, that allows for a relatively large payment of all compulsory health insurance and supplementary health insurance services. In Ljubljana, during the last year, 70 dentists wanted to obtain a concession. Regrettably, or whatever, in any way, the city congregation had no hearing whatsoever to grant them this concession and did not grant it to them, and so could I, even if I wanted to, could not. This isn't my area. In short, this question, the content of this question has been put in the wrong direction when we are talking about specific specialities in health care. Nevertheless, I can tell you that the Ministry wants to achieve greater accessibility by granting concessions, and above all greater competition and cost efficiency, and we have achieved this. And with the introduction of this public-private partnership, this system is only being upgraded. For the same funds, more efficient business and greater accessibility must be achieved in this way. I don't know if you are aware of the waiting periods that we have cut so sharply in recent times, especially today, I have opened up a new magnetic resonance in Isola, which will again shorten the waiting period for the magnetic resonance, where we have already reduced the waiting periods from 11 months when we arrived at the Ministry to 3 months on average in Slovenia. In short, four times. And these machines and such activities will further reduce waiting periods. This is not a private activity at all, so waiting periods, on the other hand, are markedly reduced by additional programmes, which we have also allocated to private people in public health at the Ministry. And with these privates, we have greatly reduced waiting times in some areas. Here, let me tell you, one of these areas of specialization in health care is, say, a naked or thyroid operation. The thyroid operations were reduced by the granting of the concession, the waiting for this operation was reduced to practically to a value that is difficult to measure at all - a few days or a maximum of 14 days, two weeks. Since the time we came to the Ministry, it took a year and a half to wait for surgery. I think that these results are clear and that privacy has also helped. Not only did the public, but the public, the public sector, of course, have great merit in doing so with much greater efficiency than before, but it was also normally paid, which, of course, was not, with the resources we had at our disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Complementary question. Here you go, Ambassador Tavshevo.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u193	Thank you so much for saying that. Minister, I'd actually be surprised if I could get a normal answer from you, without any cynicism or teaching. I don't believe I'm an expert, but you know, there's a lot of "falls" to you at home, too. And since you're hiding behind cynicism, I'm gonna say, you're beating your head off, and that's bad. You're tacturing professionally at the expense of the entire population. Allow me when you say that you actually have nothing to do with concessions; I believe you know that this is one very big lie that you have said. And if you want to teach me today that dentistry, whether it's a branch or a specialty or a specialty - as you call it - does not fall within the scope of your department, then tell me who is responsible for this area. And I say to the Minister that most child dentists today have concessions and that because of the concession fewer dentists work for school children because in the case of school children, this is not a lucrative business. And I believe that in this part you will agree with me. Among other things, you mentioned that the Municipality of Ljubljana recently had no hearing to grant concessions, but you added the word unfortunately to it. I wonder: What will be the impact of this mass award of concessions? For the time being, all I can say is that concessionaires or privates are taking great advantage of those people who cannot pay for, I will say, better quality or faster health services also apply in the framework of dental care. Just one case, Minister. The concessionaire charges 23 euros a month to his patients with an excuse to offer them a superstandard. And you know what this superstandard is - to protect the files, which is even illegal, and to skip the species! These are the visible effects of concessions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u195	Of course, the charges go on and on, flying for no reason, no basis. I don't know what you mean by that. I've spent my whole life being a well-recognizable expert in health, medicine, and I'm still doing it as a minister. And I respected professionally all the time. Of course, what is a profession is sometimes a little harder to explain, but in every way, my work is always focused on caring professionally for it, protecting it and, above all, respecting it. And that's what's been going on since I've been in the Ministry and before. There's a lot of evidence for that, and you don't have a career to beat. Of course you told me I had nothing to do with concessions. Of course, I have concessions, because I can't deny it, but I have nothing to do with concessions, except in the last phase, in the field of dental distribution. These are two completely separate things! I sign the concessions for dental care after the municipality has already decided and awarded the concession, after all the conditions for the award of the concession, including the insurance company, including the Medical Chamber and so on, have been met. And there were other conditions under which someone could obtain a concession. And on the basis of all this, the congregation will grant a concession that I will finally sign. I cannot say that I will not sign it if the congregation has already determined that all these conditions have been fulfilled! So I have concessions. Concessions have never been enforced, on the contrary, concessions are awarded in the order they exist in Slovenia under the law since 1992, in the same manner and under the same conditions. So you're asking where dentistry belongs. Dentistry is also part of my department, not the direct distribution of dental concessions, where I am the last signatory, after the conditions have been met. You're also saying that today dentistry mainly works with concessions - it's not from today, I'll tell you again, well! This is exactly the same since 2005 or 2004, when I came to the Ministry. We have granted or approved minimum concessions on the basis of municipal decisions on dental concessions. Minimum number! Since you've just started asking me about dental care, I can't tell you this moment, but of course I'll let you know and of course you'll be able to get it. And the prevention is exactly the same as it used to be. Its role, preventive, concession or ministry has nothing to do with it. I have met with dentists recently, and I must say that we have found that it is right in the area of prevention recently done quite a lot of work and the results are visible. But doctors, private people very much [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] They take advantage of you as concessionaires, you'll have to prove it. [[...]] For now, there's no way someone can sue you, but maybe this opportunity will come. They don't take advantage of anything and there's none. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u196	Thank you. Here you go. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u197	Thank you very much for saying again: Minister for your answer, too. Now, if you threaten anyone with a lawsuit, because he hopes to warn himself about the irregularities that are taking place; perhaps because I mentioned in the dental system or in the public health system - Minister, be ashamed of yourself! In this place I tell you this - loud and clear. You know, the warnings aren't mine, they're not from today, the warnings go through the public to you, I hope they come to you, that you're not so blind and deaf that you don't hear it or understand it. Minister, these warnings are not from today and believe me, the warnings are very serious. But when you said, I don't know if I should tell you, or should I ask you: Does the Ministry have a national youth health programme with clearly defined goals? No! No! The Ministry does not have this, so I say that the Ministry of Prevention is very limping at prevention when we talk about children and adolescents. There is no evaluation, we do not have an information system to monitor the dental condition of the Slovenian population. Minister, I don't know, these are the things that came to me -- I didn't get another answer from you -- from experts, from dentists. The situation in this area is getting worse, only the information I got that curries are on the rise is talking enough. Not because people would not be sufficiently aware, Minister, but because the health system in this area has become inaccessible. And that's what those waiting types are talking about - for five years I mentioned, it's waiting time for the baby to get to the dentist because there are no dentists. This is also what the Ljubljana people are talking about, and I will tell the director of health homes that the crazy lack of child dentists is due to the granting of concessions. I guess something's not right. Whoever's already responsible for the concessions, Minister, has to do something. I say you are primarily responsible for this policy. And also because, once and for all, the information you promise to have has been clarified, but you have not been able to present it to the Members, nor to the public. You know, it would make sense to have a broader debate, Minister, without mistaking. I hope, and I stand for every word I say. I hope that's what you're behind. As has already been said, I will use the opportunity given to me by Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure to hold a broader debate on this issue in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u198	Thank you very much. This will also be done tomorrow within the framework of the voting point. We continue to ask questions from the Members of Parliament. The next question will be asked by Mrs Darja Lovtišar Bebler, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is also absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u199	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I am sorry that Mr Rupel is away from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but I wanted to ask him the following question because of the public and, in particular, the Korean Slovenians. On the day of our statehood, the President of the Austrian Government, Mr Gusenbauer, addressed the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and said, inter alia, that he had personally taken up and directly engaged in preparing a proposal to address the issue of bilingual local inscriptions in places where the Slovenian national minority lives. He left a very good impression in front of Members of the whole of Europe because his concern for the realization of the special rights of the Slovenian national minority in Austria seemed very sincere. However, during his speech in Strasbourg, his proposal in Austria began to circadianize at all possible ends and places. As a last resort, only a few days earlier in the Council of Europe, on the Committee of Deputy Ministers, considered a report by the Committee of Experts on how Slovenia implements the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages. The Austrian representative was very vehemently attached to the estimates that Slovenia was not doing enough to enforce the rights of the German or old Austrian minorities in relation to public use and education in German in Slovenia. This deficiency appears mainly in the area of pre-school education because it is not implemented in German in areas where it is necessary. If only our government representatives could take such a firm stand for the rights of the Korean Slovenians in Austria that I do not speak of those in Austria's Styria. I therefore wonder: How does the Minister assess the current situation with regard to this issue? How does it respond to the criticisms of Slovenian organisations in Austria that the Slovenian government is not strong enough or that it is quite passive, but also at bilateral level, when it should open these issues and demand an appropriate resolution in accordance with Article 37 or Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty and the decisions of the Austrian Constitutional Court? And when he had been peeling cherries in Brda with the Foreign Minister of Austria a few days ago, of course, I would have asked him whether he did not hesitate to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Austria: How is it vital to resolve this, to the Korean Slovenes and also to Slovenia as the protector of the national minority of Slovenes in Austria. And I will thank him for his answer, and I expect him to give me this oral answer as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u200	Thank you, too. The next question will be asked by Member Cyril Testen, the Minister of Finance, who is also absent. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. That's a nice greeting for the president. Greetings to the Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! My question is addressed to the Minister of Finance and I expect an oral answer at the next meeting. At the end of June, the Ministry of Finance received a judgment on the ownership of the Triglav Insurance Office. This judgment confirmed the opinion of the Ministry or Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, that the renewal of the procedure for determining the beneficiaries of the purchase of shares on the basis of a new, once higher valuation is admissible. On this account, the state budget will receive EUR 50 million of additional resources and thus prevent damage to state property. Mr Financial Minister Andrej Bajuk, I wonder: How is it possible that there is such a difference between the first valuation and the subsequent valuation of the value of the insurance company? How do you explain that the previous management of the Triglav Insurance Company hid the second valuation or the previous government failed to act? I would also like to ask: How will this judgment affect the further ownership process of the Triglav Insurance Company, and what does such a court decision mean for the country and, consequently, for all taxpayers and taxpayers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Before we move on to the second round of questions sent, I ask you to understand, because I will interrupt this meeting in two minutes. We'll pick her up at 7:00.26. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u203	We are moving on to the second round of questions sent. Mag. Majda Potrat will ask a question from the Minister for Education and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. Dear fellow Members, honourable Members and distinguished Minister! Allow me, Minister Beast, to ask you questions first and then explain their content: Why did the Ministry of Education and Sport not provide an analysis of the implementation of the national sport programme to the National Assembly? Why is access to information about the operation and allocation of funds of the new public institution for sport of the Republic of Slovenia, the Institute for Sport? In March 2000, the National Sports Programme was adopted and adopted by the National Assembly. It states in Chapter 6 that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia reports on the implementation of the national programme once a year. However, it is imposed by the Sports Act that the Ministry prepares an annual programme of sport for each year, which only the Government of the Republic of Slovenia accepts. By 2004 the implementation of the national sport programme could be monitored. In 2005 and 2006, almost EUR 30 million was allocated from the State budget for sport, and an additional EUR 23 million was to be used from the State budget in 2007. The implementation of the national sport programme in the last three years is expected to be EUR 53 million of public money, the use of public sports money or the implementation of the national sport programme in this government mandate, and no report to the National Assembly could be traced, so that taxpayers could be informed through Members and Members of Parliament about how the funds were spent. As said, the practice of the former government was different, and the practice of the Institute of Sport was such that it issued an annual brochure and an electronic informant. In accordance with Article 10 of the Law on Sport, national-level sports performers shall be selected by the Ministry of Education and Sport on the basis of a public tender. However, in accordance with Article 58 of the Sport Act, the Ministry of Education and Sport must keep operators informed of who is implementing the annual sport programme and how many public funds it has received. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the annual sports course. And this is where the problem begins. Can not get message: %s %s [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u205	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u206	Dear Mr. Vice President! Madam Member, thank you for the question, which is a very similar question to which I have already answered today. Let me try to answer both of your questions in a way that I will not repeat myself, but add to what has already been said. You are right, the national sport programme was adopted years ago and tried to set some goals to be achieved by Slovenian sports policy. And today, we are pleased to find that, three years before the end of this national sport programme, we have achieved all of these goals or in most of the points. So, as far as this is concerned, we can be more than happy. The fact is that by 2004, you're absolutely right, they've done the analysis. However, this analysis and reporting was rather poorly prepared, especially because the Institute for Sport, which you mentioned, did not produce all the records that should be legally required. We have only established these records in the last year. At the same time, we did not have an information base, an information system, so that we could monitor the development of Slovenian sport consistently and properly according to the criteria established by the national sport programme. This means that it is only in the last period that we have established some conditions that will allow us to produce a comprehensive and valid report, an analysis of the implementation of the sport programme itself. And we will present this, I think that by the end of September we will have prepared a thorough analysis of the whole event so far, with particular emphasis on the last two years, especially because they have not been submitted. This is what we are going to do, but once again, I stress, but we are not because not all the conditions for preparing a thorough analysis have been given. This means that there were no records and there was no information system. Only now are the conditions for such a comprehensive analysis prepared and the autumn will be ready. The annual sports programmes were normally confirmed, not only by the Government, but also by the Olympic Committee of Slovenia and the Professional Sport Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia; of course, civil society is present in both associations. With regard to the second question, that access to information on the operation and allocation of funds of the new public sport institution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Institute of Sport, has been disabled, I can say here that the matter has never been set in any way by trying to hide or hide. The fact is that we have reorganised the institution, which has already been discussed today, to establish a new institution with a slightly different function. In fact, he will work more on professional and scientific bases and there will be fewer tasks or tasks that can be performed by an official work. Some of the projects, as I mentioned earlier, have therefore been transferred from this institution to the office or ministry, to the Directorate of Sport and we are successfully implementing them there. So that the mission of this institution will be more professional-scientific and less operational-executive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Minister, for this part of the answer. You've probably noticed that I've been asking other questions. I have asked you about reporting on the implementation of the national programme, but this is not out of any particular potency or curiosity, but because it is a legal obligation. And if it was not appropriate, you say, the databases on which such a report could be carried out, then I think that at least what should be done would be that the parent working body, this is the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, has informed that you have not done these obligations, because as a member of this committee, apart from the Mountain Roads Act and the last debate on the Sports Foundation, we have not spoken much about sport in the previous term or this mandate. That's right. And the last time we discussed the Foundation, we found that we did not actually get any concrete information. I am pleased that you say that three years earlier the objectives of the national programme have been achieved, which was replaced by the 2010 anniversary. But I cannot tell you that the strategic orientation in sport would have been achieved three years earlier. Perhaps some of the goals have been achieved, but if I only follow public opinion, everything that is related to sports education and also readiness, physical fitness and healthy attitudes towards sport is quite problematic in the youth generation, far from being a sports nation. And that's what I'm worried about, so I'm asking you these questions. Otherwise, it is clear from the Access to Information Act that information should be published online. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u210	We have set up an exemplary information system where data and records are available if the law allows. I am also available to open at any time some of the substantive questions you yourself have raised. They are very good themes and we can give very good basis for discussion. Once again, I look forward to the fall talk and the debate on the implementation of the national sport programme, which we will certainly prepare.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mag. Borut Saiovic will raise the question of a Member State to the Minister of Transport, who is not present. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable ministers, colleagues and colleagues! My question is also addressed in particular as a wish and an initiative on the part of Minister Bozic. I'm sorry that he's not in this room today, because I'm sure at least in the part of this story I'd certainly establish the position we represent. On the route of the mountain highway there was an extraordinary archaeological site, the so-called Roman villa Rustika, which surprised many in the monument and in the cultural profession, because it is one of the outstanding finds in the field of Slovenia, and in particular a unique and surprising find in the area from Ljubljana to Gorenjska. The existence of this is linked to a change in the project, which is not large. It is the fights of €140,000, which would allow us to build a concrete reinforced wall instead of a protective embankment that will soak up an extraordinary site, as an anti-group fence. These solutions have been offered by the profession and the matter costs, you will not believe the EUR 140,000. I am pleased that this protection project is also supported by the Ministry of Culture, with Mr Simoniti at the head. And I think that the policy is also on the move to provide these missing money in a way all together, regardless of political colours and labels. Gorenjska is no doubt a province that will live in the future less than industry and more than tourism, and this site could in a few years enhance Gorenjska's tourist cultural offer. I am convinced that these funds, which would have been invested over the coming years and decades, can be reimbursed, especially because the Ministry of Culture has already produced projects through which it would provide more than 300 000 euros for the presentation of this extraordinary site, and there will be no doubt that this information will also be rejected by Gorenjeks, who drive daily on the highway. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , as well as our guests on their way to Ljubljana, we pay Dars in one way or another somewhere in 10 to 14 days. [[...]] Therefore, I ask and give the floor to the Minister-designate to re-examine the matter and, in the context of Darsa's funding option, to provide these funds or some of the funds with credit or, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] provide in the budget for the following year. [[...]] It may not be irrelevant in this story that all the Goran Members support it, too, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] irrespective of colour and customer affiliation. [[...]] It also supports the profession that provides for this [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u213	Thank you very much. I believe in the Minister of Transport's positive response when we get it. The next question will be asked by Mrs Maria Possonec, Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present. Mr Minister for Environment and Space [[...]] [[ringing the phone]] Janez Sponiki would like to ask the following question. [[...]] In northeastern Slovenia RTV transmitters and various telephone converters are very, very common [[...]] [[ringing the phone]] They stand in the middle of the village, where the population is very dense. [[...]] Studies on the harmful effects of radiation on these transmitters are well known, and people are very opposed to the very transmitter in the Cavemen. The minister said he was just looking at this transmitter, twice, and he promised that a solution would be found very quickly. It's not like that. I ask: When can people expect you to move the transmitter to a safer place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u216	Thank you very much for your questions, honourable Members Maria Possonec. If you allow, about electromagnetic radiation, because individuals are also available a personal dose meter that permanently measures radiation loads and covers various sources of electromagnetic radiation. I wore it last year for a few days, and I was, you wouldn't believe, the most exposed I was to was the use of that device that disturbed the Member twice during her performance. The cell phone showed the highest dose I've ever been charged with. So this personal dosimeter remains, and if any of the Members would like to have it, they can have it. On a concrete question, I would like to say that I have personally taken a very personal interest in getting rid of the issue in the Cavemen. I answered a very similar question to your fellow Member six months ago, and I asked myself what had happened at that time. In fact, at the time I received a letter from the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia, as well as a reply from Mobilel, who said very clearly that if RTV object moved to another location, Mobitel would also move its base station to this new location. What's the problem? The problem was that this new location, which would have all the technical parameters, would stand in the neighbouring municipality of Moravian Toplice, at a work where the municipality of Moravian Toplice and the locals disagree. The location proposed by the local or municipality of Moravian Toplice is significantly less suitable from a technical point of view than that proposed by both RTV and Mobil, d.d. I hope that there will be some compromise solution for this move to take place. On the written question, Madam Member, you have also mentioned the Longevity of you. In the area of Long Village we only have mobile telephone base stations, we do not have high-frequency radio and TV transmitters, but they are in the wider area of Lendava, namely, the regional centre has Maribor, Studio Lendava has 10 on Kranjčev, as well as the broadcast point of Dolnji Lakoš. But this is in the wider area of Lendava. In my first reply, I suggested that perhaps a little more time should be devoted to this sensitive issue by the Committee on Environment and Space - we are prepared to provide all the material there - in order to take more time and go through the regulation through the regulation to answer the question as well. It is often said that there are studies that demonstrate the harmfulness of this radiation to human health. I must say that the guidelines of the International Commission for the Protection against Unionised Radiation, which is an independent international group of scientists in a number of fields, which also assesses scientific literature and identifies health risks, and that these guidelines are also supported by the World Health Organisation and then this is the basis on which these thresholds are recorded under the Regulation, but should in principle believe that their reference values are such that do not harm health. For new interventions in the area, Slovenia has introduced an additional preventive factor through the regulation and has protected the most sensitive areas. These are the living environment, schools, kindergartens, hospitals. That is why we demand increased protection, a 10 times stricter restriction than is the case in the European Union. This is the case in Slovenia. We also have a special register of radiation load data based on measurements of electromagnetic radiation in the natural and living environment. If you would like to know, now this cadaver of sources of electromagnetic radiation is prepared in an interactive nature-protective atlas, it is online and now we will move it to my proposal for an internet connection so that everyone can look for each Slovenian municipality. In view of technological developments, we will face ever-increasing new sources and also new related processes to place these resources in space. It is therefore very important for the population to become aware of this issue and to support very much the measurement campaign carried out within the framework of the EMS Forum project and in cooperation with the Community of Slovene municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u217	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. He really was thorough. That's what's going on with the cavemen. If only the RTV transmitter was what they gave in the 1980s, I don't think people would object as much as they do now that they've added a lot more. But as far as the Long Village is concerned, it's in a nearby hamlet, and I live 500 meters away, so I know it's there. And it's been glowing all night. I think it's Simobil.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mrs Lovtizar Bebler has the floor, which will ask the Minister of Justice the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u220	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, exactly one year ago I asked you: When will Slovenia last sign and ratify the United Nations Convention against Corruption? You replied that the verification commission has already carried out the verification of the translation of the Convention into Slovenian and that the Ministry of Justice is preparing everything necessary to initiate the ratification process and to implement this Treaty. At that time, on 10 July 2006, last year, you also praised the fact that the amendment of the state prosecutor's law had been redefined by the power of a group of state prosecutors to prosecute organised crime. This includes corruption and other crimes, whose detection and prosecution require particular organisation and competence. Thus, this group of state prosecutors, as you said, will contribute significantly to the detection and actual prosecution of corruption. Last December, when I asked you again when you would finally submit the United Nations Convention to the National Assembly for ratification, you referred to the fact that you were waiting for a decision by the Constitutional Court, which in your opinion would be expressed in your opinion also as to how it could satisfy the conditions laid down in Article 6 of the Convention. Today we both know that the Constitutional Court has only found that Slovenia has not yet ratified the United Nations Convention and that this Convention, logically, does not bind us in any way. At that time you were also looking forward, Mr Minister, to the fact that Slovenia was even better evaluated in the international comparative review on corruption than it had been a year before. Today we are facing a special report by the OECD's relevant working body, which notes with concern that Slovenia is failing in the fight against corruption, the level of awareness of the problem is low, and the OECD is also concerned about the announced abolition of the anti-corruption commission, which is the main anti-corruption "watchdog" in Slovenia. Is there anything you're worried about, Mr. Secretary? Perhaps you, too, are concerned, Minister, will you finally propose to ratify the United Nations Convention against Corruption? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u222	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Thank you also for the question, honourable Member. You have outlined some of the content of the answers that I can only agree with so far. Among other things, I said a year ago, or more precisely, I think this was last November, that the constitutional judgment has somewhat slowed down everything with regard to the ratification of this Convention. The constitutional judgment is here, it is known. Meanwhile, we have already obtained the first results of comparative analyses of comparable European countries, which are also dealing with the same issues. In short, in the Netherlands, the Ministry of the Interior plays a coordinating and proactive role in the fight against corruption, particularly as part of the Public Sector Integrity Bureau. France has created a central anti-corruption prevention service, a body under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. Luxembourg has set up an interministerial body for the purposes of Article 6 of the Convention. The Anti-Corruption Committee, composed of representatives of the judiciary, the police and the ministries concerned. The Committee does not have permanent staff, nor does it have its own premises. He meets several times a year. However, Britain has not yet established a body dealing with the problem. We are looking at comparable countries in the euro area where we belong. The results we have received already give us reliable answers, so that I can tell you that we are expected to ratify this Convention this year, using all the options it offers for Articles 5 and 6 of the Convention itself and also the results of the comparative analysis that we have received so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The Ambassador of Dar Lovtišar Bebler will ask an additional question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u224	Thank you again for your word, Mr Vice President. As you are, I hope that, I quite understand, the Ministry of Justice is still engaged in some sort of comparative review to determine how it is in our comparable countries. Of course I'd say this. So far, 94 countries have ratified the United Nations Convention against Corruption. But the signature isn't just 11. And among them, if I have a proper review, there is not one European country or country that would be a member of the European Union. But it doesn't matter at all. It is also important that in these countries, as we have said, they have not yet ratified the United Nations Convention against Corruption and that they are still dealing with the question of what authority to authorize these activities, which, inter alia, is provided for in Article 6 of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. However, Minister, you have said nothing to my question: How is this OECD report now expressing concern about the state of affairs in our country, which is concerned about the low awareness in society of this so important social disease of modern times? And you did not answer: How will Slovenia answer this question, or this report, which must be done, and are we still interested, or are we still among our strategic objectives, in Slovenia's membership in the OECD? I'd be very grateful for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u226	I thank the honourable Members. Also for this additional question. The answer is simple. We will do what you say has not yet been done by some countries of the European Union, but we will ratify the Convention before them. The comparative analysis is nearing its end. I have already told you in response to the first part of your question that I predict we will be able to ratify the convention this year. I hope that this can also be done by means of a reduced procedure. We certainly do not want the National Assembly to ratify conventions that would not be feasible in practice. We will therefore propose a solution that will give effective, independent, independent implementation of the activities required by the Convention to Prevent Corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Ambassador Dara Lavtizar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u228	Thank you. I find it very difficult to believe that particular attention should be given to the question of whether the Convention is enforceable in practice. I wonder how with 94 other countries that have ratified the Convention, this question, I suppose, is non-existent. I am not satisfied with the Minister's reply because I have received a similar response to the entire one already on 10 July 2006 and then on December 2006 and I have no reason to believe the Minister's promises now. Nevertheless, I think that the findings in the OECD report are very serious and very worrying, and I also think that the fight against corruption and everything that has been going on with it in Slovenia over the past two years is a pressing issue that the National Assembly should speak more broadly about. I therefore propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that the National Assembly discuss publicly the response of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-09-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the context of the vote. We have concluded the Members' questions. I thank all those who have participated in these activities. I also conclude this item on the agenda. I am adjourning the 30th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow. Good-bye and good luck.
