ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 30th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: France Pukšič, mag. Petty Officer, Anton Kokalj, Jakob Presječnik from 2.00 p.m. on and Martin Mikolič. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE LEGISLATIVE ACCOUNTS OF IMPLEMENTED INVESTIGATION SOCIETYS. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed magi. Milan M. Squeak. I give the text to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the bill. Mag. Squeakle, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u2	Mr. Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament, good morning! I'll see you again. I hope we get a better look than we did last night. The law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies, which we are adopting today at second reading, has a long beard. It was proposed by the Government of the previous composition, and a coalition of members of the various parties requested a first hearing in the summer of 2004, which meant that the law in the previous mandate was not capable of being adopted and was submitted as one of the most important laws to complete the transition, and at the same time allowed the protection of small shareholders in Slovenia. Mr Bajuk, despite his assurances in his party's programme and the coalition programme, did not take up the first year of his term. When we asked him when he intended to do so on the questions sent, and he did not give a clear answer, we summarised the law in 2004 between the Members and members of the opposition. In the spring of 2006, with great anguish on the Committee on Finance, we suspended the consideration of this law and decided that the Government would prepare amendments for second reading. Mr Bajuk has taken a year and more time again, so long that the third season of the economic communities in which the protection of small shareholders is being reduced. Finally, in May of this year, we received amendments from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and a few weeks ago we passed the law on the mother's working body in another reading. We will, of course, discuss the content of the individual articles below. Just as the law is now ready for second reading, the law is unconstitutional. The law is intended to protect small shareholders by either forcing the legal successors of the pids to become public shareholders and, for example, should make public some of the ways in which small shareholders take credit and become large shareholders of large companies, today I hope that the opportunity to talk about some of the executions already carried out or taken over is said to be one option to become legal successors of public pubs, which applies to them all the provisions of the Law on the Market of Financial Instruments or to become closed investment funds under certain restrictive conditions. The government has decided not to give these options to the pid. I suppose that, on the basis of the very limited possibilities available to the pids, the legal successors of the pids, yes, there could have been a constitutional appeal and a few more years would have passed, a few more seasons for the stockholders' assemblies in which small shareholders would be unprotected. It's over 160,000 small shareholders. The question today is whether we are interested in the elite or whether we are interested in all the small shareholders. If you confirm the proposed amendments to the applicants, which, of course, we had to design after the Government has drawn out half the law, then we will achieve that. If you can't do that, then we have a duality here. You are talking about protecting small shareholders, but the government and the coalition by their actions this protection of small shareholders makes it impossible and strengthens the economic elite in particular. That's what today is about. Yesterday we talked about the school elite, today we're going to be talking about economics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u4	Nice hello to you all! At its 28th meeting, on 26.6., the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the draft law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies as a work force. As has already been said, the proposal was a bill with a first-signed magi. Milan M. Szviklo was already introduced 1.2.2006, where a version was given, which was already submitted in 2004. We obtained the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which made comments to certain articles, and continued with the hearing at its 16th session on 15 March 2006, where we postponed the hearing again on the basis of Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, continued at the 19th meeting on 6 June 2006 and postponed the hearing, which we concluded on 26.6.2007. We received amendments from the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia 9.3.2006 and 30.5.2006. Amendments of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors dated 31.5.2006, letter from the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders with the amendments proposed on 31.5.2006, with the proposals of mag. Milana M. Squikla with amendments to the Committee of 14.3.2006, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the proposed Act of 15.3.2006 with amendments to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia 11.5.2007 - I was not mistaken, before 2006 - and with proposals for amendments to the Committee on the basis of warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service. [[...]] On the basis of the warnings sent to the Rule of Law, the Committee completed the discussions and completed the amendments set out below. As usual, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposer and also the Legal and Legislative Service participated. Finally, the Committee adopted certain amendments and, on the basis of Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure, the text of the amended bill proposed for adoption today was prepared. Finally, I might say that this matter, as you have seen, has already been going on for quite some time, there has been a lot of confusion. Even if the law had been adopted in 2004, it would have been adopted too late. According to my assessment, assets were distributed in Slovenia at the current value of around EUR 27 billion. And this property is precisely because we did not take care of the protection of small shareholders, both those who invested in pandas and those who bought the shares of the company, practically moved into the hands of about 2000 to 3000 Slovenes who have become endlessly rich and are now imagining how well they were doing. This is the result of all that has not been done, in fact for small shareholders has not been taken care of, have not been informed enough what to do and have become the target of financial speculators and those who have noticed somewhere, have seen holes in our laws, the Property Change Act and all others and have brought them all to their mill and for their own benefit. In fact, this law now solves almost nothing, 99% of it has been done before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr. Giga Lavrič, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u6	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present to you the basic purpose of the amendments to the law on the legal heirs of the authorised investment companies, which is before you today. The government has followed the main objective of the proposal of its amendments to the Law on Legal Succession of Authorised Investment Companies and this main objective is to protect the interests of thousands of small shareholders, according to small investors from certification privatisation. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia rejects or complements certain decisions of the proposed law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies because it considers that the proposed solutions do not meet the main cylic to a sufficient extent because they are not sufficiently adapted to the actual state of the problem regulated by this law. We have approached addressing this problem in a comprehensive and long-term effective way, without looking for a culprit from the past, and we have put great emphasis on protecting the rights of minority shareholders. The proposal of this law, which we are considering today, is a Member of the Magi. Milana M. Szvikla is based on the protection of minority shareholders in successor companies, but the solutions proposed do not reflect the actual situation, as the proposal for this law is a copy of a proposal tabled by the Government for consideration in 2004. We all know that, until now, they have amended both the Company Act and the takeover law, which have further regulated the rights of small shareholders. As you all know, there is also an amendment to the Securities Markets Act, which will replace the new Law on the Market in Financial Instruments and also the Law on Investment Funds and Enforcement Companies. The solutions, as proposed in the bill we are considering today, are aimed at correcting the past and do not provide for long-term regulation of the business area of these companies and the status of minority shareholders in them. With the proposed amendments by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to companies that are the successors of authorised investment companies, it is said that the obligation to trade shares of all pid successor companies in an organised securities market is an obligation. Similarly, companies that have already withdrawn from the organised market need to re-classify their shares in organised trade. We further propose certain specific provisions relating to regulation in the laws governing the market for securities, companies and acquisitions. The proposed amendments also commit the legal successors of the pids to the payment of the appropriate retirement allowance to shareholders with the share. Adequate cash withdrawal is in accordance with the provisions of the ZGD, so called the Company Act, and will be paid to small shareholders by companies, the successors of the PID in the event of withdrawal or exclusion from the organised market and possible status changes. It is also proposed to report monthly on the investment policy of the Securities Market Agency, in accordance with the provisions applicable to investment funds and supervision, this is the substance to be implemented by the Securities Market Agency and, of course, in the event of violations of this law, the imposition of penalties. With regard to the purpose of protecting the right of minority shareholders to challenge the proposed amount of the appropriate allowance offered by the social heirs if they consider that it is not properly established, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall take up the proposal of the Member of Mag. Milana M. Cwickle, which constitutes an exception to the laws governing companies and acquisitions when 10 shareholders are allowed to submit the audit and a restriction is added in order to allow for [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] It shall submit the same proposal for revision only once. [[..]] In order to protect the rights of minority shareholders, the amendment provides for some other exceptions to the laws governing the securities market and the company to take over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic, on behalf of the SNS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u8	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues! Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Government representatives! As Milan M. Squeakle said, this beard is long, like the beard of King Matjaž, of this marriage. The key question that we ask ourselves in the Slovenian National Party is why it is so long. Is this just a coincidence? Are these just procedural errors? This is the overcrowding of the National Assembly or, irrespective of the previous, the present, any government, which we are almost convinced of in the Slovenian National Party, is deliberately stalling. Why on purpose? Because at this time of waiting, any condition, any protection of small shareholders, has been minimised. There was no law, the rights of small shareholders have been minimized, and today we are there, with that poor percentage or two where we want to do a miracle. No more miracles. I wonder who else we are giving legal protection to with the proposal of this law, since the basic objective of this law is to ensure the protection of small shareholders. And so after these three years, we've come to minimal protection and forced those pid heirs to stick to two specific content: whether you're going to be a public company or you're going to be a closed investment fund. And a dot. I mean, great protection, with the money going. Mr Žiga Lavrič said that with this law we want to correct what has been done in the past. Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, correcting what happened in the past is impossible because everything has already been stolen. Stolen! They heard Mr. Starman say very nicely: stolen! And what will we do about this law? I'm just curious when those, I don't know, 95.96% of the stolen ones, are rich in Slovenia and Europe, how we're going to get them back, and how we're going to restore dignity and protect small shareholders, the successors of the pids. I don't even know why we're talking about this law today, I don't even know why we're accepting it, because in the Slovenian National Party we're convinced to fix it, it's impossible to return it. Maybe it's right to protect that minimum number of small shareholders. And once again, as far as we understand in the Slovenian National Party, the protection to force someone to the left or right, in the left or right mold, is not protection, but coercion. I'm sorry it happened. He says again, no matter what government it is that screwed up, the fact is, she screwed up. And the fact is, for 27 billion euros. However, someone in this country has to answer, if not, ladies and gentlemen, we can close this "stacuna" here and let those who do so do so do so peacefully and do what they want, and let us quietly observe from the side as we have done so far. And something else, regardless of whether anything I said on behalf of the Slovenian National Party is an exception; why is what is left of the original form that I am assessing not politically, but professionally, the original form of this law prepared by my colleague mag. In my opinion and in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, something has come up, once again, which has completely destroyed the original content. That too, of course, is true.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u10	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. Since spring 2001, attempts have been made to regulate the heritage of authorised investment companies, pids that have not moved from a dead point until recently. All proposals for regulations to ensure the effective protection of small certification shareholders and a transparent, credible capital market have so far ended badly. Today, we finally have before us a proposal for a law to regulate this area and to provide the disappointed remnant of 1.3 million citizens who, when privatising social enterprises, have submitted their own property certificate to any of the Pids, a dignified protection against the administrations of these pids. The most frequent privatisation process in the design of social property was carried out in the process of exchanging ownership certificates for pid shares, since according to the Agency for Privatisation, 70 % of all holders of ownership certificates have submitted a certificate to the pid. Initially, it was envisaged that pids should be transformed mainly into mutual funds and only exceptionally into regular shareholders after a certain period. In fact, we witnessed the mass transformation of pids into holding companies. In our view, the multi-annual delay in filling the Kurdish privatisation gap has not led to the adoption of a system-wide legislation regulating the operation of pid holding companies, but has not been under any supervision by the Securities Market Agency, nor has their operation been transparent, nor has it been subject to a strict legal provision concerning the maximum permitted commission, the dispersion of investments and ownership and the optional classification of shares in market trading. All of this has been most beneficial for the large owners of holding companies, which, due to the large dispersion of the ownership of small shareholders, could in fact only be managed in accordance with their interests. Let's just remember the recent case of Assets Invest. The State thus allowed the pid administrations and their allies to own most of the property so that a handful of people were enriched at the expense of small shareholders, who were more and less empty-handed without any protection. The original text of the bill in our parliamentary group was not fully supported, as, in a careful review of the proposed provisions, we have found that these are incomprehensible and incomplete, but with the amendments tabled, the original text has corrected to this extent that the amended bill is considered appropriate, in particular as regards the protection of small shareholders. In doing so, we point out that, while these well - thought - out solutions have come almost too late, small shareholders that need to be protected are now almost gone. In addition, we estimate that this story regarding the long-standing adoption of the Law on the Legal Successions of the pids will also have long-term implications for the entire development of the Slovenian state. In the DeSUS Group of Members, we agree with the solution that all the successors of the pids are subject to the obligation of public company status, so that all companies must place shares in organised trade. We agree with the regulation of supervision by the Securities Market Agency and the mandatory reporting to the Agency in accordance with the provisions applicable to investment funds, i.e. the monthly reporting of the investment policy itself. Our Group, although regretting that such a bill has come to our table with many years of delay, fully supports the bill's proposal in order to protect at least the remaining few played small shareholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Veršnik has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! We have before us the proposal for a law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies in second reading. The purpose of the proposal is to protect minority shareholders in successor companies resulting from the transformation of authorised investment companies. However, the solutions proposed in the first reading did not reflect the actual situation that has changed since the introduction of the law into the procedure and the situation in force today. Thus, the proposal did not take into account that both the Company Act and the Acquisition Act, which further regulated the rights of small shareholders, had changed at that time. There are also amendments to the securities market law, which is the new law on the market for financial instruments, which brings tight standards for reporting to public companies, and the law on investment plans and performance companies. The proposed solutions were also aimed at correcting the former ones, but did not provide for effective long-term regulation of the business area of these companies and the status of minority shareholders in them. On a proposal from the law, the government tabled amendments that were adopted on the home labour body. With them, the Government has opposed the alienation or division of smaller market and liquidity assets of the legal successors of the pids, while at the same time establishing for all the successors of the pids the mandatory status of the public society, all companies have to place shares in organised trade. Supervision of the Securities Market Agency, maximum penalties for offenders and mandatory reporting to the Agency in accordance with the provisions applicable to investment funds are monthly investment policy reports. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this has resulted in the completion of the most frequent privatisation process of transformation of social property, which took place in the process of replacing ownership certificates for pid shares, as the certificate is expected to be worth as much as 1.3 million and almost 70% of all holders of ownership certificates. In view of the above and of the acquisition by the Slovenian Democratic Party of the protection of small shareholders, the proposed law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies in the second reading will also be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pečan has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u14	Good afternoon, Mr Vice President. Good afternoon, colleague and colleague. Government representatives. The Group of Social Democrats does not have this moment of clear position on how we will vote on the law, on the legal successors of authorised investment companies, particularly because we do not know how the National Assembly will act on the vote on the amendments we have tabled. The fact is that, by adopting the amendments of the Government on the Committee on Economic and Financial Affairs, this law has been transposed into the field of disability, it is said that it should probably fall within the scope of the legislation on the protection of persons with disabilities, not into the protection of small shareholders. And because of the fact that the amendments that we have tabled and which return two chapters to the law, two of them are returning two chapters to the law, of course, there will be no sense that such a law, in the form that it is now most likely to be unconstitutional, will then be supported and that we will participate in the adoption of a law that can be concluded in the Constitutional Court. The fact is that the basic objective of the protection of minority shareholders in companies created by the transformation of authorised investment companies is that they have a specific position in relation to shareholders of public companies due to the special procedure for the formation of these companies in the relationship of other public companies and their shareholders, if the law does not provide for all the necessary steps to ensure that small shareholders can also effectively be protected from being expelled from individual companies. Given the fact that we now have a day after day, we can almost say, a visible practice of uprooting small shareholders, now, let's say in the last week, we've been informed that small shareholders were out of the tourist section of Istrabenz's property. It's from hotels in Portorož and Postojna. The fact is that this practice is not so old as to be able to talk about 10 years late, the expulsion of small shareholders from companies and also from the legal successors of authorised investment companies is very intense, in fact through the help of redesigned authorised investment companies over the last three, four years. Thus, if this law were to be considered and adopted with the necessary amendments by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the time of its second entry into the parliamentary procedure in 2005, it would be possible already to prevent a large number of them, I will say, in some ways we can say that small shareholders have been decommissioned because, in the vast majority of cases, their compensations, their shares have been sold, they have been forced to sell at a much lower price than the actual market value of these shares. For this reason, we believe that, in the case of such a structured law as was adopted by the Committee, the principles of transparency and the public functioning of companies resulting from the transformation of authorised investment companies or their legal successors, the principles of maintaining the level of protection of small shareholders and the principles of control over the conduct of companies which are the legal successors of authorised companies, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] they will not be able to be fulfilled. [[...]] We believe that now steps are being taken with the help of legal successors of authorised investment companies, such as Maxima, and the Move that prepares for assistance for management acquisition in Istrabenz or, for example, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Manager's takeover in Mercury and so on, I think they say a lot about the fact that the government, even this government, didn't care much about being a small shareholder. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Petek has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u16	Good-bye, everyone. The LDS Club supports the basic objectives of the law, which are mainly to ensure the protection of minority shareholders of companies created by the transformation of authorised investment companies, because they have a specific position in relation to shareholders of public companies due to the special procedure for the creation of such companies in relation to other public companies and their shareholders, and wishes to ensure supervision by the competent authorities. Secondly, it wants to prevent regular equity companies that are transformed from authorised investment firms or their legal successors from actually operating as unregulated and unsupervised closed investment funds, so that the funds are dispersed into marketable securities and other forms of liquid financial investment. The law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies was already aware that something must be done, i.e. already in the mandate of the previous government, and now by members of the opposition in this mandate. However, it was blocked by coalition members on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy for a long period of one and a half years. Unfortunately, these delays by the Government and the coalition have not helped those minority shareholders who have experienced the transformation of their authorised investment companies or those who have already converted into closed equity companies during this period have already been mentioned by Active Investment shareholders, some of them or most of them. The original content of the law is mutilated by government amendments, since the new section on the transformation of the new investment company into a mutual fund and the management of the mutual fund is, in particular, exempted from the law. The LDS Club supports both the amendments to this chapter and the amendments of the SDS Group of Members that, in the event of a breach of the deadline, under the law laid down for the classification of shares in an organised market, the Securities Markets Agency as a state manager should do so instead of management. This will also in fact guarantee that shares will be included in the organised securities market. As we see from the amendment review, the coalition, or SDS, copied the opposition's idea that the agency instead of the management should place shares on an organised securities market, with a certain disadvantage, that there are no specific deadlines after which the agency should place shares in an organised securities market. The sanctions for management and the companies proposed by the amendment are not, in our view, sufficient and are not a guarantee that stocks will be placed on the market in a timely manner. At the LDS, we are aware that the law really deals with only a small proportion of small shareholders who have remained since the pids were transformed, but we still consider it the duty of Members to pay attention to their protection and correct what is yet to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor, on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the Government's amendments to the law on legal successors of authorised investment companies. As found by the Legislative and Legal Service and followed by the decision of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the proposal had to be complemented by aligning it with the changed situation. If the basic purpose of the proposed Law on the Legal Succession of Authorised Investment Companies has been to correct the past, the protection of the interests and the status of small shareholders is now governed by a number of different laws. The Act on Economic Companies and the Act on takeovers are adopted. At this meeting we also adopt the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, amending the Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies. In the New Slovenia Group, we find that the amended legislation brings a longer-term regulation of companies and the status of small shareholders. The draft law is supplemented by amendments that we adopted on a proposal from the Government on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The main objective of the New Slovenia Group is also to ensure the protection of the interests of small investors who have become certificates. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support this solution so that the successor companies must pay adequate money if they exit or are excluded from the organised market or change their status. We further support the obligation to trade shares in all companies, the successors of pids, in an organised securities market. The same applies to those companies that have already withdrawn from the organised market because they need to re-enter their shares. The supervision to be carried out by the Securities Market Agency shall also be regulated. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the draft law with additions, as proposed. We want to listen to the interests of small shareholders and to prevent the possible exploitation by legislation of the ignorance of the multitude of ignorant shareholders who have become these on the basis of certificates.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik is also on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law on the successors of authorised investment firms definitively regulates the ownership of authorised investment firms. These can be transformed into investment firms, either into mutual funds or into equity companies. The law has been introduced into the procedure of the National Assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed magi. Milan Squeak. The law was mainly designed to protect minority shareholders of companies created by the transformation of pids, as they were created in a special way. This also requires special supervision. However, the second objective, as stated by the drafter of the law, is to prevent recast investment firms from actually continuing to operate as unsupervised closed investment funds. Marriage is certainly important. In view of the fact that it was prepared on the basis of a few outdated data from 2004, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared amendments for its mother's working body. In doing so, it should be pointed out that in its opinion on the proposed law, the Government notes that the main content and purposes of the law are good and that it supports them. However, amendments were proposed because the first draft of the law is not based on the real state and because it does not follow the latest legislative guidelines adopted after 2004. The amendments of the Government have been adopted on the Committee, which, in our view, has become fully suitable for adoption. It still follows the principle of the protection of small shareholders and therefore introduces the proposed law to dissuasive effect on the amount of the shareholder’s allowance offered, if they feel that it is not properly determined. An essential provision of the law is the obligation to trade shares in all companies of authorised investment firms in an organised securities market. On the basis of this, we believe that the law is appropriate, and we will also support the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a discussion on the chapters and articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 10.7.2007. I am putting to the debate the third chapter and the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. Check-in is on. Mr. Mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The fundamental dilemma which the Government has not clearly explained is why it decided to abolish with the amendment the whole chapter on the possibility of creating a new investment company from the legal successor of an authorised investment company. We ourselves assess that it is necessary to provide legal successors with the option provided by the legislation that it is not the only option of a "public company" so that it could also be a new investment company as a closed company. The government has made a different decision. We ourselves estimate that if the amendment to the third chapter and the next amendment were not adopted, the laws would be unconstitutional. I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia what reasons it has led to the total deletion of more than half of the law and thereby to the substantive reduction of the possibilities of the legal successors of the pids under this law. In this context, the Government has substantially changed the law and as a bill-maker, I have a dilemma, or such a potentially unconstitutional law, if the Government does not explain it very precisely, in fact, to support substantively. I would therefore ask if the Government would take advantage of the opportunity to present this to us here before the Slovenian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u23	Mr. Rudi Veršnik has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we propose that the amendments to the third and fourth chapters of the bill be fully rejected. With amendments, the SD wishes to reintroduce the entire original content of the MP's law. It wants shares companies, the legal successors of the pids, to be transformed into investment companies and mutual investment funds, after having to place their shares in the organised market under this law. With SD amendments, the proposed mandatory separation of small market or liquid assets from a shareholder would not necessarily be in favour of small shareholders, as it would lead to further fragmentation and reduction of these companies. This fragmentation would result in the further unforeseeable development of the shareholders. By dividing himself into a new society, he would have been eliminated only by a healthy one, a liquid part of the company’s assets with a new society. The separation would result in lower company liquidity and higher costs for a small shareholder, which would be contrary to the basic purpose of the bill. The proposed solutions would be, in fact, largely unrealistic after different transformations have been made or capital concentrations have already been made in former pids. In the SDS, we believe that for the remaining small shareholders, we will do the best we can in this time by really ensuring the classification of the current d.d. legal successors to the organised market of the Ljubljana Stock Exchange. This action will be able to create a fair market price for shares when sold by these small shareholders. We must not forget that large or large shareholders of stock companies, legal successors of the pids have transformed into current shareholders, contrary to the initial expectations or legally envisaged transformation of pids since 2001. At that time, we expected that most pids would be transformed into investment funds and mutual funds and would exceptionally take advantage of the possibility of transformation into ordinary equity companies. That's exactly the opposite of what happened. Most of them have been transformed into ordinary shareholders because the companies to implement or their founders have taken advantage of the holed legislation and have purchased untransparent and illegally in the grey market at the extremely low prices of the small shareholders of the pids and have done the concentration that we have witnessed today. LDS-led governments had the responsibility and responsibility to ensure that the basic objectives of the investment funds law and the management companies of the 2001 CISDU were met. However, the warnings of the professions and the opposition of the time, under the influence of large capital representatives, gave way. Let me say that it is also a matter of public hearing that one of the reasons that this so-called Squeakle Law has been amended by the Ministry of Finance is also relatively late because those who control the shares today are the legal successors of the pids and do not want to create them on the organised market of the Ljubljana Stock Exchange, are also trying to use officials to make arrangements or exceptions to enable them to transform the current share society into regular d.o.o., so to speak, to achieve exactly the opposite goal, such as protecting and maintaining as many small shareholders as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. Mr. Stane Pike has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u26	Thank you, for your word. Greetings to all present. I listened carefully to the presentations of the groups of Members, and there was already much to learn from this. I cannot support this amendment because this amendment, if adopted, brings the law back to its current or worse form. Even smaller, even more fog, and this means that a small shareholder is unprotected and cannot sell those shares that could otherwise be sold on the market. I can tell you that I am also one of those injured people who sold at a substantially lower price than I could possibly have. When we look at those who bought directly from certain stock companies, they grew on average, I can say at least 10 times their price went up in peds, although the advertising and promotion of this was completely different at the time, so that it would be a safer investment due to dispersion. I also believed that this would be a safe, fair investment, in dispersion, but it didn't happen. There were a lot of small shareholders cheated. And of course, one would continue to do so, gladly. Of course I'm against it. I can't support that kind of thing. It is right to adopt now, to improve the law, even though it is too late. Such a law would have to be adopted when the first irregularities occurred and when it first came to a standstill. About ten years ago. Now we're not putting out the fires anymore, but there's some gritty crane out there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u28	It is important to be very careful, Mr Pike, when you read and read the laws and read the reasons of the Government. First, it is necessary to read very clearly why the transfer of assets to a new investment company, why conditions that either require it or even allow it in some way. Because it doesn't matter, we're in a society that says that the rule of law is to be respected, but of course the rule of law gives investors an opportunity. The dilemma is very simple. Let's have a look at this pid. One pid was taken over. This pid is the owner of a major company. If this is a closed investment company, then you as a small shareholder are kind of said without any right. But if the creation of this pid is either into a new investment company or into a mutual fund, which is possible under this law, then you have some rights. But if you're going to tell the pid, you just have to become a public stock company, and then a whole bunch of other provisions of the GDD, which will be the basis for this pid to say, this law is unconstitutional. And the ship, the caravan will move on. This is the purpose of these amendments by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. First, it must be said that the previous Government has done its job. The former government did its job, gave it to the National Assembly. Here, however, the coalition of Members, Mr Anderlič, Mr Pohorec, Mr Vizjak and several other Members, sent him to the first reading, contrary to the wishes of the then government, if you even want the then coalition, but then the SLS went out, DeSUS was in half. Why? Because, of course, it was the desire of the then and then formed pids to reduce this further from then on the current size of the small shareholders. That's what this is about. And now, by rejecting the amendment, you will only lead the matter to the Constitutional Court. That's all that's gonna happen. Nothing else. And even in this 170, 150 thousand small shareholders, there will be no rights. But in the meantime, big things are happening, I'm not going to say, lumbarity, because people are acting rationally. It is perfectly rational for managers who, at the time of the legislation given, allow what we have challenged in the Constitutional Court at the insurance company Triglav. We disputed that the administration, which wanted to become a major shareholder of the Triglav Insurance Company, would give a guarantee to the banks of its share. That's allowed now. And that's what's happening now. Take a look at Monday's paper, with all due respect to Mr. Vinet Kordez, Prime Minister of the Mercury administration, he behaves rationally. If he's allowed to take over with Griffin Mercury, he'll take over. Banks give him credit, and they give him that credit with some kind of guarantee. You are the amendment to the takeover law, which would prohibit what the Constitutional Court did in the case of the Triglav Insurance Company, in the National Assembly. And now big management takeovers are taking place. There's no problem if these management acquisitions happen without setting up future assets. But that's what's happening today. And so do those Pidi. In another story. One pid, one authorised company, and one DZU, one large company, and one president of the Supervisory Board, etc., who says that he will now be in some so-called, as you said, third phase of privatisation. There's no problem in having a third phase of privatisation. But let's do it with our own money, not with money, with a guarantee of shares we don't even have yet. And the story of the law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies as it is now set up leads to the Constitutional Court, so that these 170 thousand small shareholders will simply be cheated. Just as we will see in the property change law today that you intend to do the same for the 750 thousand insurance companies of the Triglav Insurance Company. Now, if you understand this, okay, but if you don't understand this, then at least don't directly read what the Government tells you, because the Government doesn't tell you that this law will simply establish an unconstitutional state by crossing the third and fourth chapters. That's what we're talking about. Once again, I propose that the President, if the Government also takes advantage of its option and says more than what they have written in the justifications of the law or in the justification of the amendment to the law, because this argument does not, in fact, hold up and poses many problems in the enforcement of this law. One last sentence. It is usually true that when amendments are written to the law that these amendments do not violate the purpose of the law, and in the interpretation of the law is one of the fundamental if you want, the reasons and the main solutions of the bill, also to determine the obligation of the legal successor of the pistachios, to either reduce market property or allocate it by transferring it to a newly established investment company. So, this is not even the law of me anymore as the first-signed and five other Members, but it has become one, I will call it the Bayuk-Vision mixture, the Vision because he allowed with the Big takeover Act and the Bayuk because he does not understand exactly what is happening in the financial instruments market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Pike, you want a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u30	Sure. I can only say to my colleague Squill that I will always put myself on the side of the weaker one, because the fact that big ones have all the options and are taking advantage of legal aid and so on and so on and the small one is very difficult. That's the first thing. Second thing. Math is clear to me, and no philosophy here helps. If mathematics shows that, say, you sold a share of pida was ten times smaller or twenty times smaller than the average of one company if you bought a share of the company. And here's the next thing I need to stress again. He's acting like a constitutional judge, and he knows how to get rid of the verdicts. I don't understand that either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u31	Mr. Cyril Testen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Well, as far as the previous government is concerned, she's done her job. I fully agree, she tried to do her work very late and in a way and with the intention of not ending it. I think that this work should have been done substantially, substantially earlier. But I'd like to say the following. We, in our parliamentary group, as far as chapters 3 and 4 are concerned, will not support these SD amendments. We have had this whole story, as we repeat it now, on the Committee on Finance, and we know how it ended and ended. I think it's pointless to repeat it again in exactly the same form. However, we will not support these amendments because we believe that some small shareholders may also be harmed by the separation of property, especially in cases where a portion of the property that is best and that those who remain would certainly lose at the value of their shares would be separated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u33	And Mr. Lucky Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about protecting small shareholders, we need to be very careful in this house. Because I defended them because I was sued in court. Of course, this amendment makes perfect sense if we are talking in the context of how to prevent possible fraud. Look, tycoon grabbing property that was once social, and now, in a fraudulent way, acquired into the hands of individuals, is really done in most cases. However, there are still some pearls, I will say, in the ownership structure very complex to wrap in some cellophane, such as Slovenian Railways, General Navigation, not to mention major state-owned companies, not to list all. And we witnessed days ago that the biggest robbery took place in front of the entire Slovenian public. The greatest robbery of the century, I could call it. We sold general shipping to a foreigner who illegally acquired ownership, to the share of small shareholders. Of course, in the rehabilitated company, which has been rehabilitated by tax money on the basis of a specially adopted law, a respected Member and Members, specially adopted by law in this National Assembly in 1994, you have decided that you will spend $75 million for the General Navigation and set up an authorised company, according to a government decision. This company was established solely because small shareholders did not receive wages or workers better said, seafarers. These shares were sold by Mr Zevnik, who became a unionist director of the company of Commissioners, Mr Doehle from under the table, uncontrollable. And this gentleman today is in charge of the General Navigation and this gentleman has been allowed to purchase by constantly changing the terms of the sale of 29% of the share. Last time we landed at the auction, and you know what those conditions were, because I have time, I'll tell them. That's a great director for a good movie. I believe one day he'll be filmed. First, it was made under tendering conditions to require all auctioneers to give EUR 4 million if they wish to obtain documentation. This has been done by both domestic economic operators and Mr Doyle, the mentioned tycoon, who is charged with lawsuits around the world. And, of course, the first offers arrived. The Court and Kad, which are in total denial of decision-making, since Mr Doyle manages the company with a 20% stake until then, of course, today has a majority, have changed the terms and called on the auctioneers to submit an addition to the offer, even here we were Slovenian economists or the Slovenian economy was the best in the offer. Later, gentlemen demanded a guarantee for the full purchase of the stake, not more than 29%, but for the full purchase that the Court and Kad have been overtaken. And again, 90 million guarantees have been issued to all those who first applied for auctions. And since we were the best in the offer, despite the Minister's promise that the best bidder would get the General Sailing, the Court and Kad decided further to go to auction. And the auctioneers had to present the normal price of the highest auction, the maximum amount they would auction. And you know what else has happened, even though we have owners who have a larger equity share - I will not mention the company because of the advertising that I don't do to anyone - who asked for five times, has a 25% share to take a look at society in the General Sailing. Before the auction, the Court and Kad replied that this was not possible. Under tendering conditions, these same owners or representatives of state property require that the auctioneers be familiar with the business situation in the company. That was a condition. If this isn't a crime, ladies and gentlemen, then what is a crime? While this Mr. Doyle was collecting extra profits, he was marketing all the ships on his lists, and so on, that the ships were resold first to the Doha weather, then back to the General Navigation and so on. That he threw all the sailors into the sea on the road. We have a statement that it has been identified that only the first and second officers will be able to be Slovenian and the second, of course, from Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore. And that's what we support today. We lost a national shipman. We put Slovenian ships in Germany's hands. This German, and this is a paradox, is above all a representative of small shareholders because he bought 20% of the stake in the company of the authorising officer. See, that's what you do. That's what you do. I have written to all the addressees, to Mr Kos, who has done nothing to criminals, all agree that it is a crime, the prosecution, the Court of Auditors - all that it is a great fraud and that there will be a boycott, because the deal is paid and this, says New Slovenia, also Mr. Minister has been called on my side to say exactly how much New Slovenia has received for this deal, and he said, "When I go to dinner with my wife's bill," some third answered me. There's nothing we can do but go to an international court to find justice there. What happened just a few days ago is pure bullshit, ladies and gentlemen. And you're talking about protecting small shareholders. The following are Slovenian railways. The auditors of German railways are already in the process of reviewing the business system, they're already reviewing the documents, this government is already making a deal, I don't know who is going to sell it to Germany. We have our economy, which is very strong, which could pool its capital, surplus capital into so-called mixed companies, trusts and companies. If, I speculate, Luka Koper bought the General Sailing, these ships would drive to our port, give work to our freight forwarders, give added value to our companies, and in short, profit would be generated here. These ships of general voyage will never see our port again. That's what we do. We sell out. Interestingly, Mr Bandelj, who says that Mr Doyle is the all-powerful savior, Mr Doyle was in this company in 1991, and in 1994, we saved this company with a significant tax share, and again in 1998 this company fell and again this savior was here, sold the ships to him and back, took the General Sailing. You see, no one has reviewed this contract, but before the company was sold, we should do so under the current legislation, without any amendments, such as we are now accepting to protect small shareholders. Even Mr Doyle wrote in writing that he would not accept Slovenian seafarers on his ship and that he did not come into the General Navigation to solve the social problem. For all the credit arrangements he arranged, normally everyone went through it, even in a business report they wrote that he owed him millions of dollars because he brokered loans for the General Navigation. What are we going to do, ladies and gentlemen? You allowed the shares of Triglav, former rulers, namely LDS and those you were in power at the time, which enabled you to enrich all the modern-day rich in Slovenia, these tycoons who are stealing what is left today, you allowed them to shop in such a way that in fact every Westerner is funny. And today, if there was any legal order in our country, the assets of these gentlemen should be reviewed and censored. In the West, it's perfectly normal to be asked how you got so much wealth. Look, you were talking about the Triglav Insurance Company earlier. We all know how these shares were bought, how Mrs Klemenčičeva bought it. At the bank, she set up unpurchased shares to get a loan. Please! That's what everyone else who has today's fabulous sums on banks has done. If it's not a crime, if it's not a crime, then what's a crime?Oh, my God! While you're giving the workers an envelope of 70 grand to survive! 70 thousand, I speak in Tolars, not in euros, that no one will think that I speak in euros. But the bill is for 90 in the family. And there's something else I'd like to tell you that you're full of honesty. As long as you allow this, here, in this hall, of course, I distance myself from such conclusions, what is happening will happen - new poverty will be born. Remember, in the country, you have 40,000 poor people and almost 100,000 unemployed, because I don't believe in this reduced unemployment rate. The government brought it down in a simple way to call everyone who was in the office on the phone, and the one who didn't show up has been erased from the list. This is how I can increase my employment. And as long as this is happening, ladies and gentlemen, we are not social, we are not legal, but even less a state that guarantees minimum rights. We're not, and the unions are getting more and more right. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, they will come here, asking us, you, and, of course, the government for their health. What you're saying is nonsense, facts are different. Maybe we can't understand those who have to survive with this money, but most people fight for survival because of these things. The companies we had that were once flowering, we sold into the hands of foreigners. Look what happened to the tobacco factory! Bought and closed another day! Has anyone been responsible for this? Nobody! Not to say what happened to Tam, not to say what happened to Ztorog. Not to say what happened in my place, in Sežana, when we closed the Bretenina, Istria, Crassus Metal, in short, all the factories. Everything that was good was closed because, of course, it had to be sold. But it was bought by those who have the money to essentially destroy their competition in a sophisticated way, that's what you do. And what's happening today is true, I agree with Mr Pajk, maybe there's another crane that's laying, and that pearl has to be robbed now, and I'm not talking about shutting down, I'm talking about those pearls that are still in the crane. And from this city I tell you that you will soon witness the next big place, these will be Slovenian railways. At that time, I hope that I will have a legal judgment from the court, as I say, for defending small shareholders in a perfectly legitimate and legal manner. At that time, this lawsuit will probably be already in force and I hope that the court will be destroyed as well, of course, this is a post-festus of all that the prosecution will now perish and start looking a little bit at the insides of this company, if everything is not already destroyed, what was meant to be destroyed in the documentation. Until then, pick up what's left, let's do it quickly, time's running out, you know.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u35	Anybody else want a word? Check-in is on. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! I apologize, Mr President, I will not discuss the contents of the amendments, but I would like to remind my fellow Member, Happy Friends, that speaking without evidence is a matter of money that New Slovenia seems to have received in the sale of general navigation, Mr Friend, indecisively and anything else, and I will not use ugly words in this House because I advocate that we only have to use appropriate words here. You get so much knowledge and so much intellectual potential that if you have evidence, for God's sake, did you give it to the police, you gave it to the law enforcement authorities? I'd like to, I'd really like these things cleared up. If we are talking about sales commissions, I assure you that Nova Slovenije is not next to it. The list of state companies run by Nova Slovenije will be difficult to make a list. We are in favour of the State withdrawing from the economy as soon as possible, this is what we are defending, and this sale was not the idea of one head or the sale of another state property, it was an expertise, not least recently, I was talking to the Director of Soda, the purchase for this sale was extraordinary, above expectations, so we are not talking about the findings of this very gentleman, the Finance Minister, that he had a really good nose at the beginning of 2005, is said as soon as he sat in the ministerial chair when he found that it was a fraud or a possibility of damaging some 60 billion Slovenian tollars of Slovenian property only to the insurance company Triglav. Your Honor, if you have any evidence, call the police, give them the evidence. No, please, not to mention that some client cashed in a commission or how you wanted to talk about it. I am in favour of fair play and I am first in favour of clarifying, if there are any irregularities, if necessary here in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I would warn you, I have given you my word that we stick to this article, this is chapter three, the amendment of the SD Group of Members, but I allow a replica to Mr Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u38	Thank you very much. It is more urgent that I tell my respectable colleague in answer. We had criminals for four fat hours, in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. They've been given material, but I'm not in a position to judge before it's judged. That's why we have courts. But I've said it nicely, boy, it's talk, and that's why there's evidence, be sure. But this our judgment will not reveal them, because you are confounded so that you can no longer be. That's why we're going to press charges, I've already told you, to the International Economic Court. That's where this dirty laundry is going to be washed. That someone who has represented workers, if you are not clear, has confused you, the representative of small shareholders, the owner of the authorised company, has confused the workers on the road, and on top of everything else is a foreigner, has come to a stake under the counter and this is sold to him by a trade unionist of this stock, who is entrusted to this company by the authorising officer, but that does not tell you enough. Minister, your minister is in this National Assembly to me personally, a magnetogram can be obtained in 5 minutes, claimed that the best bidder gets the General Sailing. The best bidder wasn't Mr. Doehle. Why did you always change those conditions in Kad and Sod? Then why did you go to the auction in the end? I asked him: How can only one of the government's representatives always go to this house for all official visits? Interestingly, Mr Bayuk asked the President of the Government at the time, as I am now asking him. And the answers are turning into a cellophane. They will also come, I will say, clear judgments, assumptions will become facts, and then you will be no longer in Parliament, you will see.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate the fourth chapter and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. I'm asking you to sign up. Check-in is on. Mr. Mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u40	Very briefly. The government and the coalition will oppose an amendment that allows the creation of a mutual fund. The purpose of the mutual fund is very clear that everyone, including Mr. Member, who is a shareholder, gets something out of this, but not that "potential large shareholders" get everything. What is the problem with this story we have in Slovenia? The original sin of what is also happening with, of course, the General Navigation, with Mercury, Lip Bled, tomorrow Istrabenz is in takeover legislation. In the takeover legislation, Mr Member, the leader of the New Slovenia Group, who did not prevent companies from taking over funding, is a problem. This takeover legislation, gentlemen, has been adopted by you in this mandate on the proposal of Minister Visiak. The European Directive clearly prohibits financial benefits for the company of takeover, and you have prevented an amendment that explicitly prohibits what was prohibited at the time when the takeover of the Triglav Insurance Company was prevented. Managers behave rationally, we're just working with society differently. The fact that, of course, was the first move of this government that instead of 50 % of the taxation of capital gains introduced 20% of the taxation, of course, is only an additional economic reason for people to go there. As you know, there is usually some risk of taking over, if the takeover premium is between 50% and 60% and you have to pay 50% of the profits, the difference is very small. However, if 20% of the tax is to be paid, of course there is a lot to be done. If bankers can even finance this and the government proposes to recapitalise these bankers from state money, but the circle is concluded and I say, today we are talking about how the creation of the economic elite is not prevented in Slovenia, how it is encouraged. And the fact that you don't support an amendment that creates mutual funds and divides it among all, so many and so many small shareholders, you act, those who are still small shareholders, pids, against yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u41	Mr. Bogdan Barovich, please. [[The ad in the hall: "Replica!"]] Please, Mr. Horvath, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. Of course, I trust this government more than Mr. Squill. The Slovenian public, at least the majority, is certainly the same. We all know, Mr Squeakl speaks much, he says little, but his predictions have been so wrong in this mandate that I really have no reason to support his amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u43	Mr. Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I think that at the beginning of the presentation of the views of the members of the groups we have expressed a united desire to at least protect those small shareholders, the percentage left behind. I think we've all been of the same opinion. And that is why, of course, we also had the will to say that, despite being late, that, as I say again, it has already been stolen, which has been stolen, we will say, right, let us protect - with the goal, once again, I say, with the aim of protecting. But in case we don't accept Chapter 4, it's actually pointless to accept this law, because the path will go in the same direction as it has gone so far without law. It means, if we don't have a mutual fund - reciprocity means that we're mutual to each other - that we're going to spread out what it is, that each one of us will have something if we go through Chapter 4, that only big shareholders will pick up again, and that's what's been going on for four, five, six, seven years! Then why this marriage? Really, I'm asking why this law, if we don't at least accept for the part that's left, reciprocity, so that the dispersion is that everyone, at least the others, will have some of it. Really, come on! If we don't accept it, then there's no need for law, no need to worry about it, because the way goes as far as it goes -- big shareholders and rich people will steal what it is. Because it's the intention that it's all going to the big shareholders now. Come on, guys, let's be a little serious in this National Assembly! If we defend reciprocity, if we defend the protection of those few small shareholders left behind, then we must accept Chapter 4. To the extent that our purpose is not serious, then the purpose of the government that prepared this law is a shame to waste time and government and to me here in this hall until one in the morning. It doesn't matter that we're wasting this time. And if you don't mind, I'd just like to give you an answer, because Mr. Lucky can't talk anymore. I would answer that there is Mr Vuk, who is of the species of New Slovenia and has taken over, I think that Javor, Pivko and Novoles and, of course, received a lot of State aid. This is just one case, a concrete case in answer. I'm in charge instead of a respected colleague. Thank you very much. So, fellows, let's be fair, let's be honest, let's take chapter four! Let's protect the little thing that's left to spread, divide it up that everyone has one of these. And let's not go on that path that we've taken, but I'm not saying that only this one, including the previous government, absolutely, that we've led it to the place of the century, if I can call it that, but I'm sure that it's - the exploitation of poor old women and unknown people, that they steal and steal everything they've earned with their work in some past system.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u45	Thank you. Check-in is on, again. Mr. Mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u46	I would ask the Government to tell us why it deleted chapter three and fourth.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u47	Mr. Rudolf Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. So, this topic, especially this amendment, is really a paradise for misinformation and accusation, and maybe something well-intentioned, but it's really ideal. Look, we could've heard about some takeover legislation before. Listen, since takeover legislation did not come two years ago or one year ago, takeover legislation or takeover legislation, or whatever else, has existed since the country was formed, even then acquisitions, purchases, ownership or anything. So, respected colleagues who are talking about it and I am now, it was some process, it was some process, it was some process, the legislation was changing, but now we have the last version adopted by this government. And now to talk, but this is exactly what this government, all that happened before, it's not going to work out, so maybe I'd remind you a little bit about this thing, who wanted to sell Triglav for half the price, and now some court that was dealing with this, found that it was actually meant to sell under the table, and I'm not going to say that someone wanted to steal anything, but it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was agreed, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's just, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's It turns out the Minister of Finance was right, and say that again. And on the other hand, I'd like to ask you, what was the sale of Bank Koper? I don't suppose you're going to say that Dr. Bayuk had anything to do with this because I don't even know if he was here. He had nothing, and that's what happened. And today it is no longer in Slovenian hands, it went straight into some other hands, but I will not argue that there was anything wrong with having the bank do well if people are satisfied with the services, okay, in foreign hands and the bank is doing well. I'd also like to ask how this muttering happened then for this famous and sung SIB bank, so I'm embarrassed to mention that name. And you're not gonna say that Dr. Bayuk or this government had anything to do with it. I wouldn't count anymore because it's a waste of time. If I go back to this amendment. Today we hear, I don't know, maybe a thousand times now, but if you don't accept this amendment, we're giving you the chance to solve this to get the government out of trouble, then everything will be fine, but if we don't accept this amendment, it'll be completely wrong. And, Your Honor, I think that the proposer, too, is one of the reasons that I will not be this amendment, but only one, not the most important one, because you've already wasted a lot of things on us, how disastrous it will be if we don't accept your solutions. Of course, if we do not accept some things, VAT will increase, it will be catastrophic in 2008. Now we know that's not true at all. Then the sustainability of public finances will be completely flawed, everything will be wrong, and it is not at all true. Everything you predicted would be catastrophic was the other way around. And on the other hand, to conclude, I would say, in our country, we're really lucky, the government is doing all the stupid things, the catastrophic things are changing, but we have, look at the fraction, 7% economic growth. And that must be good luck. In catastrophic situations, we have 7% growth. Yeah, how nice it would be if we didn't have catastrophic laws, if we didn't accept such stupid things. While you're reminding us of others how it would have been, maybe we'd have 20%, but that's probably not it. On the other hand, as regards State aid, ladies and gentlemen, I would only remind you of one good case of State aid. Maybe we used to criticize him a little bit, maybe we saw him a little differently, but he turned out to be good. I would like to mention state aid to Renault in New Town to build a new programme. The state put it there, it committed itself in the previous term, and that government had to do that. But I think it's a good thing, and I know a few other cases where the country will also give foreign companies assistance to open up new jobs, and that new programmes will be here, not those where only the physical workforce, the unskilled, will be required. And that will continue. I think that some fundamental stone will be laid in such a case for a short time, and the matter is good. That doesn't mean the money's thrown away. If new jobs are opening up and I just mentioned Renault because we all know him. I won't mention others, because maybe someone here might find some kind of negative accent or some negative connotation, but I don't want that. Renault is a very good case, an excellent case. This is said to be not all bad if the state gives aid, but if these are foreign companies, they're probably private companies. Some, Renault is something state-owned, and some, it's called mixed property. So it's not all bad and also that recommendation that if we don't accept this amendment, everything will be wrong, I'm afraid it won't be so. And if it is as it has been so far that we will have, due to such bad solutions that the government is supposed to accept, 7% of the growth continues or if it is a little lower, it will still be okay, everything will be O. K. and I think that's where he's going. As far as I'm concerned, now I'm really gonna finish, and I'm not talking about stealing. Sorry, that's what happened. There's no other way to help. It's where it is. I think that this government is still at least "deserving" in the places that have happened in Slovenia, but the consequences have already been made, and this is also part of this government that we have such economic growth. What is, we have tried to put in the best possible light and out of it the most, and I think that this economic growth is some result of what has been done here, and I think it is doing very well and, of course, I continue to trust that this government will do well because we cannot have better results. We simply cannot have them, so of course I will support the basic proposal supported by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u49	Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. Mr. Mag. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u50	Again, let the Government explain why it has deleted chapter three and chapter four, all of which, of course, you are talking about the great results of this government and you are mentioning Renault; of course, people from economic growth obviously cannot live, so this is confidence in the government. This is not exactly consistent with high economic growth. As for Renault, I would be very happy if one such project were adopted during this government, but I do not recall that this government would bring some serious investor. You even drove the investors away, which is why we're going to have to invest taxpayers' money in one bank tomorrow. That's what you do. So, again, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - why delete chapter 3 and chapter 4?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr Vice President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u52	Mr. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u53	We have already identified ourselves on this issue. We have held a debate on the committee, so that more than what we have already said on the committee would be difficult to say. I can simply reiterate that we believe that, in essence, this proposed disposal of smaller market and liquid assets would not be necessarily in the interests of small shareholders in itself, as this leads to further fragmentation of companies and this could, in fact, also mean the continued unforeseeable development of these companies, and if this were to be separated, only a healthy, liquid part of the assets could be allocated to a new society. Then we could also have lower company liquidity and, of course, higher costs for a small shareholder, which is essentially contrary to the basic proposal of this law, so that, indeed, something other than what we have already said in the Committee's consideration would not be to be added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I would like to warn you that we are discussing the fourth chapter and the amendment of the SD Group of Members. Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Actually, I'm going to take a call about a discussion by my colleague, Mr. Wikel, who earlier stressed that he doesn't know any cases after Renault to support the government's investment in new jobs and that my colleague, the Vice President, is not here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u56	Mr Jerovšek, about the amendment, chapter four, I would ask.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u57	I'll tie up. Just like he used to. I must say this because Mirka Zammernika, because I happen to know that he has made an extraordinary effort to do so, and that tomorrow they are proposing a foundation stone for 200 jobs, and also with the support of the Government, within the framework of the calls and means for such things, and so much so that the public is actually informed. Mr Squeakl is at home from that area, and he's doing a stupid, ignorant thing, and I don't know anything about it because he doesn't want to know that the current government has positive results in this area as well. It's just that these cases are running without it, but now, if I get attached, I'm afraid I can't support this amendment because it's not going this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I'm giving you a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u59	However, I have not heard very clearly the connection except that Mr Jerovšek is against anything he proposes in this case, not Mr Svikl, but the SD Group of Members, by the way. Of course, I am very pleased that we have to get Mr Jerovsk to explain here to the National Assembly that one stone will be laid. I must say that these stones have been laid in the past much more. I am talking about a concrete contract, the extension of existing production, because, as far as I recall, my colleague Jerovšek, they will have to close jobs in the ST - Systemic techniques, because of your decisions, and there will be no new jobs in Gorenje, because you have simply lied. Calm down. Bosch Siemens has been in Nazareth since 1965.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u60	Mr. Squeakle, I would warn you that we are talking about the amendment to chapter four.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u61	I still ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia how and why you are against reciprocity, why are you against the creation of a mutual fund? Because of the fact that, of course, the problem is liquid assets, why do you not oppose the fact that the property that Pid Maksim acquired in all years of property transformation is not distributed among all the mutual members of the potential mutual fund, why do you prohibit it? I ask, of course, for a substantive explanation. I'm just saying, it's two different approaches, you're forming economic elites, and we're proposing that everyone in a fair society has something. I'm concluding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u62	Mr Squeakl, I have allowed you a replica of the performance of Mr Jerovsk and I ask you not to ask the Government any questions now. Thank you very much. If no one wants to discuss it again, would you like to discuss it again? [[...]] I'm opening a new application circuit. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u63	One second is enough for another question: Why are you against reciprocity in the division of property that is created? Contentual explanation, Government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u64	Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 24a and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. I'm asking you to sign up if anyone wants to discuss it. Mr. Rudi Veršnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u65	Thank you for your word. Well, because and because of the fear that large shareholders of shares companies, legal successors of pids, will also try to play this law, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group we support the amendments formulated at the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy meeting on 24th and 24thb of the draft law. We support the proposal to establish an asset manager institute if the administrations of current companies do not wish to place them on an organised stock market in a timely manner. However, these amendments also need to be supplemented by provisions regarding the costs of the state manager; in particular, this is about who is covering them. Powers for the State manager to obtain all the necessary information and information needed to carry out the procedures and activities necessary for the classification of shares of the pid company, as well as for the inclusion of the shares of the successor company in trading on the organised market and so on. Such an appropriate solution shall constitute the amendment of the SDS Group to Articles 24a and 24.b of the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I'm reopening the application. Mr. Mag. Squeak. Excuse me? Procedurally. Please, just really procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u67	Procedurally, I am also a bill-maker and therefore I have, as a bill-maker in accordance with a 15-minute cut, and I have applied and raised my hand as a candidate, so please allow me as a proposaler to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your explanation. I would only warn you that at the outset we should tell you what you are applying for, as an MEP or as a motioner. Time's up and I'm closing the debate. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? As a motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The amendments proposed by the SDS Group to Article 24 are acceptable to the proposer. However, the amendments proposed by the SD Group of Members are also acceptable. In fact, the dilemma that arose in the debate itself at the meeting of the parent working body was about the following. It's big assets. It's a few million euros in assets. And according to the dictatorship, as the Government has designed, of course, also related to offences and so forth, which, of course, we have had a particular dilemma or that of course, after the third and fourth chapters of the Definition of Wrong Acts were deleted, indeed in the area of offences, whether it is necessary to define it elsewhere, it is possible that we may have a situation where so-called interested parties are simply willing to pay, either 42 to 125,000 euros, and simply do not carry out all the procedures and activities in order to have shares traded on an organised market. Similarly, the responsible person would be willing to pay between €800 and €1,400. Of course, the dilemma that then arises and, of course, the SDS Group in some way solves it in accordance with the amendment is that it will now do so substantively either by the successor company or by the Securities Market Agency. And I am interested in this as a proposaler, I believe this can be the right solution, but I am interested here in the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In particular because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has so far opposed this. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not formulated such amendments. Members of the SDS have now formed them, they have been created by Members of the SD or we are Members of the SD with the first signed leader of the parliamentary group, Mr Ptræ, so I would like to hear the Government's opinion on these amendments of the SDS Group or SD. It is interesting that only the SDS Group appears here, even though it is customary for other coalition groups to invest in this together. Perhaps this is, I don't know, a new isolation in the National Assembly, but my key question is what does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia think of these amendments, so that, even if there is a potential conflict-related operation of the Securities Market Agency, we will not have any problems in the implementation of this adopted Article or the amended Article. By proposing to the President if the Government would explain the position on these two amendments. As a proposaler myself, I support these amendments and thank you very much for allowing the proposer to take advantage of the 15 minutes announced.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to answer the question of Member Milan M. Cvikl that the Government of the amendments of the SDS Group of Members supports. Short and crisp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I'm opening another round of reports. Mr. Cyril Testen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. Given that there is little time, we agree with these amendments in our parliamentary group and it is not a matter of isolation but, above all, a time absence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeaking as a proponent. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u75	I am pleased that the Government supports the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. It should be said, however, that this also provides substantive support for the SD amendment, unless the Government has said so, because the amendments are very similar to each other. I believe, however, that I do not know how the vote will then be confirmed by the amendment to Article 24a, of course, so much clearer. Second question. I suppose this will be a new amendment to Article 24.b. Are we going to discuss this separately? Okay. I'll ask you a question about the 24b article later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u76	I conclude the debate on this article, this is about 24a. Article 1(2) I'm putting 24b in the debate. Article and amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, and amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Check-in is on. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u77	The same question does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or does the amendment of the SD Group, or is it substantively similar, or has the amendment of the SDS Group been written differently? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u78	Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u79	Mr President-in-Office. The same position as in the previous amendment to Article 24a. The Government also supports the amendment to Article 24b. SDS emissaries.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u80	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u81	The only difference is that, of course, in the amendment of the SD Group of Members, we are focusing on the mandatory action of the state administrator in the amendment of the SDS Group of Members, but in some ways we have been rewritten. [[...]] My contention is that the Government's agreement with the SDS's amendment is also agreement with the SD's amendment, although I believe that this is difficult for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u82	There are no more candidates for discussion. I therefore conclude the debate by 24b. Article 1(2) The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 24th agenda or at the latest at midnight and 10 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Period of the day - that's a second defensively proposed law on the market of financial instruments. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Secretary of State, mag. It's Lavrich's brand.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! I will briefly present the reasons for the adoption of this law, which is before us today. The reason for the adoption of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments is to comply with Directive 2004/39/EC on markets in financial instruments, the so-called Mifi Directive, of Directive 2004/109/EC on the harmonisation of transparency requirements for information on issuers whose securities are classified in the trading on organised markets. In short, it's called a transparent directive. And new directives on capital matters and risk management, namely Directive 2006/48/EC and Directive 2006/49/EC, to the extent that they apply to investment firms. The transposition of these two directives into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia requires more extensive changes, so we have decided to write a new law in full. Some of the more important innovations set out in those Directives introduced by this law of the ZTFI, which is before you today: the expansion of legally regulated trading platforms from self-organised markets also to multilateral trading systems or those capacities, that is, the MTF, the regulation of the day-to-day publication of data in transactions with shares before or immediately after the conclusion of transactions by stock exchanges or banks, the expansion of the range of services provided by companies, for example, additional services to current ones, such as investment advice and financial analysis, and the regulation of the marketing of the services of brokerage companies, we are thinking in particular of persons who manage investment firm promotion services, customer acquisition services. On the basis of past experience, we have found that there are also some other changes in areas where the directives allow for discretion and do not deal in detail with matters, particularly in the area of the dissemination of the range of measures, the supervision of the Securities Market Agency with regard to the characteristics of infringements of legislation in accordance with the La Falucci approach at EU level. As the so-called "principle base of cross-straits" is being implemented, meaning essentially more of a manoeuvre space for action, as the law should lay down only the basic principles of business in the capital market and more competences are being given to the sub-legislative regulation of the rules of the agencies themselves, the ATVP is said to be. In short, I can also summarize the objectives of this proposal in three sets. Firstly, rules are laid down for the operation and control of stock exchanges companies. Secondly, disclosure rules are laid down for issuers of basic financial instruments offered to the public and traded in an organised market. And the rules for market operations in the management of investment services and transactions relating to financial instruments are laid down. We in the Government believe that the proposal to implement EU directives represents an important contribution to the stable functioning of the financial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u85	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! At its 28th meeting, at its 28th meeting, the Finance Committee considered the draft Law on the Market in Financial Instruments. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was obtained, where comments were made on about a dozen articles, since the law has 590 articles. Most of these comments were also taken into account and accepted in the amendments of the Committee, which are listed in this report. Additional material was provided to the Committee by the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia of 14.6.2007, the amendment proposals of the Ljubljana Stock Exchange d.d. of 20.6.2007, amendment proposals of the Association of Securities Exchange Members of 21.6.2007 and letter dated 22.6.2007 from the lawyers Dužan, Vidmar and Zemlarič of 22.6.2007 During the business period, qualified investors did not table amendments. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legislative Service, the Securities Market Agency, the Association of Securities Exchange Members. The proposed law is necessary, in order to comply with the European legal order and to regulate the securities market in a new way, as we have already heard. The main debate was on Articles 479 to 487 and on the proposed amendments. These Articles relate to the regulation of the position of the Securities Market Agency, the annual report on its work, the conditions for the Director and the member of the Board of the Agency, the public tenders for the appointment of the Director and the reasons for the early discharge of the Director of the Agency. As stated above, the Committee has adopted a series of amendments which are incorporated into the amended bill proposed to this National Assembly for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Please, Mr Bogdan Barovic, present the position of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In my seven-year history of work in the National Assembly, I have met many times, in all seven years, with difficulties in drafting laws with about as many articles as this one and have always had problems especially five, six years ago when the billmaker wanted to amend the laws, which is why I am and the Slovenian National Party is extremely pleased that, among the reasons given by the applicant in this law, there is a reason for the adoption of the new law to comply with the regulation of directives of the European Union. In particular, I welcome, this time, the Government's conclusion that the transfer of this regulation to the law of the Republic of Slovenia is so extensive that it requires that the reform of the law is meaningless and that it is more transparent if this transposition of the current Law on the Market in Securities into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia is regulated by a new law, so I welcome this move. [[...]] It is true, however, that the law is very extensive and in this regard I would ask for a short reply from the representatives of the Government in the light of the provisions of Article 589 of the last article, which states the beginning of the application of the law for us who are simply reading the laws, which has several different chapters that start in different periods, somewhat inexorably. The first chapter, or part, which is due to enter into force on 1 November 2007. However, it is not clear from this review, this last article, when, in fact, we intend to fully adopt this law. This 589, the last article is somewhat unclear to me because it speaks of the different application of individual chapters of this law, and nowhere does it speak of when the law should be fully adopted. In view of this, it is estimated that it will be adopted before 1 November, and I hope that, given its scope, it is so well prepared that there will not be much debate. The only content that is mentioned and, of course, I would also like to hear, or I think it is right to hear - but we will understand from the magnetogram later - why is the first point of Article 178 still at issue for the Legislative and Legal Service? It is the provision of investment services and the business of investment firms in the Member States and it is said that Member States providing investment services and transactions in the Republic of Slovenia are subject to the provisions of Chapter 7 of this Act to the extent that it is transposed into the Slovenian legal order by the provisions of Directive 2004/39/EC. Clearly, in the opinion of the Legislative Service, despite the amendments being corrected, this first point of Article 178 remains unclear. It would also be good to have this alignment with the Law-Legal Service in such an important and extensive law, and I have heard that large lobbyists of indirect houses should visit the Minister of the Economy or the Ministry of Economy with the thesis that Article 35 should reverse the functions of independent brokers, so of course I would like to ask the representatives of the Government; for I also say, if we do not otherwise understand through the Magnetogram; clarifying what this means, why these lobbyists are visiting the Ministry of the Economy and what they want to say about the so-called overlap between the rights of independent brokers. As has already been said, colleagues and colleagues, it is right that the law has been rewritten by adapting the European Directive, is extensive, I am convinced that it is harmonised, that it will therefore bring its objective to secure and maintain a solid economy and, of course, we do not have any problems in the Slovenian National Party with this bill going into further procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Yelen. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u89	Thank you for saying that again. The Law on the Market in Financial Instruments means the regulation of the capital market, which needs to be adapted to European standards in the Slovenian legal order. The Financial Instruments Markets Directive and the Implementation Directive are two sets of rules that are the basis for the coordination and establishment of a common European securities market, where competition and equal opportunities in the field of business and a high level of investor protection are highlighted. Only amending the Securities Markets Act would cause difficulties due to impreciseness, so the introduction of large-scale amendments and additions in this area justify the adoption of a new law. The provision of services and transactions in the market for financial instruments must be first and foremost regulated in a comprehensive and transparent manner, in view of the fact that investors are provided with all the necessary information about the financial instruments and their issuers that condition their decisions to enter the investment. The integrity of the capital market requires trading to be done in an orderly and fair manner. In the Market in Financial Instruments Act, transparency over business is ensured by the rules governing the operation of stock-remediating companies, which constitute a novelty and transfer of the requirements of the European Union. The business of stock brokering companies must take place safely, in accordance with the principle of due diligence and efficiency. It is therefore important that the operating rules are laid down so that the company can successfully carry out the risk it may be exposed to and that investor confidence can be justified, with effective supervision of the business itself, and with a view to allowing for the efficient and stable functioning of the market requiring the soundness of the financial system in the Republic of Slovenia. We estimate that the Ministry of Finance has taken due account of all European standards and requirements in this area when preparing this comprehensive law and that the law can therefore be confirmed. After all, it is also necessary to approve the law because the adoption of this law is delayed, since the directives should be transposed into national law by 31 January of this year. The period until 1 November when the provisions of the Directive are to apply, i.e. for a period of 9 months, was intended for financial market participants to adapt to the new rules. This time period will be much shorter due to a backlog in the transposition of the directive. We will, of course, support the law in the Group of Members, but at the same time we hope that the short time available to businesses will not affect the success of adapting the new legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mrs Polonca Dobrajc will present the position of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u91	Dear President, distinguished fellow Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! I will not repeat the reasons and objectives of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, as they have been explained in detail by both the proposer and the president of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. However, as the bill will contribute to greater legal certainty in financial transactions and also to greater stability in the functioning of the financial market, we will support the proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Today should be a holiday in the National Assembly for investors in the Slovenian Securities Exchange. The stock market index is fantastic, and today we are adopting a very fat marriage. I regret that the Minister of Finance is not with us. He probably hasn't, as it is called, given up on yesterday's talks at Ecofin and is on today's important visits to the Savina region. That's also a possible decision. However, it would be good to have a minister with us who is responsible for the capital market. Minister responsible for the operation of the capital market, the operation of banks, the operation of insurance companies. In order to be able to discuss today, in the presence of this law, at least once, if this has not already been possible on the Committee on Finance, its vision, as enshrined in this Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, could be discussed today. Unfortunately, time does not allow for the necessary discussion of all 500 plus the articles of this law. The coalition has decided, and you have also heard a very brief debate today by the representative of the largest parliamentary group that there can be no debate on this law, so no substantive amendment has been adopted on the working body. Even if there were some very important proposals. I will focus on just one issue of control on the issue of regulation in Slovenia, if you want, the financial market. Banka Slovenije, members of the Council of Banka Slovenije have statutory independence and is expected to be experts in legal, financial matters. And that's what we have. Although it was difficult to find such a governor who was also acceptable to the coalition, we know that he was found. The Insurance Supervisory Agency has its own council and law, the Insurance Act, that members of this Council are experts in law, insurance, finance. Well, when we received an amendment from the Association of Securities Exchange Members from the home labour body to also get a proposal from the Securities Markets Agency's expert council to decide on important disputes because they question billions of euros in assets of Slovenians and Slovenk, to be a member of the expert board of finance or economic law, the coalition said, "Oh, no," enough to be called by the Government and enough to have a university education. With all due respect for the historical, philosophical, cultural, theological and other professions, but the Securities Market Act is a financial, economic issue, which is also determined and regulated by law by the National Assembly. Therefore, it is good and also comparable to other supervisory institutions of Banka Slovenije, the Insurance Supervisory Agency, in order to be an expert in finance or economic law. Today I wanted to ask the Minister of Finance, who is a doctor, if I am not mistaken, of the so-called economy of agriculture, what he thinks of this as the main, most responsible financier, the most responsible or yet not the Expert Council of the Securities Market Agency should have inside such experts, but decided that he will not be here today. The law is complicated, it will be harder and even more complicated to implement it and much will depend on the professional world. The government has decided that, otherwise, they will be called, in narration, experts, but will be politically appointed and obviously from the so-called professions known so far, unfortunately there will be no financial or economic professions. We will not oppose the law in the SD Group of Members, but we would like the Government to answer our questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Ministry, Members of Parliament! A new comprehensive Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, replacing the Securities Markets Act, is needed for the transposition of a number of directives and for this reason a number of amendments. Given the scope of the changes in all key areas of the financial instruments market, the regulation of almost all the chapters of the current Securities Market Act should be amended, so the Ministry's decision to prepare a new law is correct and we support it in the New Slovenia Group. It is a matter of compliance with the four Directives. The Law on the Market of Financial Instruments, which we support in the New Slovenia Group, brings a number of innovations, among which we believe are very important: the expansion of legally regulated trading platforms from organised markets also to multilateral trading systems, the expansion of the range of services of stock brokering companies also to investment advice and financial analysis, the regulation of the day-to-day publication of information on transactions with shares before or immediately after the conclusion of the business by stock-mediating companies or banks. The objectives pursued by the law are also important. The objectives of the bill are: to lay down clear rules on the operation and control of stock exchanges companies, ensuring the appropriate conditions and efficient and safe operation of stock exchanges companies; to lay down very precise rules on the disclosure of data on issuers of financial instruments offered to the public and traded in an organised market; and to establish prudential rules for the provision of investment services and other transactions relating to financial instruments. In New Slovenia we are aware of the importance of regulating the financial instruments market. In our view, the new Law on the Market in Financial Instruments contributes significantly to the stability of the functioning of the financial instruments market, which is also very important for the stability of the entire financial system of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also important that the market for financial instruments be uniformly regulated throughout the European Union by transposing directives. For these reasons, we will support this law in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Christian Janc, position of the SLS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u97	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on the market in financial instruments regulates an important area currently covered by the applicable Securities Market Act. The area of financial instruments among which the most well-known bonds and shares have been evolving rapidly recently and at the same time changing. All countries are working to ensure an efficient and, in particular, transparent securities market. Even at European Union level, the area is rapidly developing, as is particularly evident from the directives of the European Union. A comprehensive regulation of the area in line with the guidelines of the European Union is also the reason for the drafting of a new law on the market in financial instruments. In particular, the proposed law follows many directives on capital requirements and risk management in the workplace, where it relates to stock exchanges, the Market in Financial Instruments Directive and the Transparency Requirements Directive concerning information on issuers whose securities are placed on an organised market. The opinions of the Directives already show that there is a key issue in the functioning of the financial system, in particular the availability of information and risk reduction. Managing the risks that apply to stock exchanges or investment firms today is increasingly frequent and more important. On the one hand, this is mainly due to globalisation and increasingly active financial markets, and on the other hand, the reason for a clearer regulation of the area is the collapse of some of the major shareholders, which were kept in the financial market solely on the basis of misleading information. From the perspective of Slovenia, a stable market for financial instruments is a prerequisite for the stability of the Slovenian financial system. The macro-economic functions can be successfully provided by a market that allows for the effective reallocation of funds from sub-favourable to deficient entities. The Law on the Market in Financial Instruments thus lays down rules on and supervision of stock-remediating companies. Supervisory, as everywhere, is also crucial for the legitimate functioning of these companies in stock-remediating companies. The rules on disclosure of data on the issuer of financial instruments offered to the public and traded on the market are very important. Where issuer data are not accessible and transparent, the market confidence of investors shall be reduced. However, the result of mistrust is, of course, the decline in market trade and the resulting decrease in traffic and other criteria for market activity. Although the Slovenian financial market is already very limited because of its size, our market is trying to remain competitive, particularly in the European area. It is essential, however, that we have good legislation that enables confidence in the market and consequently the stability or growth of the financial market. The proposed law, according to the Slovenian People's Party, well regulates the scope of the financial instruments market. I would not like to point out in more detail all the principles on which the proposed law is based, not least following the European Union's guidelines and is, as such, suitable for adoption. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will therefore be supported by the proposed Law on the Market of Financial Instruments, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u98	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we will have a third hearing, which is a vote on the bill, held tomorrow, Thursday, 12 July 2007, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Change Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Mag. Signa Lavrič, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u99	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the property conversion of insurance companies was approved by the Government on 17 May and forwarded to the National Assembly for consideration. Privatisation of insurance companies is governed by the Property Change Act. The law provides for legal persons, namely Kad and the Court, as beneficiaries of the holding of irregular capital and the acquisition of shares issued on unnormalised insurance capital. The laws of natural persons do not provide for beneficiaries to own irregular capital of insurance undertakings. The law only provides that specific law lays down the criteria by which natural persons will be entitled to insurance shares, pension vouchers or pension policy. In order to find a suitable solution to the problem of identifying natural persons and completing the privatisation of the Insurance Office Triglav, the Government has formed a special advisory group. The Advisory Group has prepared a report and proposes that the legal expectations of insurers, it is said, of natural persons from 1990, are not realized by individual division procedures leading to individual individual beneficiaries. The implementation of such procedures for an indicative of 750 thousand beneficiaries would be extremely demanding from a legal, logistical and professional point of view, and it would be practically impossible to specify all relevant beneficiaries in this process. The Advisory Group then proposed, in view of these existing obstacles, a solution which the Government has then summarised. It has already pointed out the number of procedures, only the time-limit for payment of the insurance premium, the problem of the existence of adequate evidence, the inclusion of the heirs of the beneficiaries of the latter, and also the amount of costs incurred in carrying out the procedure would be very high. However, and in view of all these facts, taking into account those reasons for the inability to identify natural persons beneficiaries of the unnormalised share of capital, the Government proposes deleting those provisions of the applicable Law on the Property Conversion of Insurance that are contrary to the facts set out above. Only this alignment of the provisions of the law with the real and actual situation will enable the successful privatisation of the Triglav Insurance Office. Finally, I would like to point out that the proposal for a law defining the purpose of having rights deriving from shares received by Kad under this Act follows the opinion of the advisory group, but that it is necessary to ensure that the benefit of the capital of the insurance undertaking corresponding to the share of the insured, of the natural persons in the unnormalised part of the insurance capital of the insurance undertaking will be enjoyed by such a circle of beneficiaries, which will correspond as much as possible to the widest proportion of insured persons held by the insurance undertaking or its predecessors in 1990. Since the purpose of the operation of the Capital Company, some were already in the law in force, with the transferred shares of the insurance undertaking to create additional funds for pension and disability insurance, the preservation of ownership of Kad, then out of its allocated right over the shares allocated to it, the solution that ensures ineffective management of the shares of the insurance undertaking and the conditions for the exercise of privatisation, but in fact also the origin of the shares, is essentially the most appropriate and is the best possible solution. Dear Members and Members, the Government is proposing to the National Assembly to support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the Chairman of this Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u101	One more nice hello to everyone. At its 28th meeting, on 26.6., the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the real estate transformation of insurance undertakings as the parent labour body. The meeting was attended as usually by the Legal and Legislative Service, the Committee took note of the opinion of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposals of the Law of 14.6.2007. Pending the expiry of the deadline for the submission of amendments to the proposed law, this is until 20.6.2007, qualified applicants have not tabled any amendments. Representatives and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, attended the meetings of the Committee. The law, as was the basic principle of the law, as has already been said, seeks to ensure the most effective privatisation of the Triglav insurance company, which can only be achieved if all shareholders are known or if the issue of the distribution of undeclared capital is adequately resolved. The fact is that the Capital Company must exercise the rights arising from the holding of shares which it has received under this Act with a view to providing funds for pension and disability insurance. As no amendments have been adopted, the Committee proposes to discuss and vote on the draft law on the text tabled in Rapporteur No. 41, 24.5.2007.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Yelen on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u103	Thanks again for saying that. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the property transformation of insurance companies is extremely short, since it contains only two articles, of which the other sets a holiday period, but the first provision is extremely important, and this is also indicated by the violent public controversy and the hot debate already held by the home labour body. The proposer proposes deleting the two paragraphs of the basic law in order to establish the criteria under which natural persons will be entitled to the shares of the insurance undertaking, pension vouchers or insurance policy, and the other that until this special law is implemented, Kad cannot have the shares of the insurance companies. And why is he going? Legal persons who were insured by the insurance company Triglav in 1990 may purchase shares of Triglav under the Law on the Hairdressing of Insurance Companies from the Slovenian Compensation Society, as their guardian. However, physical insurers have had their 35% custody of Kadu so far, since the basic law provides for legal persons Kad and the Court of Justice as the beneficiary of the holding of irregular capital and until the acquisition of shares issued for the unnormalised capital of insurance undertakings. The question whether this share will be divided into approximately 750,000 Triglav insurers ended with a government proposal that will make Kad the custodian into the owner of this share. In order to resolve the extremely pressing issue of the identification of natural persons, the Government has set up a special advisory group, whose conclusions were that the possible implementation of such procedures for an indicative of 750,000 beneficiaries would be from a legal, logistical and cost-effective point of view an extremely demanding process in which it would be impossible to determine the appropriate beneficiaries with full precision. That is why the Government has decided to follow the guidelines of this expert commission. In addition, the proposal ensures that the benefits of the value of the insurance company’s capital will benefit from a range of beneficiaries corresponding to the large proportion of insured persons that the insurance undertaking or its legal successors had in 1990. Thus, when all rights arising from property shares are to be exercised by the Commission in order to provide funds for pension and disability insurance. Such a proposal that when it becomes the owner of this capital, we support our parliamentary group because we believe that there is no particular reason not to allow investment in various portfolio investments, because on the one hand the funds obtained would only strengthen the pension fund even more. In addition, properly dispersed investments would provide greater security, as we are convinced that the unspentness or concentration of this capital can only be one too high risk in one hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Veršnik has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! There is another story that has greatly disturbed the public in the past. It's the property of our biggest insurance company, Triglav. After a long-term determination of the real value and a contradiction between the professional and political public, we have reached the finally acceptable numbers, which are now the basic ones to be owned. Let me remind you that the final number is once again greater than the original and means a 50 million higher value than originally established. It was initially envisaged that they would have the right to purchase insurance shares in addition to legal persons, including natural persons insured in 1990. Approximately 750 thousand insurers or their heirs should prove that they meet the conditions for purchase. Since this proposal would virtually not be feasible and would lead, in our opinion, to new injustices, it was the only sensible decision to transfer the shares to Kad, which, by its operation, provides funds for the pension fund. The fundamental principle for the realisation of which this law weighs is to ensure the effective privatisation of the insurance undertaking, which is only possible where all shareholders are known or where the issue of the distribution of irregular capital is adequately addressed. The subordinate law also follows the principle of establishing such a circle of indirect beneficiaries, income from irregular capital, which would correspond as much as possible to the wide range of individually identifiable beneficiaries or, in other words, natural persons, to the work of the abnormal capital of the insurance undertaking. The capital company must exercise the rights arising from the holding of shares which it has received under this Act in order to provide funds for pension and disability insurance. The aim of the law is to ensure successful privatisation of the Triglav Insurance Company. In the medium term, the country is expected to maintain a dominant influence in the insurance undertaking and, in the long term, it is expected to retain at least 26% or so of the share that in each particular case gives it the power of veto over the most important decisions in their congregations. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the proposal pursued in the law is good, so we will also support the proposed Law on Property Change of Insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Mark Pavlich has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with co-worker and co-worker, distinguished colleagues! My colleagues are not sorry to say hello. The ownership transformation of Slovenian insurance and reinsurance companies is taking place as much as the Slovenian state considers them. As early as 1993, the competent authorities should determine the amount of social capital in insurance and manage it carefully for the benefit of pension policyholders and the last resort to the budget, unfortunately this has not happened. They have also been discriminated against in insurance all this time, because they did not have the same opportunities as their colleagues in other companies to invest their property certificates in insurance or insurance companies where some have worked and are still working for decades. We only received the first Property Change Act in 2000, but it was frozen by the Constitutional Court after a few months and repealed in 2001. In 2002, we received a new law that was still in force, which was able to keep on the surface, except for one provision which was also declared unconstitutional. Let me recall, for the time being, the sixth paragraph of Article 21, which stipulated and promised that a special law would be adopted within 12 months, allowing more than 756 thousand insurers and insurers to participate in the part of the insurance capital, either in the form of pension vouchers, shares or insurance policies. What soon turned out to be a pre-ambitious and in practice unfulfilled provision, and we in the Group of Social Democrats supported an agreement within the framework of the Partnership for Development that this provision should be deleted and replaced by the following, that the shareholding of these Social Democrats should become a Capital Society and, at the same time, the Capital Society should be prevented from having access to these shares. Why? For the Capital Company should manage the shares in order to provide funds for pension and disability insurance. It was a deal he was sorry for, God knows why, he changed in government. And regardless of whether we would have found it to be a matter of holding a fig in a pocket by some or anything else, unfortunately we cannot support this novel in the parliamentary group, because if we supported it, we are afraid of failing more than 756 thousand insurers and insurers. Our proposal to the Committee on Finance was in the form of an amendment to remain a provision, as is now the case with the law, for the Capital Society to become a shareholder of all these insurers in order to manage the provision of pension and disability insurance funds. However, we have proposed only one sentence, or one paragraph, to prevent or prevent the Capital Society from having access to this property. Because, theoretically, the Capital Society can sell this capital after the entry into force of this law or the amendment of the law after five days, Godsigag knows why, for whatever purpose, it might not be intended to fill the pension hole. Finally, after 2010, it is expected that this pension hole will slowly become chaotic, for after this period we expect retirement to be the largest generation ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Petek has the floor, on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u109	Nice greetings to the vice president, the secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! At the outset, on behalf of the LDS Club, let me strongly stress that the proposed solution to the deletion of Article 21, paragraph 6 and 7, of the Law on the Property Transformation of Insurance Companies, by which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wishes to prevent the privatisation of the Triglav Insurance Company, amounting to 35.25% of the capital by natural persons, former insurers from 1990, is unacceptable to the LDS Club. According to the Member States, it should be possible for natural persons to participate in the privatisation of the Triglav Insurance Company as well as legal persons. It is true that there are some technical reservations, but if the law is adopted in such a form, the principle of equal treatment of all participants in the privatisation of Triglav will, of course, be violated in our opinion. Therefore, the Member Club considers that the Government’s reasoning for the proposed amendment of the law, which states that the identification of beneficiaries, i.e. natural persons, before privatisation is questionable, is not sufficient reason to adopt the law in the form proposed. In particular, since it is known that the Privatisation Advisory Group of the Triglav Insurance Company has provided some alternative privatisation solutions, such as for example, to transfer the shares of the Triglav Insurance Company to the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute and to be paid to the recipients of pensions. Why has the government not accepted such a proposal? The government also did not take into account the proposal of the Triglav Privatisation Advisory Group that, for example, funds should be used for the grant, i.e. for the grant fund. No, the government has only decided that instead of these solutions, which we think would be more appropriate, it will only be a hole in the Capital Society, which was created by the poor sale of Mercator's shares. Now we all know, even the Court of Auditors' report proves that there has been damage, that there has been damage at a level such as an estimate of 29 billion dollars, in today's currency in the euro currency of 120 million euros. Therefore, this injury, if we now sell these shares or then enforce the acquisition premiums, would probably not be a motive for the Government to transfer this share of capital to the Capital Society. This and this way will, of course, increase the impact of the present and, objectively speaking, of future policies in the Triglav Insurance Company, which cannot be the goal, at least we believe, of any government. The fundamental objective of the proposed amendments to the law in order to ensure the efficient management of the insurance undertaking will certainly not be achieved by this law, as the Capital Society, with its now politically established leadership, proves that it is a bad owner. That is why the LDS Club will oppose the adoption of the law in the form it is in front of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u110	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen on behalf of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u111	Say good-bye to everyone again! In the New Slovenia Group, we want better living standards for all people to be achieved in Slovenia. This can be done by improving the competitiveness and effectiveness of the Slovenian economy, which we need structural reforms, as well as privatisation. In the New Slovenia Group we find that privatisation in Slovenia has often taken place under the influence of interested lobbying and often to the detriment of the country. We have pledged that, as long as we are in the new government, a privatisation strategy will be developed. In the New Slovenia Group, we are pleased to be accompanied by a breakdown of the property of the insurance company Triglav. As early as 2005, the Finance Minister, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, pointed out the risk of damage to state property. As a result of a valuation that did not reflect the actual value of the Triglav Insurance Company, the use of individuals could occur and the state budget would be reduced by EUR 50 million. Due to the insistence of Finance Minister Bajuk, ownership has been suspended and the Administrative Court has in those days attached a re-evaluation decision, which means that Insurance Company Triglav is worth more than EUR 500 million and not EUR 250 million as set out in the initial valuation. The country is still an important owner of certain companies. Indirectly, it has shares in most important Slovenian companies. Special advisory groups have been appointed to privatise large companies such as Telekom, the Insurance Company Triglav, which have prepared individual privatisation programmes. If the Court of Auditors has already established in 2000 that there are no documents on the strategy for the sale of shares of companies prior to the decision on privatisation, we can today find that the proposal for a law is accompanied by the report of the Advisory Group on completing the ownership of the Insurance Company Triglav. The report presents a definition of the basic objectives of privatisation, mentions the process of changing the target ownership structure, and in the next five to seven years it is proposed to maintain the predominant influence of the State and legal persons on governance. In the long run, the country would maintain 26% of its share. The Government has taken into account and transposed the work report on the legitimate expectations of natural persons, allowing the benefit of the capital value of the Insurance Company Triglav to benefit from a range of justifications that would best correspond to the broad share of insured persons held by the insurance company in 1990. Thus, the Capital Company remains the owner of shares that have already been transferred under the applicable law and the proposed amendment sets out the purpose to be respected in the exercise of property rights. This means that it must execute them by providing funds for pension and disability insurance. The capital company was set up to create additional funds for pension and disability insurance by managing its own assets. With the proposed amendment of the law, the Capital Society is transformed from a custodian to an active owner. As a modern master, the Capital Society will have to ensure that the profitability of the pension fund is maximised. This is also its basic purpose since its establishment. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal of the law, as we strive for fair and transparent marriage solutions that are in everyone's interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. In 200 the National Assembly adopted the Law on the Property Transformation of Insurance Companies, which regulated the area of the property transformation of social capital in insurance companies. On the basis of the repeal of the law by the Constitutional Court, a new law on the property transformation of insurance undertakings was adopted which regulated the area of calculation of the proportion of reputable capital in insurance undertakings and, following a decision of the Constitutional Court, allows individuals to lodge an action in an administrative dispute against decisions of the Government of Slovenia. In 2003, the government issued a decision on the Triglav Insurance Company in which, inter alia, it harmonised the basic capital by first reducing the basic capital of the insurance undertaking, then increasing it by as much as needed for the Slovenian compensation company to obtain the share of the basic capital of the insurance undertaking as it had on the date of the last amendment. The proposed amendments to the law aim to ensure effective management of the ownership of the Triglav Insurance Company and to ensure that the management of this capital is entitled to the widest possible range of individually identifiable insurers of the Triglav Insurance Company. The law provides that the Capital Company shall remain the owner of shares that have already been transferred to it. In addition, a new sixth paragraph is added in Article 21, which imposes solely on the Capital Society the provision of funds for pension and disability insurance. Since the aim of KAD is to create additional funds for pension and disability insurance, it is to preserve ownership When a good solution leads in the right direction. The Law provides for legal persons - Kad and the Court - for the benefit of the beneficiaries of the unnominated capital - and since there is a great problem of recording and identifying natural persons and their heirs - because the beneficiaries of the unnominated capital - as precise records do not exist, it has been proposed that the legal expectations of the natural persons of the Triglav Insurance Community cannot be subject to individual procedures of individual beneficiaries. Due to the large number of indicative beneficiaries, this would also, in the view of our Group of Members, constitute a legal and cost-effective procedure. The procedures for including the heirs of the current beneficiaries in the process would be particularly difficult. The number of disputes would increase and the procedures would be longer. According to the Advisory Group on completing the ownership of the Insurance Company Triglav, claims by legal persons relate to more than 30% of the total basic capital of the Insurance Company Triglav. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support economic development and a competitive economy, and some reforms, including privatisation, are also necessary to achieve this objective. We see the bill as appropriate and will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u114	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendment cannot be tabled as part of the second reading of the amendment, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we will have a third hearing, which is a vote on the bill, to be held tomorrow, on Thursday, 12 July in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 6. Period of the day - this is a second defensively proposed service law in the Slovenian army. I would like to inform you that we have two hours and 25 minutes of discussion scheduled for this point. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, so I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an additional supplementary explanation of the bill. Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister of Defence, joined us, who will also be given the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u115	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Good-bye to all of you. We have already discussed the proposal for a law on service in the Slovenian Army in the general debate in this National Assembly. I must say that we have tried most of the comments that have been made in this general debate, also to comply with this regulation. The proposal for a law on service in the Slovenian Army has been supplemented by the working body and represents an important improvement of the legal proposal, which, as I have already said, has been discussed in general. This is particularly true for those proposals tabled by the coalition and also adopted by the Defence Committee. The scholarship system was complemented by the regulation of traineeship salaries and easier entry into the military organisation. The evaluation of the work in which the contract of employment is terminated due to the completed age is regulated. Baselines shall be established for the evaluation of the increased workload and loads in removable or in response or equivalent forces. The date is the basis for the evaluation of critical formational obligations and, in accordance with the general discussion, also a more appropriate mandatory supplementary pension insurance is regulated. Family members are also defined in more detail, which improves their rights in the system of integrated care and, under certain conditions, uninterrupted uninterrupted insurance is also established. Social protection is complemented by the possibility of subsidising care for preschool children. The rights of the spouse at the time of the death of a member of the military service regarding the use of an apartment are extended. However, some of the provisions have also been updated editorially. Let me mention that the law has also been supported by the State Council. On the basis of the Commission's debate on the political system, we have also proposed additions to Articles 38 and 40, which have also been supported by the Defence Committee and which have been supplemented by Articles 45 of this Act. According to our deep belief, the law represents fundamental and true solutions to address key issues for the further development and functioning of the Slovenian Army. It also means that there is an opportunity to increase the competitiveness of military service in employment. A respected choir! In doing so, we cannot support the additional amendments to Article 58 and Article 96 of the LDS or the Group of Social Democrats to Article 58. The first proposal excludes the validity of a collective contract for the public sector for the military, which, in our view, is unrealistic, as negotiations that lasted for several years have just been concluded, says 2002 onwards. Tax legislation solves the problem of taxation of salaries during military service outside the country. The proposal to regulate salaries during military service outside the country by special law is, in our opinion, inadequate, since the legal basis for the autonomous regulation of these salaries has already been laid down by the government regulation. The proposal of the Social Democrats to go beyond the added value limits for certain formational duties is essentially too much of a derogation from the Single Wages Act in the public sector. A respected choir! I thank you for your support so far in addressing this law, and I propose that you also accept it at second reading, because, as I have said, this law is essential for the further development of the Slovenian Army and the entire defence system. I am confident that this law will be able to resolve certain problems that occurred at the time of the introduction of the professional Slovenian Army and even when we became members of NATO. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u116	Minister, thank you. The draft law was treated by the Defence Committee as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr Anton Anderlich, to submit a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u117	Your Honor! Following the general examination of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, the Committee was appointed to examine the law at second reading and prepare a text for consideration at the meeting of the assembly. The long-awaited law, also repeatedly withdrawn from the Ministry of Defence's Internet sites, including with some already better proposals, was then, after the general hearing in the National Assembly, still subject to a wider interest, both professional and other public interest, the initiative of the Social Democrats' Group of Members to make a public presentation of opinions, was rejected on the Committee without arguments, this proposal was not accepted in further consideration, so were representatives of the Government, the Slovenian Army, trade unions and the interested public, adopted several amendments, the three irrelevant LDS Clubs, some amendments that followed the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and may also, I say, slightly changed paragraphs 58 and 59, which could mean that in the third or second hearing of the Congress, some amendments that followed the opinion of the Law-Legal Service, however, would have improved the text of the amendment. As it is said, the committee has adopted some of these amendments, has not accepted amendments which are also now being considered at the National Assembly. According to the Committee's general opinion, this is a step towards regulating the situation, but not so great as to prevent certain things, especially when it comes to the comparability of certain professions that are classified by this law as public servants, holders of these professions. This is mainly about pilots in the Slovenian Army and some other specialised professions. Some felt that this could have been done, but the amendment in this direction was not adopted, nor was it in the part where the Ministry promised to regulate the status of the guardian of military rights. At the time of the incidents, various forms of bullying and also alleged sexual harassment, it was promised that this was being prepared and that it would also be an integral part of the law, and in some versions it was, and now it is no longer. As it is said, the committee has drafted the law, has it in a consolidated text and we believe that further measures in the Slovenian Army can also be built on this basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Since the Assembly held its 28th meeting on the first reading of the bill, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups and we will not do so. We are therefore going over the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 10.7. I am thus putting to the debate Article 58 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. We're opening the application procedure. Here you go, please. We have two panellists, first member Aurelio Juri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u119	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. All hailing, to the minister and to the coworkers as well. He said that on the Committee we had adopted and significantly supplemented the law in a way that we had adopted certain solutions that had been given here. Those proposed by the opposition, or by the Liberal Democracy and Social Democrats, were rejected and thus acknowledged that only the solutions of the coalition colleagues, which also followed the warnings and recommendations of the Legislative and Legal Service, were adopted. Today we are re-imposing an amendment to Article 58, which unfortunately did not receive the support of the Government and coalition colleagues on the Defence Committee, unless it solves the deficit of certain specific professions in the Slovenian Army in an appropriate or fair and generally acceptable manner and is a scrambling, this is once again stressed by the Minister, with the wage system in the public sector pursued by the Government. This may be true, but we would also like to present this once again with our amendment, the criteria for the effectiveness of professional competence and, last but not least, the sense of the existence and development of such a service, such a structure, such an organisation, has its weight. If we have already asked for an army, professional, one that will safely protect the country and contribute to the efforts of the world's security and peace community around the world, and if we claim that there is no such service, if there is no aviation technical staff, if there are no air traffic controllers, divers, scouts and other specialists, we need to provide, or provide, conditions for work and income that will also motivate them in the long term to serve the queens, namely the military and society. True, the Government and the coalition are trying to resolve this differently, but in our opinion, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, who we have actively participated in the partnership in coordinating the text of this bill, in our view, there will not be much bread from this flour, or these professions will continue to go forward as soon as possible and we will continue to face this problem. However, when assessed at the time of the general discussion - the proposal of the law in our opinion only partially solves the complex and unsatisfactory situation in the Slovenian Army or regulates the conditions of military service, so that the problems we already know will soon erupt again. We insist that the Social Democrats should - and let us remember this once again - cut down radically under the roof law, that is, under the Defence Act, which has been in force for 13 years, is exhausted due to many political, social and institutional changes both at home and in the wider international reference area and will have to be addressed once, if not sooner, in the next mandate. Well, this time this train passed. We are in the very law that, unfortunately, the government and the coalition have not been able to face the general public. We have proposed a public presentation of opinions, which was rejected by the Defence Committee. Well, if this option is given to us today, let's get it a little bit better equipped so that at least this biggest human deficit problem will be easier to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Commissioner Christian Janz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Chairman. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Personally, I do not see the need for this 58th Article of the amendment, because I believe that already, in our view, the proposal for the Slovenian Army Act itself adequately regulates this area, so that for such a way of carrying out the tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces it lays some groundwork, it substantially improves it, as it was the first one, and adds new encouraging contents of this law, which could, as my predecessor has said, improve the situation. I believe that it is not optimal that this law will probably not be able to solve all problems, as well, that the conditions that Slovenian soldiers and employees would like are not optimal. However, it pleases me that even after the first general treatment many of our suggestions were introduced, they were accepted, from scholarships, working conditions, evaluation, pension insurance. These are the stories that, in my opinion, gave a good debate, and the ministry, with additional effort, introduced proposals, desiring that, at the time of the professionalisation of the Slovenian Army, with the entry into NATO, where certain changes have certainly occurred, the Government and the Ministry have the duty to accompany this matter together with us. And this first step is now done. Whether it is long enough and determined and will produce the real results of the development of the Slovenian Army or not, it will show time, because we do not lock the story because it will be open. Last but not least, this ministry, this government or the future may still have to fix a matter if we want to have a good Slovenian army, professionally, with enough employees, but of course looking for the most optimal conditions on the market, that, like any other worker, also a Slovenian soldier, pilot or anyone can choose and probably have somewhere else better options than in the Slovenian Army. I am so pleased that the ministry has been involved in a broader debate, including with trade unions, and has tried to best listen to these conditions. Of course, probably not to everyone, because any condition of the union probably cannot be met by the ministry, nor can the Slovenian government. But I claim that the condition and situation of the Slovenian soldier will significantly improve with this new legislation, give some new impetus, new opportunities in the hope and desire that Slovenia will have a solid and successful professional Slovenian army, that it will have enough staff for all its professions in the structure and that this service will work as Slovenia wants, as it does in the end of the Government and the Slovenian Parliament. I believe that with these conditions, which we are kind of accepting today, we are concluding and that I think they are the right direction, the right path and also a decisive step towards better conditions for Slovenian soldiers in the Slovenian Army, and therefore I hope that a smaller outflow and a greater influx into this swimming pool is needed by the Slovenian Army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Member Aurelio Juri applied to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u123	Because my colleague Janc mentioned my debate. Of course - from your mouth to God's ears, if the solutions proposed by the coalition and the government will endure. We will be together for another year, the Defence Committee will follow the trend towards the completion of the Slovenian Armed Forces, in particular to monitor the situation in these profiles, in these professions, which are extremely important. And we'll see in a year who was right. Of course, we can speculate a little today. We hope that these solutions, which certainly improve the situation, will achieve the objective. We are afraid, according to our estimates, not only of non-professional people, but also of those colleagues who work in this area, that this will be too little; not enough for motivation, because the market invites them. And the market offers enormous or much, much better income to these people, because the market does not find them elsewhere, we train them, we train them, we train them, we place them in a wider international space, language, technically, whatever, and then they are prey. In the back, one endures, each has his own motives, each one has his own reasons to decide one way or another, but many leave. We'll see what happens, but in one year, we'll be charging for such a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u124	Thank you very much. But we're opening a new round to discuss. I'm asking you to report to the debate. We have five panellists, first member Stana Pike. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. I also think that the law is balanced enough and that it is a great, great progress from what was before, that the Slovenian Army is getting the right legal basis for development and that this amendment is unnecessary. It's true that we all want better conditions, and it's honest. I believe that this amendment is also well-intentioned to give soldiers, Slovenian soldiers, especially those with a specific profession, even better conditions. But the thing has to be balanced, I believe it's now balanced with other professions. If there is no clear thing, there will also have to be some corrective action, because I am always in favour of making the thing that is accidentally bad, even correct, but this moment I think the thing is balanced, if time shows how otherwise, is another thing, but for now there is great, great progress, it needs to be stressed and I think it will hold out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u126	Thank you, too. But to my word, I invite Ambassador Robert Hroat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u127	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with co-workers! I must say that the Service Act in the Slovenian Army is certainly one of the key areas of defence that we will deal with or deal with in this mandate. The Slovenian Army is a specific organisation and also needs specific treatment. Since the first reading, and since the general debate, this law has already improved appropriately. If I now focus on these two amendments to Article 58, I can say that they are in some way attractive and, on the other hand, totally unnecessary, because this is already defined in this Law or something in the Defence Act. Let me say that this moment the Slovenian soldier is classified in the 17th or 18th wage class. With this collective agreement, which is about to enter into force, the soldier is placed in the 21st wage class, which is the leap of four wage classes. In addition, on the Committee on Defence, we have further corrected this article, which defines the salary for professional soldiers, by adding a 10% raise to them because it is a specific profession that ends at the age of 45. Not to mention the amendment proposed by my colleague, Mr Juri, who is talking about professions that are in some way deficient in the military; but all that this amendment you have tabled is already defined in some way in that amendment tabled by the Coalition on the Defence Committee. It clearly states that, in accordance with this Article, the basic salary may also be increased under certain formational duties whose performance requires specific knowledge and increased burdens. That includes exactly what you were talking about a little while ago. It's also attached to the pilots' union. At the meeting of the Defence Committee, sir, I believe that Mr Kosmrl finally agreed after the discussion with the dictatorship, which the Ministry has explained that this is covered by this article of the law. Mr. Koshmrl said, "that it was very nicely completed in that paragraph, which could then be increased by 30%. If that's the way you mean it, then we accept it. Thank you very much." This means that the pilots' union, which has actively participated in the debate, has clearly defined that what you are proposing in this amendment today is already covered by the coalition amendment we have adopted on the Committee. Therefore, I believe that the solution that we have today on the table is, therefore, complementary, appropriate and absolutely not necessary, to implement any more of these solutions proposed by LDS Members and SD Members. Thanks, so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u128	Thank you, too. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Anton Anderlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u129	But this is really a kind of misdirection or cynicism, when it comes to saying, because we added 10% of the supplements, but still; this is not about trade, this is not meddling, as you may be accustomed to. We are talking here about whether the status of Slovenian soldiers or members of this service will be properly regulated or not. The fact is that even in this amendment that we are proposing here, the second paragraph is copied from one of the texts published by the Government or the Ministry on its websites. When it comes to necessity, it is also comparable to other countries that regulate the status of soldiers, but to regulate in an autonomous manner. The point is that it is not possible to compare a soldier with any other public servant. It is a risk that these soldiers - or military personnel - are exposed to and are obliged to carry out these tasks even when their lives are at risk. It is a job governed by the rules of service and, of course, it is also a question of the use of weapons when it comes to self-defence, when it comes to acting in certain areas when it comes to protecting others who are involved in these operations. Of course, it is a series of things that are actually misinterpreted or misinterpreted in the introduction. First time. When we talk about how things should be arranged in a special law, we are not just talking about salaries, we are talking about the whole status, we are talking about what is what belongs to or is affecting someone if they choose to do military service and are exposed to such or other risks. It is not possible to classify certain professions, especially within the Slovenian Armed Forces, into a system of public servants. We do not have a comparable category of professions in, say, the Ministry of Public Administration, which ultimately had a key impact on the drafting of this law, and as a result, some of the things that have already been more regulated than they are now, better regulated in the draft laws, had to disappear. There is also a great deal of risk for the Government if only a regulation regulates the system of wages and also rewards and so on. I am sorry that it has also been said today that some issues cannot be settled because they should be regulated in the Defence Act, but we cannot do so; but, until now, this Government has not come up with a proposal that, in order to regulate the status of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, it should come up with a proposal to amend the Defence Act. If necessary, say very clearly and loudly: we will come with the law, we will arrange these things and open the debate. This was a discussion both on the Committee and at the first reading in the National Assembly, and this discussion is also publicly known. Further on, when you talk about comparisons with other countries, all other comparable countries have a special period in which members of their armies participate outside the state in any operation - you do not want that. You have also made some comparisons in the law with the uncomparable countries, but you have referred to arrangements in other countries, we have already talked about this on the committee and also in this Chamber. This is why it is a common concern, I am not saying that there is no progress, but it is only something done, but not what it would do in the final stage if we want a truly professional Slovenian army in the service of the State and the international community as it is now being treated when it comes to providing security defence, etc., peace and co-existence. Therefore, the reference to some flossules to many suggestions have been taken into account, no Mr. Janc! None of the first readings - none! Read your first reading, read your magnetogram and you'll see, none, exactly none. Read the union opinions, read some articles of experts who were, by the way, also fired, some doctors in the field of defence have been fired from the Ministry of Defence as if they were unnecessary, and this is regulated by others now, but perhaps later. It is simply that this article is what the heart is, which is the essence of this law and the whole arrangement: whether we recognize that the military profession is in all its forms, because, of course, there are also specific, even more difficult skills within this, than just being a soldier, or whether it is something that is considered to be exempt, specifically treated and even rewarded. This profession is not comparable to anything else. Also, the pilot is not comparable to Adria's pilot, because this pilot must also fly to endangered areas, and you know that some of the routes they fly when it comes to danger are exempted or not flown there. So it's a substantial, substantially different requirement, for a substantial greater exposure, but here it's being treated as a public servant, by the fact that the bill of worship probably got 10% out of its pockets and further rewarded them, or that they're going to have 10% of the extra reward. We're not talking about this, we're talking about whether we're willing to talk about whether it's a different profession, that it's basically, let's say, if I stop on a pilot or some of the others mentioned above in the SD amendment: is that something else? Of course it is! I'm saying it is, and that's what I said. I therefore expect the Minister's reply to why this paragraph has been released, which we now propose to do - and therefore we support the Ministry and the Government - because the first paragraph speaks, "the rules governing the salaries of public servants apply to salaries in the Slovenian Army" and then, of course, what is essential "without prejudice to the previous paragraph of the Government, on a proposal from the Minister, determines the classification of indicative formational duties or titles in the Slovenian Army in salary classes and supplements". Of course, you deleted this and you said that they were automatically listed in the 17th with the start, but according to a government regulation that we don't know yet, we don't even know what it will be like to compare it at all, but it certainly won't achieve what it's supposed to be about; it's about the fact that it's an exposed profession and that it's also necessary to regulate the whole status, not just pay. Once again, it has been said that we would only want to settle wages. No! No! It's about the status, the pay, the supplements, the things that come after the contracts go through, and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Commissioner Christian Janz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u131	Thank you very much again. I wanted to answer my colleague Yuri's discussion when he was actually right. I agree with you that perhaps time will show whether this status, as Mr Anderlič says, will be conditions and so on, large enough and stimulating enough for pilots and others to remain in the Slovenian Army or to come. I don't know if they will either, but this big step has been taken. Whether it's big enough, it will show time, after a year, I don't know, for two years it will certainly be seen whether this marriage is what colleague Anderlič once again said nothing was taken into account. I don't think that's true. In the first-reading debate in Parliament, much has been taken into account in this story, why it was not on your committee, I do not know because I am not a member of the committee. But this has been taken into account what you discussed here as a coalition, and I think these conditions have been given quite a bit. Will these conditions, I repeat, be sufficiently stimulating, interesting enough that this will be the status of the Slovenian soldier, in the proper sense of the word, appropriate, stimulating, difficult to say and we do not know, not you, Mr Anderlič, not me, but will show time. However, it is likely that the pilot in Adria or in the Slovenian Army does not have the same conditions and will probably never have them, because Slovenia is not such a rich country that it could so well stimulate the Slovenian pilot in the Slovenian Army as, say, Adria does. But, look, the step is made, we've given the conditions, we've also set financial and other status conditions. Whether that is enough or not, let's wait, let's leave time and allow the Slovenian Army and its employees to show. However, if these results are not available, again to the Government, back to Parliament and any government or minister will have to correct the conditions if we want to have a good professional Slovenian army.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Member Anton Anderlich applied to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u133	Look, Mr. Janc, you haven't mentioned a single case because you say "many," that's just some term that has to be justified, which "many" are. But I can quote you on where the law got worse. In the version of the 5.10. bill, for example, 2006 was precisely written, which would probably be much easier to regulate this status, namely: "Despite the previous paragraph," which is that wages regulate the rules applicable to civil servants, "without prejudice to the previous paragraph, the Government, on a proposal from the Minister, determines the classification of formational duties and titles in the Slovenian Army into wage classes and supplements." And the following: "Members belong due to the particular complexity and responsibility of carrying out military service a special allowance to pay, whose height is determined by the Government..." and so on. Well, it's gone, it's gotten worse, Mr. Janc. And now you say: this pilot can't have the same salary in the Slovenian Army in Adria, because yes, but we do have a market, because we do have a free choice! [[...]] Then what? Do you know the trends in this year, or shall I say, in the last two years, what about the human resources development in the Slovenian Army when we talk about pilots and those who manage this squadron? Do you know him? They're leaving, and it's very critical. We had this information on the committee 14 days ago or three weeks ago - it's getting worse. So if we smother the market, if the pilot is in one job or another, it's free to say that we're not a wealthy society, that in Adria, which is, by the way, how much is Adria a state firm? Who owns Adrie? Who - 100% owns the country! So, what kind of discussions are we going here? You say Adria is rich and can pay, but the military is not allowed, because in the service of the Slovenian state and the country is not rich and we must not reward these same pilots with a much more exposed job equally. The square! I am not talking about the fact that every profession - or the status of a Slovenian soldier, one who starts as an apprentice in the 17th grade, must be exempted as well as that comparable profession. I'm talking about comparable professions. I'm talking about a market where without us admitting it and taking it into account, we probably won't be able to fix the situation. And that's probably how we should look at the whole structure. Like I said last time, I'm going to support the marriage because whatever goes on. Unfortunately, though, we may have taken a few steps too little. I believe that there were negotiations - in the paper I was able to read this. It read as follows: Minister Virant does not allow this to be regulated; Minister Virant wants it to be so and so on. I don't know who's going to say it, but I want the professions that are within the military and comparable to other professions to be arranged equally. But answer me, Mr Janc, how is this comparison with Adria, when you say they are rich, 100% owned by the state, and, I will not say that the owner of the Slovenian Army is a state, but is in the service of this country this army.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I can't give you Janc's replica on the replica, but I'll open another round for discussion later, which will allow you to tell your answer. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague, Milan Cwickle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, Mr. Chief of Staff, Mr. Richtay. First, of course, thanks for taking into account some of the comments made in the first reading, then commenting on both amendments, and finally having to "strap" with something that you did not take into account. First, about the amendments. I would like to answer those who say that the amendments mean that there will be no balance, that the matter will not be balanced. I must say that it is right for the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to propose point 4, which says "the part of the salary that a soldier earns outside the Republic of Slovenia is not included in the tax base in accordance with the law governing income". Because this would achieve balance. Let me say that the Slovenian Army, everything it does, is working in accordance with European Union missions or NATO missions. And if only lawyers were to study precisely Articles 6 and 7, which says that those who are employed in the institutions of the European Union, and those who do not pay income after world income, have already solved this problem. I hope that it will not be necessary for the Slovenian Army to become part of the Western European, as it is called, defence structures, and not to become part of them, to become part of the European army, so that we can reward them just as in Austria. And the Comparative Review says that in Austria, that soldiers who are on so-called military departmental duties, soldiers who are in training, are used to determine in an international mission the law on additives in the military. And the point is this: the amount of monthly earnings is fixed in gross amounts, from which no contributions and taxes are paid. Because this is exempt from the so-called concept of global income. And we have done the same for all who are Slovenian citizens and are employed in the institutions of the European Union. You now have one specialist in military-intelligence activities and he goes, he works at the European Union institution for the protection of external borders in Poland and is not a tax resident. And, of course, he's leaving. This is the content of the amendment proposed by colleagues from the Group of the Liberal Democracy and can be carried out so easily with the appropriate interpretation of the Income Act that there should be no dilemma among Members of the ruling coalition. And the second story is the amendment of my fellow Member, Mr Yuri. This is because military health personnel would not be subject to the restriction provided for in Article 31 of the Public Sector Wage System Act. I'll only deal with doctors, not doctors, doctors, because that's very recent in the last few weeks, months. The point is this, Mr. Secretary. Doctors in Slovenian medicine have their regular salary, have allowances and have on-calls. And on duty is governed by the minister in the second law, not by the law on the system of wages. And because of the on-calls, because on-calls are paid and because they are in a special way, they are called, "rewarded", the common salaries of doctors, especially those who are at the same time directors of health institutions, have been at the top of paid salaries for many years, they call, "public employees". You don't allow this to be done by military medical personnel. I'm not saying you have to set up a watch, I'm not saying you have to do anything else to ensure that people don't leave you. And of course, people are leaving you, otherwise you wouldn't have a permanent shortage of soldiers, I'd rather not talk about numbers, just soldiers leaving you. And now that the Slovenian Army is increasingly exposed to tasks outside of Slovenia, these potential pressures will increase for Slovenian soldiers to go to other armies. They can do this because the so-called free movement of labour in the European Union applies and the Slovenian soldiers will go to the army of neighbouring Italy, and the European Union also has the equality of languages and languages they do not need to know, but those pairs of commands will already learn. Thus, in this context, the law is not balanced with others either in the profession or with this basic position regarding income legislation. That is why both amendments are correct, and both amendments would make sense, and not as you say, colleagues, 'the matter is balanced; in these negotiations we have achieved a military right relationship'. Far from it. When - and our soldiers see this - they see how much the soldiers of neighbouring countries are paid, or when they simply see, when they take a little look at this story of the institution of the European Union, there will be more of these departures. And these departures happen on a daily basis. In this context, we have a problem of negative selection. Who can go to the institutions of the European Union? Best because they have to be competitive and so on. And of course, what are we doing? We do nothing but educate highly qualified people, unfortunately at home underpaid, experts who then leave. And I promised I'd end up with a "slap." Mr Minister, in the public debate, I asked whether you may have made a mistake or whether the concern for former members is so great that you decided that there would still be a provision of a law that is unconstitutional because the Minister of Defence and the Secretary of State for Defence is a civilian person, and you say in law, and this is the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, in the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, you say what will happen to the former Minister and former Secretary of State, and you say that when these two die, they will be buried with military honours. I expected this anomaly to fall out of the law, of course I am sorry that there was no way to discuss it. Therefore, I ask: Is this by mistake left in law or will you throw this story out of law, because I assume that the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia as a civilian is not in service in the Slovenian Army, but is employed by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, which is an integral part of the Government, is a state institution and not a military institution. And so, of course, with all due respect to the former defence ministers, it is not about not allowing them to be buried with military honours, but it simply does not work together if, of course, the Minister is still a civilian person. But if something has changed in the meantime and we haven't noticed it in the National Assembly, please get to know us. I therefore believe that the adoption of the amendment would make the matter better balanced. Take these corrections out of the office if it is possible to do so, so that we do not look strangely when it comes to taking a former secretary of state or secretary or minister somewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I'm opening a new application circuit. Member Robert Hrvat has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that again. I simply had to respond to the implementation of Mr Squeak. I have explained earlier why these two amendments will not be supported by our Group of Members, and I think it has been sufficiently substantiated why not. It is interesting, however, that Mr Squeakl, in his implementation, has again made many predictions about what will happen, what will happen. Mr Squeakl, once again, all your predictions made in this mandate have not yet been fulfilled. Not one! And I don't believe you this time either, and I can't believe you. The next thing I want to say to you is that you use the same vats for the same themes. Look, yesterday we discussed school laws, where you said the most about not being in line with the unions. And these were the main arguments why you can't support these laws. But here the story is consistent with arguments, all unions, most unions, I apologize, agree with that. And it is easy to say here that despite the fact that the military unions agree, you claim that this is not right, that it needs to be corrected that this is not enough. And to me, in a way, it's enough to listen to these things, because you didn't argue any of the things that I could then vote positive for, just as you want. I'd say once again, let's take into account the same vats. As far as pilots and these deficient professions are concerned, see the regulation also regulates the expanded catalogue of formational duties and titles, the differentiation of jobs in areas and so on. And that was the last time on the committee was made clear. This is being prepared, there will be several classes so that pilots will also be classified into different classes, into different pay classes. Once again, there is no need to change in any way, because I think the law that came to be dealt with today without these amendments is entirely appropriate; and that is also what the soldiers agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Comrade Squeakle Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u139	Mr Member, I propose that we do a survey among the soldiers in Kosovo: would we be in favour of a "no fit" supplement in the income base? Let's do this poll. I'm sure everyone will vote to give 42% for the government. I'm sure! And if they do, I will withdraw and not support this amendment. But, you know, people are bleeding under the skin and people are just going to want to be in line with Sections 6 and 7 of the Income Act in an equal position. They shall carry out the tasks of the European Union in Kosovo. That is why this amendment is needed; this amendment, in conjunction with Article 6, paragraph 7, deals with the matter quite clearly. However, to be clear, there will be no problem for the state budget with such good economic results. But you say no, they need to take 42% of their income. And that's the same story as those people who work at the border with Austria in another country. And for them, of course, Mr Bajuk has found a solution, Members of New Slovenia. Not for Slovenian soldiers in Kosovo! And let's not keep talking about doctors in the military or pilots. About the pilots who, by the way, resigned in the Slovenian Army and went flying to Flycom until they thought Mr Bručan would do a deal for a million 800,000 euros. Mr Hrvat I suggest that you get a little familiar with the documentation, the legislation, the legal status and then the debate. Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia have proposed nothing but what we have in neighbouring Austria, which is in the European Union and we are in the European Union. Only here - I apologize, but - the Minister of Finance did not support the Minister of Defence. But that's not how I want to deal with Mr. Virant. The Minister of Finance should at least promise the same status as he has given it to the employees of neighbouring Austria for the sake of mutual agreement and so on, to give to Slovenian soldiers when they are outside Slovenia. And you solved the problem! And the financial impact will not be too great as this will make the Slovenian Army more efficient, but in particular we will not be left with the soldiers we have educated at our expense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u140	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Ambassador Tomaž Štebet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u141	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Yeah, it's easy to promise and offer more and build demagogies out of it. Dear fellow Member - who, when you offer him a hand and rip his shoulder off even more - should be at least realistic enough to be aware and take into account, in comparison with Slovenia, that we have been behind a lot of fat, probably 100 years for Austria, but at least for 40 or 50 years. And even what we should have done a long time ago to catch up with her, we're just trying. Comparisons are simply not correct - productivity, level of infrastructure development, economy, competitiveness and so on. Not out of this, out of this, incomparable comparison. In fact, paragraph 58 should be read with Article 59. Members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, especially those preparing for serious operational work in the field outside the country, still within the limits of non-offensive action, but in the essence of peaceful, defensive, police-military action, will also receive a special supplement - 30% on the basic salary, in addition to the allowances applicable for at least 10% - 4 payment classes. However, we know that there is also a great difference between individual missions and individual parts in these missions. I think that this is a big step in making these comparisons, which normally happen between people when they participate in these joint missions, in a way that is balanced and so acceptable that then our members are said to be Slovenian citizens, willing to work both in preparation and in direct field operations. The practice itself will show that acceptance, but I think today is also a challenge for these soldiers and soldiers, both in serious preparation and in field operations. A big difference from actually a clean waste of money that we witnessed in the past, when it all eventually faded into activities that had nothing to do with defence readiness or the defence of the country. That way, I won't support this amendment. It is also important to be aware of the overall structure of public financial expenditure on salaries and of the kind of balance that is necessary in regulating these situations, which are regulated in some way gradually and with great difficulty to obtain agreement. I think that this has led to some kind of constructive level and that we should let the law go into our lives, and in this way also in practice, we should check it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u142	Thank you. Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Stebe, Mr. Secretary! The cost - the state budget will be half a percent of what you spent on Patria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u144	Thank you, too. And we're going to continue, but I can't give you replicas on the replica, because you probably know the rules of procedure. Thank you. Member Mitja Slavinec has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u145	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President, colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished Minister! I agree with the conclusion of one of my predecessors that the first step has been taken and because we have waited so long for this first step, I suggest that we make it as long as possible to make it long enough for the second step to have to work urgently and under what very fast conditions. And in order to extend this first step, the amendment will certainly also help, both amendments to Article 58, which we are currently discussing. This article talks about salaries, but I stress that it is not just about wages, it is not just about the money the soldiers get. It is important that we also regulate the status of soldiers and pay is, of course, part of this status that soldiers receive. However, I would like to point out that, of course, what will be the motivation of people for the military profession and how we will avoid the human resources deficit that we already see and which threatens us that it is of course important to regulate all those levels that define the status of soldiers, and thus, of course, it also pays. Let the military profession not just be a choice for those who in this way resolve their social status, their social problem. In most cases, unfortunately, this is often reflected, not least because of this, it is a lot of soldiers from socially more endangered environments, from socially less developed environments. The military profession should be decided by those who, as children, dream of being soldiers, are few, for it will also be true soldiers, and they will do their job and their work so much better. The second point of the amendment, which foresees that this specification of a military profession is regulated by a special law and that, irrespective of the previous paragraph as set out here, it may be classified and taken into account on a proposal from the Minister, the specifics of soldiers and duties or titles in the Slovenian Army in the respective salaries and allowances, leave the Minister on the one hand sufficiently free and, on the other hand, does not break the single system, which I know is under the authority of Minister Virant and possibly the Minister of Finance. The third point, which defines how to evaluate and how to tax the revenues and allowances that soldiers receive for their activities abroad; surely, we have also heard this, is not contrary to any practice or legal order. I also stress the practice, as there are many cases where, in most cases, our officials are, for their work abroad, which they have also done and have been sent abroad with these tasks, as we send soldiers, then, of course, are entitled to the salary income and also to the pension income they receive from this title. And finally let me touch the amendment, which adds a new fourth paragraph. And I stress: see, here's a talk about special areas, so it's that part of the Slovenian Army that's kind of specializing in some of the armies that the Special Forces have also called them. Surely the Slovenian army cannot build its fighting power, nor can we count on it, in great numbers, would it be unwise. This is why it is so important that these soldiers we have are as well trained as we can and that we really have those specialties, that I will not say in the popular language "rambos" that will raise the reputation of the Slovenian Army abroad, operationally capable and should be rewarded accordingly. Also due to exposure to which, say, military divers - this area may be a little bit better known - are exposed and who must be significantly different and highly qualified for the work they are doing. Of course, I don't rule out all the others listed here. And that is why I also support this article, so that in the Slovenian Army we will create an opportunity for those who rise in their area from the average and who are truly soldiers because they want to be, not because they are in this way solving their social situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Member Stana Pike has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u147	Thank you. When I listen to this debate, I cannot help but say that we also adopted the budget a while ago, and then it was those Members who have so much to say today that they hung themselves on the budget of the Ministry of Defence and would be cut to the extreme, if possible, to the extreme. Today, generously in their opposition posture, they offer far more than they can offer. I'm saying once again, the thing is balanced, we've achieved major breakthroughs from 17 to 21. - for four classes, in that percentage - I'm not going to repeat them because I'd be almost inconclusive if I kept repeating them. The fact is, there's great progress. The next time we accept the budget for the military, please give an amendment to increase the salaries of Slovenian soldiers, propose it and we will try to attach our positions members to it. As far as trade unions are concerned, I am also very glad that most trade unions have accepted this and that they agree. Among them, as we have already heard, the pilots' union. True, they are not satisfied, I do not know any system in this world so that all members, if this system is large, will be satisfied. He's just gone. According to Gauss’s curve, some are very satisfied, some on average satisfied, and one is dissatisfied, as is the case with us in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u148	Thank you very much. But the word is given by the Member of the Victory of the Elinčič Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It seems to me that we are talking about a proposal for a law on service in the Slovenian Army, but we are always talking about the status of Slovenian soldiers. It is important to be aware that these are not Slovenian soldiers. These are soldiers of the Slovenian Army, because in accordance with European legislation, we can have anyone else in here. It is said that we will not regulate the status of Slovenian citizens, but, for example, the status of the Portuguese, even those who received Portuguese status 14 days ago when they fled Morocco or something like that. That's why I don't think both of you just can't stand it. The fact is that, despite the fact that it is true that Minister Virant cannot regulate and set wages for specific duties within the Government, this is therefore governed by the Government's envisaged regulation. In fact, point 3 states that these matters are regulated by a government regulation. I am convinced that the Government is listening to this debate and that the Minister will take into account the ideas proposed in the debate and will implement this in the government regulation. I'm sure of it. Well, as far as the amendments are concerned, first of all it is necessary to know that those who want to secure status, social status and social regulation do not join the military. Whoever goes into the army is already kind of fond of this matter. It's not like you're going for a butcher or you're going for a bake sale. One who chooses to be a soldier is a soldier for another reason, primarily for another reason, not because of wages. But if we take people like that or if we take into account that they go to the military people who regulate their social status, in this case it will not be an army, but it will be that so-called Salvation Army that we see in various movies or in England and America when they collect voluntary contributions for this or that thing. The army is an army, that's the specifics, and we can't just leave these things here for long and long. With regard to the amendment prepared by the LDS colleagues. In fact, if we take it, it's just two or three points that they add. However, these points are all a little wider already covered in Article 58. But if we take, let's say, the third point is that we should pay, add-ons and so on for military service outside the country, to deal with the special law, because we can't do that with a special law. In this case, we are bound by European legislation. It's just that we jumped into this pool and here we have to swim. And if a special law were to regulate it here, it wouldn't make sense. After all, for each particular, for example, specialty within the army should have some of its own adjectives and some of its needs. But then, let's say, snipers "wake" because they say, gentlemen, we have such specific training systems that you can't think at all. And that's true; the pilots have different pilots, and the divers have different divers, and the miners have different units, and the engineering units have different units, but it seems that some of the colleagues don't know that. Also, the part of the salary that a soldier earns outside the Republic of Slovenia is not included in the tax base. Okay, but this should be regulated within this government regulation. I think it's possible. And in accordance with existing legislation, which regulates these matters to a certain extent or rather well. With regard to the amendment signed by Mr Juri, I do not know why he has put in this amendment as something particularly burdensome to fly control. Flight control is no longer a burdensome factor. In civil aviation, aviation control also unfairly receives certain additives and ratings because it is based on the old cases when the radar antenna was actually above the controllers' heads. That's not true long ago, gentlemen. And actually flying control is -- it's a very responsible function, but it's not so burdensome that we should mark and process it in here in particular. Also military health personnel. Military health personnel have always been specific, but not so many specifics that they would require something here - anyway. I think that all these segments can well cover this regulation of the Government, where I hope that the Government will take account of these comments it has heard here today. When I look at the explanation of my colleagues in the Liberal Democracy, I think, but I'm having a little laugh that military service and so on, the indemnity of military service is at stake, a military person is and will be obliged to carry out his duties even when her life is at risk. According to the requirements of the service, a military person will be obliged to use firearms and other group weapons and so on. These are soldiers, it's logical that this is necessary and the soldier has decided to be a soldier, according to his own judgment, no one has forced him! But if someone's decided to get their status fixed, that's his risk. There were also cases in England when soldiers went to the army, and then they didn't want to go to the battlefield, but they were sanctioning themselves according to everything, but not that they were here looking for something, almost a man would say excuses on the basis of some non-governmental peace institutes. Even after exposure to war horrors. Civil populations and the civilian population are also exposed to war atrocities, as war of atrocities usually takes place in civilian populations, not on members of, say, the opposite military forces. That's why I don't think both amendments deserve any support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u150	Thank you. Member Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u151	Thank you very much again. I'd tell my colleague Anderlich that I'm not as good a defense expert as he is. And I think it's hard to follow that when I listened to your debate earlier. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] But I know that the labour market is for all professions in Slovenia, not only in Slovenia, on the European parquet, and it was and will be. Finally, it is not right to compare the pilot in the Slovenian Army and Adria, each having its own positive and negative sides [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] Money is important, but it is not the only and most important criteria. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Is there any other desire to discuss it? I'm reopening the circle. I'm asking you to sign up. Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u153	Thank you. I will take this opportunity to explain a few more to my colleagues who have not followed our discussions. Colleague Jelinčič: Flight controllers, like other specific professions, do not intend to be rewarded for the burden, but because of the specific, specific knowledge and responsibilities that are greatly appreciated and invited by these employees. If these profiles are leaking, of course, action must be taken to ensure that they remain. And the data shows that they're leaving, not just flight controllers, but pilots and others. I would say to my colleague Pajko that when we propose a reduction in the budget of the Ministry of Defence, we are proposing, not in the section of wages, but in particular unnecessary and pointless investments. And we're going to go, this has already happened, to invest in equipment, weapons, ammunition and other very expensive systems that then turn out to be missing investments. And, my colleague Štebet, I was surprised to learn that from the Slovenian Democratic Party, which, after almost three years of rule, shows Slovenia on its way to the lighthouse of Europe that it is so poorly valued and placed for 40, even 100 years for Austria. We were just in the old Federation for Austria, and we were about to catch up with her, and today we're supposed to be back that way. This is not the case, of course there are differences in gross social product, productivity and elsewhere, but it is the fact that, in particular, the solution proposed by the Liberal Democrats establishes a single system that is being relatively applied. We will not catch up and assure our soldiers the wages they have in Austria, but the system must be the same. I also predict that this time we will support the amendment of the colleagues of the Liberal Democrats, even if it is accepted, it will be of no value to us and we will sacrifice it. But it seems to me that such a solution deserves our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u154	Thank you very much. We've got two replicas, first of all, Mr. Ambassador Winning Jelinčič the Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u155	Thank you very much. But Mr. Yuri again showed a lack of knowledge of the subject. It is true that there is a need for specific knowledge and responsibility in the field of aviation control, but the necessary specific knowledge and responsibility are also borne by pilots which you have not mentioned. You listed only aviation technical personnel, which means something else. These are, say, mechanics, guns and things like that. But I understand you don't know that. There is one thing you do not know that in the Republic of Slovenia, controllers do not leave. In fact, controllers are more than jobs. Some other people are leaving, but that's another story.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u156	Thank you. And the replica has a Member of State Pike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u157	Thank you. I've been appointed and challenged and it's the right thing to say. There were a lot of amendments to the budget, and if half of those amendments, this is such a rough estimate, they were executed, even the Slovenian soldier would not have to because he would not have had military equipment, because it would not have been easy because they would have taken everything away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u158	Thank you very much. However, Member Tomaž Šteba has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u159	Thank you so much for saying that. Actually, I asked for a replica, Mr. Vice President. I was appointed by my colleague Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u160	Comrade Straba, you can sit down and I'll give you a replica and you'll get up again.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u161	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u162	Comrade Straba, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's true that I applied to the replica a little later, so I apologize for this awkwardness. But a colleague of Juri spoke about the centuries-long backlog of Slovenia for Austria. Even in the previous century, Slovenia was at the level of development of Sweden and Austria. Maybe you should shorten this century's period to, say, 40 years and 10 years at a time. Definitely productivity is still quite something - 100% of the country's productivity gap, not to mention income per capita, but in particular the development of infrastructure and the development of the country's own development. There's no way to make up for things at the moment. However, the fact is that these circumstances must also be taken into account and the worst part of all this wage talk is that not even the entire wage framework in Slovenia is taken into account in relation to the specifics and that it is not possible to make large exceptions here, because it then causes appetites and justified demands by some others. In the service itself and in the work performed by soldiers and support staff, however, there is in particular a great difference in the responsibility of what someone is doing, because this responsibility is linked to the threat of possible human lives and major accidents, and to those works performed by soldiers in the operational work where their lives are at risk. It's hard to get it all together under the same denominator. One vehicle driver is probably much more at risk than a commander at an operating centre, for example, somewhere in Afghanistan and things simply cannot be thrown into one basket. And maybe if you let me, because I still have time, I'd answer this constant-repetition flissule. All that's covered by the amendments is half a percent of a patriot, I don't know if that's really worth 100,000 euros, then we wouldn't really talk about it. If I'm a respected colleague of Squeak, who calculated it very quickly - or maybe all the patriots. Then multiply it by 130 or something.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u164	Mr. Stabe, at this point, I need to stop you. Thank you very much. Comrade Straba, if you please, I invite you again to your word because you have made your decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me finish this thought. To talk about some part of the percentage of all the effects on wages by these two amendments is unfair and demagogic comparison. Why do soldiers even need high-quality vehicles? So that their lives are not at risk. Quality equipment, functioning equipment in special circumstances is the essence of what a soldier or firefighter really needs. And besides skill, knowledge is one of the main elements of the safe and successful operation of, say, soldiers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Comrade Squekel, I didn't understand. Do you have a procedure? In the part where my colleague Šteba decided to discuss you, he didn't appoint you, so I can't give you a replica. He named you in the replica. As you know, I can't give you a replica of the replica. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Believe me, I'm not going to do that, because then I'm going to have to break the Rules of Procedure in less fun. We continue the debate. Anyone who wants to talk or participate in the debate will be able to reopen the circle. Member Mitja Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u167	Of course, I'm not going to argue with my colleague Jelinčič about pilots and controllers. I am sure that he knows this matter very well, and I also agree that certainly the work of pilots or flight controllers is now significantly different than it used to be. However, I would like to point out once again that some of these amendments, specifically for divers, are not about diving, but about special units, about those who need special skills, I stress that they are not about diving in terms of recreational diving, as many of us are diving here, but about avoiding being spotted on the surface by the enemy, diving with special blends, such as a mixture of closed circuits, which is also more dangerous, which requires additional training, and therefore I think it makes sense at least in this part to support this amendment. The second thing is more important, because it covers a wide range of soldiers - the decision why they choose to serve in the military. Surely there are areas in Slovenia where this is not a social reason. I agree and I am glad that this is the case, but I am warning that there are areas where the social reason is one of the main motives. And I have also pointed out in the previous debate that these are not the soldiers that we can count on and that we must not strive for such soldiers, but we want and we must strive for the soldiers who will decide for this profession because of their beliefs, inclinations and because they want to be. And these amendments that we are proposing certainly contribute to the fact that we will have more than one such soldier. Last but not least, since we have also heard that those who decide for the military because of their social status are at a personal risk. Yes, I agree. But that also confirms that we have one. And this is also confirmed by statistics, if you look at where the soldiers come from, if you look at which areas we have the most members of the Slovenian Army. And for the end, maybe just our backlog for Austria. As the first neighbor, I can tell you that we have not been behind them for a hundred years, but even if we were 200 years behind them, I would rather stay in Slovenia than in Austria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Replica, Member of Victory Jelinčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Dude, I wasn't talking about divers not being specialists. Of course they are, and they're great specialists. They must be if we want to use them in the military. However, I was talking about one other matter, and I was saying that this should be regulated by the Government's regulation, which is already mentioned in Article 58(3), but not to adopt some amendment prepared by a colleague of Juri, who is somehow written from all ends and places. And one more thing. The social reason must not be a guide to joining the army, and even the military must not be simply for us to fill the number of soldiers - we must not just take, say, from the social bottom of the people who would be soldiers. I mean, you went into a bit of a debate, but basically that's it. That is why I said that I do not support these amendments, because these amendments are precisely what the fourth point of this amendment of my colleagues in the Liberal Democracy would involve those people who are at the social bottom and would then, on a certain occasion, as we know the cases from the world's armies, at a time when something has to be done, withdraw from military service or domestically deserted.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u170	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Member Anton Anderlich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u171	I understand the coalition, and I also understand the satellites that support it and reject the amendments because there are concrete reasons why; but sometimes about this. But, Mr. Pike, holy forgiveness leads you to get rid of such a statement. Put an amendment in the budget and we'll pay the soldiers. Yes, but it is forbidden by this law to do so because there are restrictions because it is a system, because you cannot We want exactly what the Government or the Ministry has already published on the websites on 5.10.2006. [[...]] Well, by the way, even you as vice-president of the committee or I as chairman of the committee couldn't get any different material in the law-making phase, as if we had served it off the website, and then they withdrew it. But it already said it was about pay, work outside the country, and so on. That was already in the marriage. And this is about comparability with other countries, with members of the military in other countries, with people in the service of armies of other countries. If it can be specifically regulated in comparable countries as you wanted to, why has Mr Virant or anyone already prevented certain professions from being specifically regulated within the Slovenian Army - I don't know. But apparently it's gone from these materials. We just want to do this and leave the regulations to some things to be regulated, it is too difficult for the government and the minister alone, because something will come back to light if something is decided differently for soldiers and certain professions within the military. However, if this is in law, it is a responsibility which is assumed by this Parliament on behalf of the Slovenian public and I support it. And, of course, when it comes to comparability with other countries, even when it comes to the part of income that is in paragraph 4, because also here I see that it is generalised and rejected with some cynicism - it is a written arrangement from domestic law and the regulation of certain other areas. And this country for some other professions, for some other employees, does not do so for soldiers. Why - I don't know. As is comparability for those involved in peacekeeping operations that meet with our soldiers or in Kosovo, or Bosnia, or Afghanistan, or anywhere else where people are compared, what is paid, what are additives, what is taxable, at whatever rates and so on. And that's all we stand for, nothing else. So, the responsibility to postpone for some later time that now is not the right time, that is one step forward and so on, and that the government will already fix everything. If the government could arrange this, it would come with that content of the regulation, and we would discuss it and say, "OK, settle this with a regulation, but put as many things as possible that determine this status into law."
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I'm gonna open up another application circuit. Here you go. I'm asking you to sign up. Member Tomaž Šteba has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, this topic of economic and social reasons, which is supposed to lead some candidates for professional soldiers, is interesting; it is in this context that in some ways this cannot be the only reason - whether it pays or social status, the inability to get another suitable job, to decide that someone should join the Slovenian Army. This would certainly not be the right purpose, for today's role, especially the Slovenian Army and Slovenian soldiers, especially abroad and at home, is humanitarian - not even so peaceful - because soldiers, when they are not in operational, for example, peace operations, I am sure that they will come to the aid of any humanitarian needs, if they can do so even with regard to the duties they have. And here would be an invitation for all those young people to join the Slovenian Army for a period of time and serve part of their role in this way, and in some way through the service in the Slovenian Army grow up to be an adult, a husband, a wife. In the world, it is quite common, given that the military are professional, that young people choose to do real humanitarian work, let's say for one year. Unfortunately, there is more and more to what colleague Jelinčič expects from members of the Slovenian Army: belonging to the state and membership to be a soldier or an honor to be a soldier to defend the country. Now, Slovenian soldiers are more or less active in humanitarian and peace operations, which are generally not offensive or any form of action in terms of the active use of weapons. I would point out once again that, in this context, it is simply not possible - if some colleagues - to act so unmarketably as to raise wages or benefits disproportionately and somehow spoil this relationship of soldiers who are supposed to serve the military primarily for the sake of honour to serve the country, which is increasingly less present than value, unfortunately, there is nothing wrong with serving for socio-economic reasons as well, but not only for these reasons. And with too high or too long a step, as my fellow Slavinec put it, we could take a step too quickly here. And I think it is most appropriate that we actually see how this progress in how even in the monetary sense is rewarded by soldiers, and that those who actually operate under special conditions in preparation or in missions, in order to enable them to pay up to 30% more, to wait for actual practice and then also in some way to regulate matters and enable the completion of the Slovenian Army also in future action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Member Stana Pike has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u175	One more time, I've been named before, I thought I'd get a replica, but it didn't work. Okay, well, I'll tell you in a regular debate. If you're looking from the opposition pole, it's always too small - that's what I wanted to say earlier. Although I think the law is balanced. It is true that not all money is not enough and I agree with my colleague Jelinčič that if he wants to be a good soldier, he must also feel at heart that he is a soldier and must stand up for all those military things, the virtues that a good soldier must have. It's not all about the money. But the fact is that when we were adopting the budget - that's what I was trying to stress - it was attacked by many angles of view with amendments only to reduce it. That's what I was gonna say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u176	Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u177	Thank you very much. From 2007 the statistical portrait of Slovenia is 83.6 GDP per capita per 100 % of the European Union, Austria 123 GDP, 40 percentage points behind. If that's the case, why the Austrians? The Austrian soldiers pay no taxes on the supplements, and our 42, that's all you gentlemen have to do. [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and if you accept the amendment, you will align Slovenian soldiers with others who are employed in the institution of the European Union - and guarantee them the same status. [[..]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u178	Member Drago Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u179	Good day to all those who persist in this hall. First of all, I must say on behalf of our entire parliamentary group that we are glad to have the Service Act in the Slovenian Army before us today, because we agree with the debaters who said that we have waited a long time for this step. My friend Slavinac said so beautifully, we waited so long for the first step, to make it longer. I would ask myself, too, whether this government alone is responsible for waiting so long for this step. I think it is clear to everyone that the situation in the field of the Slovenian Armed Forces has been deteriorating for a long time, that this has not happened, that I will say what I will say on the date of the elections, the last national elections and the appointment of a new government. The preparation itself, including the first consideration of the law, and the drafting of the law, I think that was very positive, that all those who were supposed to have a word in the drafting of such a law were involved, and that it was achieved, as far as such an agreement was concerned, the greatest possible agreement. I am convinced that the law that we have before us today is balanced; at least I think it is the most balanced, which is possible at a given time. And if I go to the amendment or amendment that we have before us today, I can say that the amendments are very attractive. Surely everyone who is in the Slovenian Army today would be very pleased if everyone in this Chamber "compressed" for this amendment. However, I must immediately add that I am personally convinced that this would undermine this balance, which I think is currently in the text of this law. Be assured that, I would say, it weighs a lot and looks for the optimal solution that is the best right now. Why do I think balance would be broken? When we compare this law with ours, it is right to compare it more broadly, to compare it with other countries of the European Union, neighbouring countries, not only with them, but also within Slovenia. It is true that a soldier is a special status and that, in fact, it is wrong to include him and compare him with only public servants. I fully agree with this, but we also need to have one balance within us, because I have to say, before there was talk about pilots, and medical personnel, that they are uncompetitive in the military, that they go elsewhere - hold this. And I think that, at least in part, we are eliminating this non-competitiveness, but there is still a lot of competition within Slovenia, including in various areas. I will say, even if the public administration is compared with the employed experts in the economy, here too probably the government has to prepare slowly for the experts from the public administration to leave, leave it and go to better paid jobs elsewhere. But there's no point in talking about it in particular today. But it is right that we have this in mind when we talk about this proposed amendment. I'd like to touch this status as a soldier. This is, for my understanding, an area where we should all build a little bit more together. It is not enough to recruit members of the Slovenian Army only with money. I say a kilowad will be such an army. But we must bring people to the Slovenian Army who will be soldiers with the heart. To those who feel this profession to become soldiers. Personally, I must say that today's debate of the Yelinčič Victory is, even though I do not agree with it many times, but today I must say that I would hope to have everything he has said signed for myself. In Slovenia, I am convinced that we have people who would like to go to the Slovenian Army, if they were properly encouraged at the right time, saying, with proper presentation, with some promotion and so on, that this inner sense or your inner voice would be heard and hoped to be realized. As far as this amendment is concerned, I do not think it is necessary for us to accept it today, because this would cause too much problems mainly within the administration. We all know how they jumped into the "louft" cops when it started to work, and I don't mean to say that they just jumped into the air, but a solution like that, I think the current state is appropriate. It is likely, however, that the need for a late change will also manifest itself. I think that this law also has certain mechanisms for the government to be able to correct certain things on its own. If necessary, there will also be a change in the National Assembly. So much for now. Maybe later.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Comrade Anderlich, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u181	Only two explanations, Mr. Pajk. No amendment has been adopted in the National Assembly, nor has it been proposed. Second, Mr. Root. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Now the balance is shattered by the fact that the part of the payment that is due abroad does not absolve the benefit. In no way would it affect anything, on the contrary, it would be stimulation. If you read the amendment, point 4, you will see what it refers to. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u182	Comrade Pike, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u183	Yes, of course, colleague Anderlich is not listening. I told him earlier, because I didn't say you put an amendment on the payroll, but something else. If all those amendments were accepted, even a Slovenian soldier would not be necessary because he would not have a weapon because he would not have money, and then he would not have to pay. That's what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u184	Thank you. This concludes the debate in conjunction with Article 58 and the amendments of the two different groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on Article 96 and the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk about it? [[Nobody.]] I also conclude the debate in connection with this Article. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 24th agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a declaration of support for international efforts to prevent cassette bombs and other cassette ammunition causing unacceptable damage to the civilian population. I would like to inform you that we have an expected 55-minute debate on this point. The proposal for a declaration was tabled by the Defence Committee for consideration by the assembly and I give the floor to Mr Anton Anderlich, Chairman of the Committee, for an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u185	Your Honor! Clearly, it is a coincidence that we are talking about this issue today, quite symbolically. After all, on the one hand, we talked about the need to regulate the status of service in the Slovenian Army so that the soldiers could be prepared and that their expectations could be applied when it comes to their status, to intervene in the least peacekeeping operations, at least in crisis areas, wherever they are, or when they are ready at home. On the other hand, the initiative to support a declaration that appeals to citizens and citizens of each country individually, which appeals to all the free-thinking, peaceful people of this planet to join us as the Slovenian Parliament of an initiative that has been going on for a long time. During the last period, Austria's most active Parliamentary President and the President of the Belgian Parliament have already been a type of activity in which our government or representatives of our country have been involved. I will also say below how this declaration has been drafted. When this initiative, although already known in the Republic of Slovenia, is an attempt to restrict production and trade in cluster bombs, I would be much more pleased to talk about a complete ban on the production and sale of cluster bombs. We ourselves have experience, for example, from the 1991 war, especially in Medvedjek, when it came to bombs that were thrown by the Yugoslav Army at the time and that is why some people died or were disabled and so on. But in the world, there are some countries that are big, important, decisive and are manufacturers and dealers with these bombs and are not committed to it. And I will say otherwise, it prevents the adoption of such a convention that would prevent, as I said, production and trade, for example, following the example of an ottrac declaration or convention that speaks of the prohibition of the production and use of anti-personnel mines. Over the past 30 years, according to some data, more than 11,000 people have died from cluster bombs, and countless of them have been injured, and there are secret disabled people, even when it comes to children. I believe that this is an extremely positive position and way of thinking in the Republic of Slovenia, and I believe that the National Assembly will, on a proposal from the Committee which has also made this declaration, after the Secretary of the Committee has basically prepared it, have completed it with a slight addition by the Government or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will, in fact, ease the initial requirement and the expectation that, however, - because I say, the majority of the members of the Committee had the belief that they should take the longer and larger step, but after we have adopted the Committee as a single correction of the proposal as you have on the table. I believe it is necessary to welcome these efforts, perhaps even more outspokenly, even in connection with the part where we talk about weapons, when we talk about the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces, when we talk about the involvement of Slovenian soldiers in peace operations, especially when we talk about the activities of representatives of our country, at various conferences, at various international meetings, where there is a belief that we should eliminate, in a particular case, the cluster bomb, and probably some other weapon that causes only woe and is not intended primarily for defence. [[..]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Peace and the acquisition of civilization. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views on the proposal for a declaration. The position of the SDS Group will be given by Member Stane Pajk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u187	Your Honor! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group joins the initiative to limit the use of cluster bombs or other cluster munitions, as this ammunition causes great irreparable damage to the civilian population. It harms the civilian population because it is incorrect when used, as explosive bodies from the cassette disperse across a large area and therefore the issue of the target is inaccurate and unselective. Such use results in large-scale civilian casualties. When I use cassettes myself, I'm not going to explode from 5% to 30%, so they turn into dangerous infantry mines that mostly cause civilian casualties. Many times these victims are children. Demining these explosive bodies is expensive and dangerous. It follows that cluster bombs are not only dangerous for soldiers, but especially for the civilian population. Cluster bombs are controversial weapons from a humanitarian point of view and under applicable international law so far are not prohibited. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group therefore supports any initiative aimed at reducing civilian casualties and therefore supports the proposal for this declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Aurelio Juri will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u189	Of course, we support the Social Democrat Declaration, just as we support every initiative and activity that disarms society in particular with weapons that do not serve the defence and that kill or harm innocent people, mass or individual. One of these weapons is cluster bombs that we've heard of, and many also know what destructive effects they have even when the war is over. As we join in the effort to ban these weapons internationally, we regret that this ban has not yet happened that cluster bombs are still widely produced and used today, for the last year in Lebanon; that they are in the European Union itself, these are Poland and Romania, which do not agree with this document. That his fate, or the fate of the international and municipal communities, the agreed bans on cluster munitions continue to produce great powers, in particular the United States, which, without shame and in mocking of the judgment of international law that it is an inhumane weapon, and in the ridicule of statistics that say that these weapons have killed at least 11,000 civilians in the last 30 years, among them a large number of children and crippled tens of thousands of others, defend their relevance and necessity. We, the Social Democrats, are pleased to see that, despite the opposition of the United States to this declaration, our government has placed our government among its supporters, and we would be even more pleased if we have consistently started this effort with our activities, particularly within the EU and NATO, in order to continue international disarmament efforts, including with regard to ballistic and other nuclear missile systems, and in this context propose to partners to say "no" to the American anti-balistic shield project on the European soil itself and all counter-measures in terms of appropriate weapons announced or announced by the Russian Federation. Europe and the world are in front of a new threatening arms spiral and are not allowed to remain silent. On Monday, I sought out the Government regarding the position it intends to advocate on this issue. It is not enough to strive for a uniform or unifying position within the European Union, we must also contribute to the rejection of this position, in line with the peace and disarmament efforts to which each developed and advanced society swears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u190	Thank you, too. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u191	Respectable. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we are pleased that the coalition has allowed this point to be placed on the agenda. When it came to the National Assembly, of course, following the procedure which was laid down in the Rules of Procedure, this issue was placed on the agenda of the Defence Committee, but the coalition or coalition Members rejected this debate without explanation. And yet, thank you to the President of the National Assembly, who intervened and then recommitted the Defence Committee to deal with this and to prepare a position or declaration of hearing in the National Assembly. Today we have this opportunity, and we welcome it, and we are glad that the coalition has in this case changed its mind and joined in such a noble action as, say, this movement, which is now present in more than 100 countries. And they are involved, as I said before, both the highest representatives of power and the civilian population, all those who believe that somewhere should be started or continued with the restriction and prohibition of certain deadly weapons and all that is basically harmful, primarily designed to cause harm to those who are not involved in direct conflicts. So it's meant for those who are, some call them collateral damage, but it's suffering thousands or hundreds of thousands, or more, people. We would be more pleased if Slovenia could take a decisive step and say - Slovenia joins initiatives, some of them, of course, are also such as to approach a complete ban on the production, trade and use of cluster bombs. We simply couldn't do it, as I said before, and we joined the Committee's unified support. Because I could say something better than nothing, because it threatened that Slovenia would remain a gray fox on the map of those countries where these activities are rapidly unfolding and where individual political actors also listen, not only to those who are manufacturers, traders and sowers of these bombs. Unfortunately, it is difficult to understand here, say this layman, and I am certainly a layman in this area, because the production of military weapons, bombs and all these things freezes me before, rather than having an understanding of some of the discussions about why one was high or not, there are also countries that are smaller and, of course, are producers and sellers of this weapon. And we say, we're not going to, I say, put it more radically. However, I think that for Slovenia this would be a very appropriate moment and gesture, because experience, negative experience with using cluster bombs on Slovenian soils are still alive. And even the victims of these cluster bombs are already alive or victims are not, those who have been injured can, of course, be said to be a mine victim, but it is not necessary to die because of this, but it is a victim and is damaged and these cases, and I know them personally, so there is no embarrassment here. As it is said in the House of Representatives, we will be pleased to support this declaration, and I believe that in the next activities, as I know, representatives from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also be able to participate in this position in the following activities, which have already been in the summer, as a state that looks forward and contributes to global peace, and also to military conflicts, if necessary or necessary, and that this is still only to military forces, but not to extend to the civilian population.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Member Drago Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u193	In the New Slovenia Group, we unanimously support the proposal for a declaration to support efforts to ban cluster bombs and other cluster munitions that cause unacceptable harm to the civilian population. The acceptance of this declaration is the least that this National Assembly can do and by making its contribution only to the international ban on the use of these funds. The consequences of the use of cluster bombs and other cluster munitions, I think we all understand. We can only remember the secluded war and scenes at Medvedjek in the municipality of Trebnje. In Novi Slovenija we are disturbed because the title of the declaration ultimately states "which causes unacceptable harm to the civilian population". Because we are convinced that these bombs and these ammunition are also causing damage to the soldiers. They also make sense to prohibit the use of these funds. On the other hand, any damage is not only priceless, but enough reason to accept the declaration. Like I said, accepting a declaration costs us nothing. But I want all of us, both the National Assembly and the Government, to take our steps. Any smallest contribution to the conclusion of a legally binding international instrument is the objective we want to pursue. In New Slovenia we will support the declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u194	Thank you very much. My colleague Kristijan Janc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u195	Thank you very much again. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that any measure aimed at limiting the production of weapons or limiting the use of these weapons is a welcome solution to this problem. Each individual has the right to live in a secure environment. We are also striving to adopt a resolution prohibiting cluster bombs and other cluster munitions that cause unacceptable harm to the civilian population and thus legally insure the position of the individual. We agree with the conclusions of the conference on cluster munitions held in Oslo in February. We also support the conclusions of the 3rd Annual Meeting of Parliament Speakers, which took place in New York in March this year. It is an initiative on global support for the ban on cluster bombs and other cluster munitions. As we are aware of the consequences of the use of these long-term bombs, we advocate a ban on the use, manufacture, transport, storage and production of cluster bombs and other cluster munitions that harm civilians, and support the call of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare appropriate legislation to prohibit cluster bombs and other cluster munitions. This would involve the Republic of Slovenia in the international humanitarian network, which is seeking a global ban on these weapons, to help and ensure adequate care and rehabilitation of victims, education on the risk of stockpiles of prohibited cluster munitions and the protection of the civilian population against the unnecessary consequences of these weapons. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore advocate the adoption of appropriate legislation to prohibit cluster bombs and other cluster munitions, and we believe that this would be an important step towards greater human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Ambassador Zmago Jelinčič will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It seems that none of the debaters so far know what a cassette bomb is and what a cassette gun is. Today, the biggest hit in all members of the NATO Pact is just a tape gun. Why? Because you can selectively operate on certain tank units or other motorized units with certain cluster bombs, where each individual missile focuses on just one of these vehicles. I think that when we accept this declaration, which makes no sense, we are doing something similar to what we did to the idea of an English princess that we have acceded to the international declaration banning anti-personnel mines, and then we had to quietly withdraw our signature. There's gonna be something like this. We're in the NATO Pact, and that's how it is. The fact is that this agreement will never be signed by the United States of America, the Russian Federation, China and most of the countries in the NATO Pact. They just won't because this segment is the most evolving weapon segment. Why? Because with precision it causes the least unacceptable damage. Although it is questionable what this means for the civilian population to suffer unacceptable harm. But getting a splitter in your kidney is acceptable, tearing his leg off is unacceptable. I mean, the address is stupid. It shows a lack of knowledge of the subject and shows that this matter was made up of some non-governmental organizations that have probably not seen one cluster bomb close by and do not even know what it is. In the event of such widespread altruistic support, then let us ban all wars. We can adopt certain acts hundreds of times that are supposed to be legally binding and international, but wars will happen and yet weapons will be used. Only international acts prohibit the use of certain segments of weapons, but this is not a case-by-case issue. This is about not knowing the subject. And even if some countries have made a commitment in Oslo to adopt a legally binding act by the end of 2008, this does not mean that any of this will be done. The set of these countries is one that has no special weight. It's worse when it comes to unexploded combat assets. But that's something else. When the cassette bomb is fired and a certain missile falls to the ground and does not blow it up, it is a special segment, a non-exploded murder weapon, which is controlled by other means and otherwise, as indicated here. I think it is right that we participate in various forums to talk about this, to clear things up, but let an expert be heard. Let one of your colleagues see what these things look like. What is it, anyway? But not so much in mind, we'll come up against everything, against all weapons, we'll back up. When, for example, we use such cassette ammunition to protect, say, Slovenian soldiers in Afghanistan or elsewhere, will you give up that ammunition? And you'd rather sacrifice Slovenian soldiers, just to be right, because some declaration made by some peace institutes has confirmed this matter. I think it's very pointless, very incomplete in mind and thus supporting certain declarations that no one really knows what this is or very rarely knows. We heard in the debate that some people don't really know how the bombs work and so on, but we're still against it. I think it's an old-fashioned thought. Let's take a look at things and think about it. Do not jump into the n acceptance of an agreement or the adoption of a declaration that we will certainly have to deny in time at the request of ours, such as ours, Nate's allies and other countries in the European Union. We do not support such nonsense in the Slovenian National Party. Let them bring up a matter that will drink water, not just like that. Next time, we can expect someone to demand a ban on vehicles. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] with internal combustion engines, because this is also harmful. [[...]] And at the end of the day, every year, so many and so many people ride to their death. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u198	A colleague of mags. Franc Žnidaršič will give his position to the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u199	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Our Group of Members will support the declaration without reservation. We are pleased that efforts in international practice and in space are increasingly in this direction. It is that part of the use of cluster bombs directed against the civilian population. And there are also more consequences in the area of civilian casualties than in direct war conflicts. As a result, it is high time for the international public, as it may be called, to unite and formulate a requirement to prohibit the use of cluster bombs. You all know that it's ammunition, killings that lie unexploded and pose a permanent threat to the population that lives there, with all the consequences. It is known that this is something similar to mined fields with infantry bombs, which have also claimed huge casualties in the Bosnia area and in our very recent history we have a direct picture of the consequences of some of the injuries caused by the use of cluster bombs. Therefore, of course, the joint decision towards absolute support for the declaration is certainly fair, a good decision and is supported by our Group of Members. That way, at least everyone can hope that something will also come from this in the direction of a ban within the international framework. With this thought we wish to accompany this declaration with our support with great approval. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u200	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Here comes the debate on the proposal for a declaration. The word is Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u201	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. I myself will support the proposal for a declaration, which, of course, is intended to prohibit, not restrict, but to prohibit the use of cluster bombs and other cluster munitions, and therefore Slovenia is very supportive of the effort to take an important step forward in the process that would lead to an international ban on cluster bombs and cluster munitions as a whole. Today, as part of the presentation of the initiative that Slovenia accepts and actively approaches for this declaration, the international community has sought to adopt this declaration, thereby preventing both production and the consequent use of this ammunition. I think that Slovenia, as the next President of the European Union, can be one of the initiators for the adoption of this declaration and one that, in an area that is very close to us with experience in the use of various firearms, has seen the consequences of the use of such ammunition in the Western Balkans, that is, in a war that is very close to us. Of course, the story is so much sadder when the remnant of such ammunition or the use of such ammunition affects those who are innocent, that is, innocent victims and the remnants of such ammunition often cause either death or disability and the suffering of those who are of the civilian population. So it's a completely innocent victim. At the same time, the use of such ammunition is linked to the injury of those who are at war. That is why I think it is justified that, in the light of the videos that we can watch on television and the experiences that have been in our immediate vicinity in the near past, based on the use of these munitions, Slovenia, Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia take an active role in promoting a joint international decision to ban both production and the use of this ammunition. Therefore, I think it is extremely important that Slovenia is one of those countries which, at a very early stage with the adoption of this declaration, takes the lead and allows the debate to continue in the international space and, of course, the adoption of this declaration within the framework of the international community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u202	Thank you, too. Member Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u203	It probably should not be necessary to re-emphasize my position, but, since something has been said just like that, I must make it very clear that I am pleased to belong to those groups of people who are inclined to debate and active efforts to eliminate as many weapons and things as possible in the world, such as cluster bombs or the kind of ammunition we are talking about. I am also pleased that the Government, in its opinion which it has forwarded today, has also said that it is joining and that it is in the debates about these documents that are being produced, namely, the Protocols to the Geneva Conventions, of course, to others initiated once, twice, and finally to a country that has concluded the Presidency a few days ago, presented a proposal for a new protocol that will be experienced in the coming months, probably not this half of the year, even during the Slovenian Presidency, especially some dynamics and some debate that could only be proud of the Slovenian state. And that's what counts most, whether someone here is also expressing themselves in a way that we're all fools who don't understand or follow his. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Member Stana Pike has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u205	Thank you. I think I've said a lot myself, almost everything about what's to be said. But I can also say that I am pleased that the vast majority of the members of the Group have confirmed their support for this declaration, because it is actually a cluster munitions that causes the most casualties to the civilian population. Children are also common victims of this cluster munitions. That's because it doesn't explode and because it's unselective because it's discarded so it falls to a large surface and it's not selective. Yes, but to my colleague Anderlich, when he said that the government and the SDS Group did not support this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u206	Comrade Pajk, you know that the position of the parliamentary groups is not debated. This is what the Rules of Procedure say, and not least, for several years now, we have had this practice in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u207	Okay. But I can just say, I'm not going to argue. However, I say that the SDS Group did not withdraw this declaration from the agenda because it disagreed with the content, but did not agree with the method of proposing. That was the reason, and later we Members themselves demanded that this content be returned to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u208	Thank you very much. In the end, I'm obliged to call the proposer if he wants a word. [[No, no, ……]] All the debaters who wanted it got their word. I think we have a few more minutes to discuss. Anybody? One. Comrade Aurelio Yuri, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u209	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm joining my colleague Anderlich's words. We have a large majority in this Chamber that will support this declaration and a small group that will not follow it. This small group, which accuses supporters of not getting acquainted with this material, would like to report that the declaration was made not only out of pension species but also in cooperation with the profession. We also checked it in the client's office with our defense attorneys. They know the matter, they know what it's about. Even if someone loves guns and gets to know him a little bit more, accusing everyone else of having no idea about it is inappropriate. Although I am also afraid, and I am here to join these fearsome parties that it may happen that tomorrow, due to the pressures of the United States of America and others, we will prevail for the sake of the interests that we must coordinate with them, as we have already done in the nuclear-weapon-free world initiative, we also know how to get off this train. It's just like what happened to the Elves' statement, and it's never happened before. I hope that after Parliament has voted on this declaration and supported that it will also gain such weight that the government will not accept any other moves tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u210	Thank you very much. The size of one group or another will show the vote. However, as no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a declaration, the assembly will take a decision on the proposal for a declaration in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the votes. That's half an hour after the end of the 24th agenda. This also interrupts this agenda item. And we're moving on to 8. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the gradual closure of the poultry by the grower and the developmental restructuring of the region. I'd like to inform you that we have an estimated 40 minutes for this point. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Bogdan Barovic. With regard to this bill, the Committee on the Economy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I give the floor first to the representative of the applicants for further explanation of the bill to Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! During this time you also received an expert analysis of the economic institute of the Faculty of Law, which was argued by doctors of science led by recognised Dr. Francie Križanič. This is the first argument and I ask you to listen to the arguments and to take the arguments into account. There's no politics, there's no bullshit, there's no fiction, there's no argument. In Trbovje we have a Thermoelectric Trbovlje, which the Minister himself said at the meeting on 26 June is the ideal position. Secondly, in Trbovlje we have the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine, which is modernly equipped. The proof of modern equipment is the ISO standard announced by Mr Dimnik on 3 July this year and said: "The quality assessment has been successful and today we will witness the award of the certificate. Quality assessment means upgrading, indicators talking about quality of business, cost reduction and, in general, business excellence, which is displayed outside." These are the words of Mr Dimnik spoken on 3 July in the company Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik. This is the kind of company described in these words you want to close. The law before you prolongs the closure from 2015 to 2017 and extends production from 2005 until 2007. The law does not, I stress, increase public funds to this end. The argument. Another time. The law reduces annual funds from the public treasury for this purpose, reduces funds from the public treasury. Third time. The law will allow for more accumulated coal and €40 million more revenue. Fourth time. Coal from RTH is already competitive with coal from the Czech Republic, Indonesia and Ukraine at the Termoelectric plant Trbovlje due to transport costs. It's a calculation. The trend shows an increase in the price competitiveness of coal from the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine for the purposes of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje. The thermoelectric power plant Trbovlje has a high price of its own due to outdated technology. During its operation on this technology, it makes sense to have priority supervision, which is also allowed and recommended in the European Union, if the energy is present. The purpose of priority surveillance is to maintain a sufficiently large supply of electricity and to prevent possible energy shortages, i.e. the so-called electric eclipse, which is of course very topical for Slovenia. Priority surveillance is defined in Directives of the European Union and used in many countries. A typical case is Ireland. In the event of the end of the Termoelectric power plant Trbovlje and RTH, the Slovenian electricity supply will decrease by 5%, which can, together with 3% of the average energy consumption growth, seriously jeopardise the stable electricity supply in Slovenia. The dilemma between the natural gas power plant and solid fuels exists only for Te-Tol and not as it was said that this dilemma is real for Trbovlje. I already have here a study or role for the extension of the priority custody for 2009-2012 submitted by the Termoelectrica following a discussion and agreement at the Ministry of Economy. In the dilemma between natural gas power plants and solid fuels, we take into account the stability of energy supply. Slovenia is linked to Russia in the 1960s and Algeria in 30%. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] A complication in the market can cause a severe crisis. [[...]] The only thing is, hard fuel energy replaces gas. And last but not least, 1800 people are directly and indirectly bound to the Trbovlje-Hrastnik and Thermoelectric Trbovlje mines. If production closes in 2009, there will be 350 to 400 people, three family members, 1,200 people on the road. 1,200 people. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Take into account the facts given to you, the facts, the arguments made by the Doctors of Science at the Faculty of Economics and think wisely for the benefit of this country and people.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u212	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Han will give his position to the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague. I must say that Mr Barovic was more than convincing with his arguments, but in the Socialist Group of Members, we will support the amendment of the law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine and the development restructuring of the region. There are three reasons for our support of the law. For the first time, for the second time responsibility and for the third time in particular positive consequences for people in Zasavje, for employees in Zasavje, for the local community and not least for the country. A study by the Economic Institute of the Faculty of Law shows that the prospects for Zasavje are not good. What's more, they're worried. A two-year extension of the mining of sulphur coal is justified for both economic and social reasons, all relevant data show. The law also does not provide for any additional state resources intended for the closure of the mine, only to be redistributed for a longer period, allowing for longer mining of coal and everything I previously counted. The issue of responsibility and consequences is also important. RTH and the Ripper thermal power plant, as Bogdan said, together account for 1,800 direct and direct jobs, which is 10% of employment in Zasavje. The RTH leadership has been working with various forms of restructuring for years to reclassify employees, which takes time. The jobs that Zasavje needs undoubtedly require the necessary practice and education, which the knapi cannot obtain overnight in the cave. We probably do not need a special mathematical calculation of what closing the mine would mean by the end of 2009 for the unemployment rate in Zasavje and in general for the development of Zasavje. The latest statements made by Minister Viszak, if it was pointless to give money to prolong the agony of something, which is one question for a few years or so, remind me very much - and in this place I would apologize to the minister, even though he is not here today, because I ascribed a wrong statement to him a short time ago - to the words of Prime Minister Janez Janša in 2004, when he was still the opposition Member. At that time, John Janša scrupulously responded to the government’s help to Revoz, as if it were an unjustifiable gift, for recklessness, for overpriced jobs. And if memory doesn't deceive me, this same Mr. Janez Janša, as Prime Minister of the Government, took pictures a few weeks ago in the New Town Revoz and admired with great pride their latest product. Like this Government painting on visits to Slovenia, I hope that the minister will have courage in Zasavje the next time he continues again to cameras and journalists, to tell Zasavčanka and Zasavčan why the government opposed the extension of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine. The Minister's statement from the last Committee on the Economy, that he wants the region of Zasavje well, and we will certainly take note of it. I believe this statement was well-intentioned. In the end, I ask myself only out loud whether the signatures under this law are important, that we are not signed by the right Members, then this moment I withdraw my signature and let someone else sign what is the right political colour. But I repeat, in the end, the Social Democrats will support the law. We'll back him up because we owe this to Zasav. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u214	Thank you very much. The seat of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be given by Member Miran Jerič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u215	Mr Tomaž Jeršič, Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State Tomaž Jeršič, Mr Dimnik, Honourable Fellow Member and Fellow Members! The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will not support the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, the Committee on the Economy, that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the Sava region is not suitable for further consideration. We support the law. Let me mention only some of the reasons for such a decision: the security of energy supply is one of the main objectives of the European Union's energy policy and the priority consideration of electricity from domestic, primary sources of fuel represents the legitimate practice of Member States to achieve this objective. This is also confirmed by the European Commission's approval of priority custody in Slovenia. The decision was issued in April of this year. This is also confirmed by the case of Ireland, which applies to the prioritisation of electricity produced from domestic peat energy by 2019. This is confirmed by cases of various other forms of State aid in the area of coal restructuring both in Belgium, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and France, that I do not lose words about the countries of Eastern Europe. Coal stocks in the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine are open and large and their exploitation is feasible at an acceptable or competitive price. Most coal mine facilities and installations will only depreciate at the time of the extension of the excavation and operation of the existing power plant, which has an installed new cleaning plant. The possible non-use of open reserves of coal, according to the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, also increases the country's energy dependence and reduces the security of energy supply. The adoption of the proposed law would also give us time to complete technological modernisation of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje. At the same time, the appropriate choice of eco-, energy- and economic-efficient and energy-friendly technologies is very important. Both investment plans have been drawn up, both for gas [[..]] [[Incomprehensible]] A power plant, as well as for the production of a solid fuel unit, of course in combination with domestic, imported coal and a combination of wood biomass. [[...]] Those who want imported coal to be used in this location are proposing that the Zasavci find this location closer to the port in Slovenia. In some ways, the long-standing exceptional concentration of energy activities in the Sava region also has a negative impact on the entrepreneurial climate. Trade and entrepreneurship are less developed than in other regions. This makes it difficult to re-employ people from energy activities, as they are less likely to form new businesses. The limiting factor for the development of new companies is also the influential area of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, as it is a huge degraded area that requires extremely large investments to create spatial conditions, to develop entrepreneurship and crafts. The proposed amendments to the extension of coal production and the extension of the closures would give the region the opportunity to gradually re-employment of people and thus not result in an excessive increase in unemployment in the region. This would allow a gradual increase in environmental absorption capabilities and neutralise the negative consequences of the closure of Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine. Local communities can only create spatial conditions to create new jobs with budgetary resources. In order to develop entrepreneurship, craft and industry, and with direct incentives, they support forward-looking programmes, but cannot assume the responsibility of restructuring this sector because they therefore have neither financial resources nor the task of local communities, but countries. Finally, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, I would like to express the Government's view of this law in such a late and very general manner. The Ministry of Economy and Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Development has not even carried out a thorough analysis for the first five-year period, which may provide a good basis for the adoption of annual programmes, but is also a good basis for proposing new measures or legislative changes. This is what they were obliged to do under the existing law. In Slovenia we already have a lot of experience in shutting down the production and closing of mines, so the government should be better aware of all the problems and consequences of closing the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, according to the LDS Group. In view of the above, the Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Member Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u217	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In Novi Slovenija we are aware that any closure of companies is difficult for both employees and the environment in which these establishments are located. It is difficult to see companies dying on meals, so it is better to complete the sad story as soon as possible and come to a new way of thinking as quickly as possible, to a new perspective and to take a chance in some new industry. It is true that mine closure requires its specificity regarding the length of the closure period, but in Nova Slovenija we estimate that the 2005 law provides for a sufficient period of time to close and rehabilitate the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that closing plants can also bring serious personal traumas, major social problems, but for a healthy economy it is also necessary to close non-performing establishments or businesses and, on the other hand, to open smaller establishments that quickly adapt to market needs. The longer we allow a closed story to be drawn that has no future, the harder it will be in the region to gain the power to create new businesses, so we will not support this law in New Slovenia. Idria is a very good example of a successful transition to another industry.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u218	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Kristijan Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on the gradual closure of Trbovlje Rudnik - Hrastnik and the developmental restructuring of the region regulates the gradual abandonment of energy activities in the Zasavski region and provides for means to provide compensation for environmental damage and provides for the development restructuring of the region. The objective of the proposal, as stated by the proposaler, a group of Members with Mr Bogdan Barovic's first-signed, would be to extend production until 2011, and the implementation of the closing work by the end of 2017, which would have a beneficial impact on human and social policy, taking into account the fact that the unemployment rate in this region is now one of the highest in the region, 15.7%. As the Minister for Economy has pointed out, the extension of the closure of part of the Trbovlje - Hrastnik mine can also have economic negative consequences. State resources would be more useful to invest in new development projects than to prolong the existence of the dominant industry. That is why we are also in favour of the Slovenian People's Party, because we believe that the development of perspective development sectors is one that ensures rapid economic development. State aid in the Sava region is being implemented and the production of the Trbovlje - Hrastnik mine was already extended from the original planned year 2007 to 2009 and the closing works from 2012 to 2015. New development projects would improve the negative entrepreneurial climate resulting from energy activity concentration in the region. However, re-employment could only be possible with the greatest possible activity towards the development restructuring of the region. On the proposal from the proposer, the appropriations covering the period 2010 to 2015 would be redistributed to a reduction in the budget period for 2016 and 2017 respectively. In our view, this reallocation would not have a significant impact on the budget itself or the savings itself or otherwise contribute positively to the resolution of the problem. The example of good practice is also illustrated by the example of Kanjiarica in Montenegro, which has created a new development of entrepreneurship and something similar could and could also be desirable in the region of Posavje or Zasavje with good programmes for which it is possible to obtain both European and state resources. But any such restructuring requires great effort. And if this is a specific area, which mining certainly is, it is necessary to prepare well and to organise in a timely manner that this transition is as painless as possible and to create an appropriate entrepreneurial environment. Every loss of a job is extremely valuable for every community, but when such a large door as is usually closed here in Zasavje, new doors and new opportunities can be opened at the same time. Since there is still time, I propose to the proposers and to all interested parties to roll up their sleeves as soon as possible and, together with the country, to find the way out of this story. Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group think that the initial planned closure in 2015 is an appropriate solution, both in terms of new development options and from an ecological point of view, so we decided not to support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u220	The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u221	Colleagues and colleagues! If you are not convinced by a doctor of science study, which is also a member of your government's professional council, if you are not convinced by the fact that there is no need for any investment, that we have educated staff, that we have 30 million tons of coal supplies, that we need energy, that people have a job, that if nothing convinces you, absolutely nothing, if you don't believe that investors don't want to walk, and walk, you see yourself in their places, abroad, instead of at home, listen only to this decision, if this doesn't sober you, what kind of black humor and what irony we've experienced, they've experienced, well, that they've already had a little drink, then you'll be fine. [[...]] Meeting of the Economic Committee, 26 June. Minister Andrej Vizjak says [[Quote]] : "The matter is not economically neutral. On the contrary, it prolongs one significant state intervention into one non-economic twin RTH. For some social reasons, prolonging the agony of some clearly signed non-economic economic projects makes no sense." And finally, "We are working on one way to survive, which has never produced fruit, always the opposite, people passively, the result is long-term poor and we have to come back to the same." Minister Visjak, June 26th! And, of course, he finally said, "Not to mention two fatalities." These are the words of the Minister on 26 June. Black humor and irony. In a week, July 3rd, miners' day, Jožet Dimnik of the Ministry of Economy said: "The quality assessment is successful. The witnesses will be given a certificate. Quality assessment means upgrading," not non-economicism. "The indicators speak of the quality of the business," not the negligibility and non-economics, as the minister said a week ago, "about lowering costs," but as the minister said, that costs are too high. The same department! The same people! Especially about business excellence. And the greatest irony, the words mag. Anton Klasinca: "Let me congratulate, on behalf of the House, the Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik, your colleagues and employees, that you have proved that you are also able to do what companies are doing, which are in eternal growth, that you are also able to achieve just that, mining. Your work is even more difficult. You are now certified for the good performance of your work. You are certified to respect the laws and regulations, for your safety in your work, for your healthy work, as well as, or even especially for development, for the development of your expertise, on the basis of which you develop new services that you will offer throughout Slovenia and around the world. This is your commitment and obligation." Words to miners! "This is a journey to your victory. And that yours would run every day as if you were still working for a hundred years!" Those words were spoken by the miners on 3 July. A week ago, they were spitting away everything they said. If that doesn't sober you up, if that's not irony, if that's not black humor, if that's not "grey," then I don't know what that is. Remember what I read. You won't be the only one to hear, unencompassed, bravo, shut down, you're developing. What a mockery of people! Go to the cave, 200 years they've been digging it, 200 years, and for two years you've been worried about it for two years. Think about it, because it's black humor and irony. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman, Member of the DeSUS Group, will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u223	Thank you very much. I was warned on the way, and I must admit I'm in a bit of an awkward situation, because after this rallying atmosphere, I'm just waiting for the harmonica to play. However, the matter is probably more serious and it should be thought through calmly, rationally, and of course also in some comparisons that do not merely refer to a performance by someone who spoke when he wanted to be liked by those who listened to him. Of course, we now have so many different grades ahead of us. And one of these estimates is that you might not be able to say, here we have an example of a tomato horse now for the market economy. However, we know that the country has been investing for years and years, so it is not deaf to help, important resources. Not a billion or two, but it's tens of billions and she's willing to invest them for a while. Such a reference may be that those who are not most enthusiastic about one truth, that we are deaf, will probably not endure. If someone says we're like that, that's what it was like to hear, to support it, then we don't have a choice. Then the debate is unnecessary, then we just say yes, vote and separate what has been demanded of us who owe us. However, look, I think the very title of the law is such that it speaks of gradual closure and is also talking about the economic restructuring of the region. Today we've been listening and also all the time, I'd say, a lot about extension, about restructuring, about what was really done so far, that the region would dramatically change to show where its pulsating possibilities are. Some of us may not know enough about this, and today there is little to be heard about how much we can complete our knowledge. Perhaps something like that will be said in the debate. But this call we're hearing today is a force call. And a lot of people understand that. This is a distress call. And in many regions in Slovenia it has happened so that entire regions have collapsed. And sometimes it was, as was argued at a meeting of the parent working body, where I was not present, but I read the minutes, sometimes we have different ways to solve such crises, and we have good examples, that is, examples from practices that are good. Let me tell you that the DeSUS Group is certainly not the one with no sensitivity to social and other problems. But we know that social problems can only be solved in such a way that we have a solid and developmental enabling economy. Without that, we can't run a social network. I, apart from knowing such an example in Slovenia, have very hard personal experience. I have come from the congregation and have been leading it for many years, participating in the administration of this congregation, which slipped from a tomato horse overnight to the Slovenian bottom. And the unemployment rate in the then congregation of Ruše, about the same period, was 33.5%, which is more than once greater than what is spoken of today. And I can tell you that at that time our "factories" went after each other into bankruptcy, liquidation, privatisation and with new owners we also experienced new development programs, rerouting. And today, thank God, I can say this, we are proud of the fact that these companies themselves, with their knowledge without the help of the state, have dug out of this mud and are today developing companies that invest in technological reconstruction, in environmental rehabilitation, in new production plants and are constantly more employed. Over the past five years, we have brought down the unemployment rate by 50%, about what we are talking about today in this region. And I hope that there will be such success that we keep these trends in the future. That's why we're also looking for new development perspectives, not just doing one and the same, we're perpetuating the old, but we're looking for a new one. I think it will be necessary for the bloody path to be spilled somewhere else, even in the Russians, perhaps ever again, because there will not always be a favourable situation, and even then there will probably be no special state aid. Yet we have dug ourselves out of this and I am glad that we have dug in in such a way that we have gathered our strengths. The municipality also played a decisive role in the search for investors, regulating spatial acts, providing land, municipal equipment and everything else necessary for development restructuring. We will support the conclusion of the parent's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u224	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u225	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Allow only to teach those who do not know what they will support or do not know what the law is talking about and what the procedure is in Parliament. You know, the Ministry of Economy, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has made a negative decision, which means there will be no debate today. So those who expect you to hear, I don't know, development projects by the state, you're quite wrong, even though you're sitting in a coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u226	Thank you. This was not a proposal, this was part of the debate. Mr Stane Pajk will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u227	Your Honor! The proposer of the bill proposed that coal production should be extended and that closing works should be extended for two years. At the meeting of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, it was found that the proposed amendments did not expect savings and improvements in conditions for overworked workers. It should be stressed that state aid is now being implemented and implemented under an approved scheme. The change, if any, could also have a negative impact on the financing of the gradual closure, as the financing of the closing parts of the notified scheme under the European Commission Regulation is only consistent until October 2007. It follows from this that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group cannot support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u228	Thank you. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We will decide on the proposal in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the end of the 24th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. I'm moving to nine. Period of the day - Defence bill on amendments to the laws on electronic communications. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Dr. Pavel Gantar. With regard to this bill, the Committee on the Economy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Since the Government is not proposing the law on this point, it has no say. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u229	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that the 24-month deadline for data storage is legal and is fully in line with European directives. We also believe that only the period of storage of data on electronic communications does not affect safety, as presented by the drafter of the law. We agree that a longer period of data storage on electronic communications is a slightly higher cost for operators, but these costs are not sufficient to be fatal for their operation. If the retention period were shorter, costs would be reduced to a negligible extent, which means that the benefits of the amended law would be less than the value of the non-acceptance. The 24-month period of data storage is also required due to certain criminal proceedings and to the scope of the intelligence and security services activities, as well as to the defence of the country where the procedures run for a long time and the need for certain data turns out subsequently. Because of these facts in the New Slovenia Group, we believe that it is more appropriate to keep 24 months and therefore we will not support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u230	Thank you. Mr Kristijan Janc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! In November 2006, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The new law also introduces an amendment to Article 107a, which defines the field of storage of traffic and location data obtained or processed in connection with the provision of electronic communications networks or services. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council provides for a period of 6 to 24 months for the storage of traffic data. The purpose of applying the Directive is left to national legislation. According to the directive, it is therefore mandatory to store traffic data on telephones, internet communications and mobile phone locations. In addition, it is also mandatory to store data on failures or disconnected calls in networks. EU Member States shall also decide whether operators will be granted State compensation due to the costs of legally binding purchase of new equipment that will allow them to store large amounts of electronic communications data. Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members proposed that in Article 107a, paragraph 4, the period within which operators must ensure data storage should be reduced from 24 months to 12 months from the date of communication. Slovenia has chosen the maximum time limit for the storage of data permitted by the Directive. In their opinion, however, the value of the data declines in 12 months and is therefore no longer useful. This also violates the principle of privacy. The aim of the law would thus be to reduce the possibility of abuse and infringement of the constitutionally guaranteed right to privacy. It should be pointed out here that it is data storage in traffic, not the content of conversations or messages. Also due to the difficulty of access to data, an appropriate level of data security is ensured. For access is possible only on the basis of a preliminary order and only if certain conditions are met. The current 24-month storage period is a legal and legitimate option which is fully in accordance with the provisions of the Data Storage Directive and is left to the Member States. They also agreed with this deadline at the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence, as well as at Owl. The amendment of the law would also make it difficult to ensure national security and defence and the effectiveness of prosecution. Many crimes were discovered much later than they actually happened. Also, the detection does not necessarily involve known suspects of a criminal offence and the need to obtain such data may only occur when the proceedings have been ongoing for a long time. The short term thus entails a risk that the data can already be deleted by then, thereby reducing the effectiveness of prosecution. Similarly, the case of intelligence and security services, where certain cases are monitored over a period of years, and electronic media are therefore of paramount importance. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the 24-month deadline is a better solution, especially to improve the efficiency of ensuring national security and prosecution. Criminal procedures themselves are often longer than two years and data on electronic communications are very helpful in such cases. From the perspective of interference with the principle of privacy, we believe that this is not jeopardised by the nature of the data and the difficulty of access to data. For these reasons, we will not support the proposal for a law amending the Law on Electronic Communications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u232	Thank you. Dr. Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications is very short and simple. We propose that the time limit for storing traffic data, which operators are obliged to store for 24 months, should be reduced to 12 months. As has already been said, let me say again, I must point out that this is about storing traffic data, not about storing the content of conversations or messages from other electronic media. This traffic data is already being stored by operators, stored for their business needs, to issue accounts. And once business operations are completed, operators are forced to turn these traffic data into a personal form and keep them as statistics. Transport data are of course very important. They enable the tracing and analysis of social networks indicated by established telephone or other contacts between people. With such a network analysis, which is now very popular in social and natural sciences, we can find much more and more accurate than listening and similar mechanisms. The requirement to store this data stems from a directive that has set up a maximum of 24 months of storage, and we have implemented it in its largest dimension, i.e. 24 months. And interestingly, we also implemented it very quickly, which is not typical and is not a rule for other directives; some countries are still arguing about whether or not they will be implementing it at all today. After 6 months of law enforcement, studies have emerged to warn that feeding for so long, for the first time, uselessly and for the second time potentially increases the risk of abuse. Compared to what our justice and police ministry claims, studies show that the value of transport data is dropping sharply after one year and that it soon comes to a value almost equal to zero. At the same time, increasing storage time, of course, increases the potential for abuse. Germany, Finland, the Czech Republic, in particular Germany, which is more threatened by international terrorism, for example, now has a six-month storage facility. France, Denmark, Spain for 12 months, the United Kingdom, which has put so much pressure on this directive, still has only an agreement between operators as long as data storage is required. The only longer-term country is Ireland, and I think Italy has a longer one. The so-called "Dutch Protection of Authority" is said to be a Dutch data protection agency that considers the 12-month deadline to be more than long enough, but our Government, of course, claims that the storage period is unrelated and in no way affects data security. That's not true! We increase our risk and generally apply to such data types, which are personal data, the principle is that only as much data as we urgently need them to be collected. Remember the discussion about the real estate registry law and so on, on the list and similar matters. We'd just be gathering data, just in case, we'd be collecting data, we'd be using it somehow and somehow, it's better to have data, even though we don't know why we have it, and even though we know that it can be misused. The government speaks through the optics of the police and the judiciary ministry, and not through the optics of telecommunications operators, who of course are not interested in storing data that long because it costs them. I'd like to mention a broader context in a few seconds. In the last issue of Der Spiegel, you read or could read an interesting article about how the rule of law turns into a preventive state. How the rule of law, which once defended human rights and freedoms, is transformed into a country that acts preventively [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] controls, monitors and preventative measures against people who have not done anything yet, who do not even indicate that they would have committed a crime, but do so just in case. [[...]] We must not be on this path, so we propose that we do not, however, adopt this decision and go to a second reading of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u234	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Retired. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u235	It may be expected that most would support the assessment that this law does not have a significant impact on the everyday life of most people in our country, but that, of course, abuses that are theoretically possible may occur. Even with a different number of months as it is now written. Of course, the Law on Electronic Communications and on the Possibilities of Abuse takes on such a different meaning, a significantly different weight when we connect it with some of the concepts to which it usually intertangles. And when we talk about security, when we talk about peace, about fundamental human rights, about terrorism, about the security of the country and so on; in short, with these concepts, there is a potential for meaning that is not as dramatic as it would like to be. When we were talking about electronic communications and when we adopted the law, we were talking about, of course, having positive and negative salaries, we were talking about possible abuses, how to prevent them. Once again, there was no real support for the dramatic change in the number of months to be written in the law, and in fact only for the period of storage, and for this change, which is immediately given a different weight by combining synthage, such as: security, abuse and privacy. However, the applicant considers that there is too much possibility that the data storage provider would be at great risk of having access to privacy. This is an option, but we estimate that this possibility may be over-potential in the defence of this law and that the preservation in itself is not an infringement of telecommunications privacy. This is just one of the instruments for some other security to be maintained. We have different assessments, some talking about how telecommunications security is being threatened, and others think that if we dramatically change it, people's safety could be compromised at all. It is now a matter of difficulty, which security and which right, even this right to human security, is a fundamental right at all. It is a matter of difficulty as to whether the country will be more secure, whether it will be safer, whether it will succeed in time, or even within an appropriate time frame, by means of such telecommunications data, who and how, in what way, could endanger us, our security and our peace, or whether it is a greater threat to someone’s telecommunications privacy. We in the DeSUS Group feel that this difficulty may be overpowered, and it could probably have been written for 18 months, and there would be no terrible differences, 24 can be written, as it is now written. And, of course, referring to some other countries that have not yet implemented this, it probably has no real weight. Since it has also been argued that this will reduce costs, we have this kind of thought about the following: if there were such a great cost, it would probably be operators who would raise their voices, not opposition Members, who might also emphasise this for some other reason. We believe that such a solution, which is also proposed, can be correct, and in this belief we will also support the decision taken by the mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u236	Thank you. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected choir! The most recent amendment to the Law on Electronic Communications, adopted by this National Assembly in November 2006, was also adopted by stipulating that operators shall ensure the storage of transport data on the electronic communications network for a period of 24 months from the date of communication. At that time, the Liberal Democracy Club tabled an amendment to shorten the period of 24 months to 9 months. Both the Government and the majority of members of the National Assembly, as well as our parliamentary group, have rejected this amendment in a reasoned manner. The former members of the LDS Club, who are now in the Association of Zares, want to re-examine, by amending the Law on Electronic Communications, which has only one substantive article, the 24-month period of data storage, not more than 9 months, but 12 months, by explaining that this will reduce the possibility of abuse or violation of the constitutionally guaranteed privacy rights of an individual, while also depriving operators of certain costs. We do not support the proposed novel in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group for a single basic and substantive reason, already in November 2006 the adopted provision on the 24-month period of feeding. The essence of this two-year period, which is in accordance with the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the storage of data leaving Member States alone to set a storage time limit of between 6 and 24 months, is that a longer period of data storage contributes significantly to the effectiveness of prosecution and criminal proceedings, as some crimes are detected later than they actually have. At the time of the discovery of the act, however, it is also not always known to suspects at the same time as to the service of the act. In addition, data may prove to be relevant later in criminal proceedings, often longer than two years. Similar findings on the eligibility of longer-term data storage are also found in the areas of information, security and defence activities of the country in terms of terrorism, organised crime and other forms of security risk. Thus, in the explanation, the novel's proponents themselves quote: "The proposed maximum solution is a compromise, and the reason for it is in particular the fact that in the prosecution of a crime the need to obtain such data can only arise when the procedure has been in progress for a long time or only then all the conditions for such a measure are met. In this sense, the short or six-month period means that the data will in fact be erased by then." End of quote. Therefore, the applicants themselves argue that a longer feeding period is needed after 12 months. According to the reasoned opinion of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice requires a 24-month period. In our Group's view, therefore, it has fundamentally led to the establishment of a 24-month data storage period for successful prosecution of criminal offences, the conduct of criminal proceedings, but not, as proposed by the novel, a compromise to reduce the abuse of privacy. If based on this flat-rate compromise assessment of the applicants, we believe that abuses are possible at any time from the first day to the compromises of 12 months or the current 24 months. Data storage within the time range from the first day to 24 months in no way affects greater or less data security. Data security shall be ensured by strict statutory control mechanisms of independent authorities from the information officer to the court orders of the competent court, together with mechanisms which shall also ensure traceability of procedures in such data stored. The novelty's proposals also state that by reducing the time-limit, storage costs will also be reduced, but they do not provide a calculation or at least an estimate of savings. In our view, these savings would be negligible, which the operator would probably not have taken into account when reducing the price of the service. On the basis of the above arguments, we will not support the proposed amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u238	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u239	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! That the implementation of this directive does not mean that my data is stored for only 24 months, but that, on the other hand, it means that all my established phone connections have been under constant control since my parents or my mother bought my first mobile phone and until the end when I use it, when I use it, when I use it, where I come from and where I communicate with. Therefore, the storage of customer phone records for mobile operators for 24 months or 12 months is no longer just a question of the relationship between the contracting authority, that is to say me and the operator, but it is more than that; it is a relationship between the State and the contracting authority. Operators are in this case only those who will bear the financial and logistical burden of this storage, but I am personally confident that the financial burden in the final sequence will be passed on by operators to us, contracting entities with a higher price. That's the way it is. We're in a market economy. So in this particular case, when it comes to the implementation of the European Data Storage Directive, it is very serious. The argument of government representatives defending a maximum period of 24 months and not, for example, the minimum allowed by the directive, that is, 6 months, is not convincing enough. Because, to argue this intervention by remedying a situation by means of this Directive, from the point of view of criminal prosecution in individual countries, it was not possible to express non-life, which obviously means Slovenia, which has decided for the maximum period, and that the communication data in very large criminal proceedings is a key indication, it cannot be a key argument that the data of all other 99.99 citizens, non-potential offenders or criminals are still being kept. That is why, of course, in the Group of Social Democrats, we still believe that the Government has not examined all the arguments for and against when it has proposed a maximum period of time. And given that there has been a lot of talk and talk over the past few weeks about human freedoms and their violations, I am interested in the position of the Government and the government Members and Members of Parliament concerning the implementation of this Directive, which is totally contrary to what these same actors require for certain current issues. According to them, every intervention in the freedom of communication is a violation of human rights. So let's put it straight. 24 monthly storage of my data to a mobile operator means that from the beneficiary of modern communication technology I have turned into a supervised citizen in any case. My mobile operator has turned from the entity that provides me with my free communication into my personal supervisor. Or in other words. Every time I turn on my cell phone, it's gonna be like, "Be careful who you talk to and what you talk about. He's watching, listening, and being watched by Big Brother." So it's serious and politically sensitive things that can and will also have a very negative impact on people. That is why, of course, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that in this, a 24-month period, we cannot and must not agree if we want to be a free and democratic society, as we have repeatedly stressed. We also understand that certain risks are needed and that concessions should be granted for certain human rights and freedoms interventions. But for our situation in Slovenia, 12 months is more than enough. Slovenia is not an extremely tourist country and is thus at risk, such as some other tourist destinations. Therefore, once again, one year is more than enough, but if the situation appears to indicate that the deadline is too short, let us then extend it to a specific situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u240	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the end of the 24th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the reverse law. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 11 Members with first-signed Mr Milan Petk requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for further explanation of the law. Mag. Tomaž Jeršič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u241	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. The proposal for a law on changes and additions to the craft law does not affect the special legal regime of trade, as we estimate that this part of the economy continues to be subject to specific regulation by law, especially because there are at least three reasons in the Republic of Slovenia that justify the separate treatment of craft entrepreneurship in the future: the use and economic development of crafts, the tradition of crafts in Slovenia and the preservation or strengthening of modern competition. The most important objective of the bill is to make it as easy as possible to enter the craftsmanship of the economy and thus enable the further development of this important part of the Slovenian economy. The draft law consistently introduces the principle of the removal of administrative barriers, which means further reduction of administration for economic operators, by removing the trade permit for crafts activities for which a qualification condition will not be laid down, and in those activities, once specified, all administrative procedures relating to the performance of the master's examination shall be waived, thus entailing a material burden on the costs of carrying out this examination. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will, by means of a specific regulation, establish trade activities for which it will not be necessary to meet the qualifications conditions, as well as those for which professional competence is required, indicating the appropriate minimum professional competence. In this context, the proposal for a law reduces the current qualification level for the performance of craftsmanship, which means secondary vocational education, to the secondary level, and the adequacy of secondary vocational education is equivalent to that of a master's examination. The essential changes are in the area of a mandatory membership contribution to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce, since the proposal for amendments and additions for members provides for only one membership to ensure that comparable members of the Chamber pay the same membership, irrespective of the seat of their establishments. After the current law autonomously determines the membership of both the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and each of the 62 regional chambers of commerce, which means that each member pays two memberships. In addition, the level of membership between the regional chambers of commerce is very different, as members of the regional chambers of commerce with fewer members pay 3 times more membership than their colleagues in the regional chambers of commerce with more members, which is unacceptable as the level of membership does not depend on the economic power of the individual member. The introduction of one membership provides for the largest possible part of this membership, which is intended by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia for the operation of the regional chambers. With a view to the coordinated and correct implementation of the statutory tasks as well as the dedicated use of compulsory membership funds, the relationship between the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Regional Chamber of Commerce shall be established. The share of the membership belonging to the regional chambers of commerce is determined by the current situation of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and all 62 regional chambers of commerce, in order not to make the situation of the regional chambers worse by introducing one membership. The share of the membership fee for each Regional Chamber of Commerce will be determined by the Assembly of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, in which each area has a Chamber of Commerce of its representative. The minimum and maximum amount of membership shall be determined in view of the fact that the mandatory membership contribution entails the burden of membership. This is between €10 and €50 per month, significantly simplifying the current complex membership system. The proposal for a law sets out more clearly the manner and procedure for determining membership, with particular emphasis being placed on ensuring legal certainty for each member, with the possibility of appeal against the annual determination of his membership. The proposal for a law further sets out clearly the activities of the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, as well as the regional chambers of commerce, which are financed by a mandatory membership contribution, and, in view of the introduction of one member's contribution, the powers of the regional chambers of commerce in this area are being amended accordingly. The bill also introduces the possibility that a person wishing to obtain a trade permit can do so only through the system of 32 single entry points "I know - all in one place", thereby facilitating the process and method of obtaining the relevant one, that is a trade permit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u242	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Kristijan Janc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Government representatives, once again, colleagues and colleagues! The trade in Slovenia has a long and rich tradition and is part of our tradition. That is why, in the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that it is necessary to regulate certain areas and craftsmen in a precise manner and to make it easier to operate and facilitate entry into the market. Of course, new changes are needed, which are intended to affect the rights and position of operators so far, but to improve them and ensure the traditional presence of crafts in our space. Uncomplicated and simple procedures are those that contribute to higher levels of progress and faster development of craftsmanship. The most important objective of the current amendment proposal and the amendment of the law is to make it as easy as possible to enter the trade without unnecessary administration and thus enable the further development of this important part of the Slovenian economy. In particular, the proposal concerns the removal of administrative barriers, as the trade permit for non-qualified crafts activities is abolished and all administrative procedures relating to the performance of the master's examination are excluded from those activities where it is to be determined, and this also entails a material unloading, since there is no cost associated with this examination. Although the master's exam is not overturned, only the condition of master's examination as an admission to craftsmanship and master's examination remains one of the conditions of entry into craftsmanship and further professional qualifications, which is an important fact, as this type of test of knowledge is still maintained and the area is taken more seriously. By proposing amendments and supplementing the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will also lay down trade activities for which there will be no need to meet the qualifications conditions. Thus, the proposal for amendments reduces the current qualification level for the performance of craftsmanship from master's examination, secondary vocational education, to the secondary level. This allows many more people to enter the labour market, and to some extent the number of black workers who have not yet met the conditions for entry into this area would also be reduced. As a new condition, an appropriate secondary vocational education is added, which is equivalent to a master’s examination. The entry condition for the acquisition of a trade authorisation shall be further reduced and thus obtained by the applicant who submits a certificate of eligibility for a national professional qualification. In the countries of the European Union where the rules governing the qualification conditions for entry into action are applicable only to activities which are hazardous to health, property or environmental pollution. The provisions so far lay down qualification conditions for all craft activities and, following this proposal, the entry conditions for the exercise of the craftsmanship would be closer to those of the European Union. Traders would be able to gain easier access to the labour market by promoting a positive attitude towards economic development. In our party, however, we are convinced that it would make sense to retain higher criteria for the exercise of craftsmanship at least for activities that are hazardous to health, property and environmental pollution than is regulated in some parts of the European Union, which would contribute to ensuring the safe functioning of the environment, which is the right of all of us and which protects both the manufacturer and the consumer. The amendments to the law shall only preserve the negotiable authorisations for those activities for which the relevant professional capacity is required, while the negotiable activities for which no qualification condition is to be determined shall be discontinued and replaced by a decision issued by the Chamber of Commerce on an official basis. This significantly reduces certain administrative barriers and facilitates the entry of activities for craftsmen. The bill also introduces the possibility that a person wishing to obtain a trade permit can do so also through the 32 entry points system, "I know - all in one place", making the authorisation process very easy. We support this idea with the Slovenian People's Party, because we believe that it is not enough to satisfy itself with the current level of craft production and only to maintain it, but it is necessary to work comprehensively towards even faster and further development and volume of craftsmanship, including easier procedures and removal of unnecessary administrative barriers for craftsmen. The country must facilitate rather than make procedures more difficult for those who can contribute to the growth of the sector in Slovenia. A major change is in the area of determining the mandatory membership contribution at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and for the regional chambers of commerce, since the proposal for members sets out only one membership to ensure that comparable members of the Chamber pay one membership, irrespective of the seat of their establishments. Under the current law, each member pays a double membership fee: the one set by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the one set by the Regional Chamber of Commerce. Members of regional trade chambers with fewer members pay up to three times the membership rate, as do those of their colleagues in district trade chambers with a larger number of members. The introduction of one membership shall also provide for the largest possible proportion of this membership. The minimum amount would thus be reduced from the current 24.62 euros to 10 euros and the maximum amount would be reduced from 8.54 euros to 50 euros. The criteria for determining the membership fee are the number of employees in the company and thus the proposer proposes five groups in which smaller members pay lower membership and higher membership. In our party, we advocate the real realization of social rights, and we particularly welcome the fact that a single membership would also introduce equality throughout the country, as members would pay appropriate membership no matter what part of the country they are in. We also think that it is necessary to specify the area of the division of membership between the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the regional chambers of commerce in order to avoid accidental situations where the regional chambers of commerce would be deprived, especially those in the less developed parts of our Slovenia. The proposal for a change is certainly of great benefit to the craftsmen themselves, who thus avoid double payment of membership fees, and this would also be much lower than the previous one. It would also change the so-called name of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which would then be referred to as the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. This is an appropriate name in view of the continuous development of the craft, since this activity belongs to entrepreneurship, but not vice versa. According to this logic, the regional chambers of commerce would also be renamed the regional chambers of commerce. If Slovenian craftsmanship is to be integrated into the European market, of course, and to act competitively, it is also possible to see it through the eyes of entrepreneurship when it comes to the continuous development of entrepreneurship and also on turnover. We believe that by amending and supplementing the law, the position of craftsmen would be facilitated and certain administrative barriers to entry into the labour market were saved. In addition, one of the most important things that would change would be the payment of a single membership that would be comparable in all parts of our country. The proposal is also supported by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The trades must be made possible as quickly as possible and as easily as possible to preserve this traditional branch of high-level economies, both at local, national and international level. We are therefore of the opinion in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the trade law is suitable for further consideration and we support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u244	Thank you. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the craft law is, in our belief, of the Slovenian National Party, so important that it is a shame that the Government itself did not propose a general debate on the content of the law. She has probably waited for a group of Members to decide on this. But that's just my guess. She could also count on such an important law as a craftsman's law to pass through this House without general discussion and will be allocated to the committee, where we know what the ratio of force is. I think it is necessary, and I am sure that the Government will answer the questions raised in the debate, so it also sent - I see - two top experts - and I welcome them very much - to this end. As I have already said, this is a very important law and the issues that arise to us in the Slovenian National Party, I will say, are the following. Not long ago, I think that a year and a half ago, do not hold me for the exact dates and words, this government proposed the abolition of membership in one of the most important chambers in the Republic of Slovenia. This is the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Slovenia. According to the kuloires, I think in a short time, we'll be witnessing the abolition of membership in another chamber. This is in the so-called Agricultural Forestry Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia, at least following the trend this Government has. Today we have a trade law before us, we are talking about the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Slovenia, but I do not see the spirit or the hearing of compulsory membership in this Chamber, but I am interested in why. If we follow the trends of the larger chambers, why are we not following this trend in this case? The next thing I'm interested in is, which, by the way, can be very attractive, and as a government Member, I'd probably be doing the same thing here as all my successors, because we're reducing membership fees in half by the number of employees in a particular company. It is true that I agree that you are reducing your membership in half, but it is also an interesting fact that you have set EUR 50 for companies that employ more than 10 employees. The next question to me is: Where is the employee ceiling? Over 10 is 11, but over 10 there are 1,200 employees. According to some information I have myself, I believe you will deny it, but the evidence will come sooner or later, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia has sent a bill to pay membership fees even to institutions such as the Ljubljana Milk and Post Office of Slovenia. At one point I do not see any meaningful response to how Ljubljana’s dairy trades could be included in the Chamber of Commerce and how Posta Slovenije could be part of the Slovenian craft, either traditional or any other. But I believe you'll deny it vehemently when you answer my questions. And then I'm going to show you that this really happened, but not then some lady who's been working there to send the bills, to blame her for sending it wrong, or to decide on the wrong address. It seems to me that this Government simply does not want to follow the trend that we, as the Slovenian Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties at the time, announced. Yeah, we're going to go free membership in a separate chamber. But let the State, which ensures the functioning of an individual chamber or otherwise, by individual contributions, ensure its existence on the market with the quality of its work, whether it is a trade, economic or other chamber. I have a feeling when I look at this law, when I read it, that it's a matter of some kind, forgive the term, "nat"; "nat" The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, all things going in this direction. If we look at it as the highest membership fee, if the entrepreneur has an employee - or if we also look at the name that changes from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to the Chamber of Commerce. What are companies? We don't have some serious definition of a company, these could also be serial facilities. What is better for a company, being a member of an economic chamber, which the state is trying to destroy or pay 50 euros in some way, say, I have 50 employees, I belong to all the criteria that are very flat-rately written, I pay 50 euros a month's membership, which I think is not a terrible cost for a company that has more than 10 employees, and I am "first in the village". Here I also have a reasonable reason to believe that there was no mistake about the fact that there was a lady who sent the bills, that she also sent these bills to Ljubljana's dairy shops and to someone else, because there is only going to be an impact on someone bigger than someone smaller. So far, the craftsmen have been, at least in our belief, people who have really engaged in craftsmanship and have not been entrepreneurs in the broad sense provided for by this law. We can also reasonably suspect or think in the direction that there is some agreement between the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the acquisition of membership from the Chamber of Commerce to the Chamber of Commerce. Also, I will say, given the content of the law, we can think on a reasonable basis in this direction, but I believe, I really believe that the two experts that the Government has sent today will easily demente this. We will try to resist this or prove a different position; but it is right that we have a general debate, it is right to clarify things that make us feel sorry, and it is right that we are discussing such an important law here today, at least for two hours and 40 minutes - unless you are all familiar with the content. But the content, as it is, I believe that even those who have been in Parliament for a long time from me cannot understand it. Such content as this, believe me, you can't. Whoever claims to me, at least I, who's only been here three years, will have at least two objections to the individual's claims. For such a law is bad in its form, as it is prepared. But once again, I'll let myself be convinced by the experts who were preparing the law to convince me otherwise. That is why I will say that in the Slovenian National Party, at least at the time of the first reading, we cannot support the law, but we will be able to make sure that in the second reading, with certain additions to which I believe in the goodwill of the Government, that it will also propose them, we will be able to supplement it as much as we support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u246	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u247	While I am predicting support for the law on behalf of our parliamentary group, I would like to make some criticisms for the introduction to the motioner, who is going in the direction of gross underestimation of our language. If we compare the applicant’s attitude towards professional competence for craftsmen and the attitude of those who wrote the introduction and explanations to this law, they are roughly the same. And if I make a little joke, - I suppose this was written by university-educated people - it would be at least necessary to ban their craftsmanship with such a lax attitude towards the Slovenian language, which is not rare, which is common when it comes to what we get from the Ministry of Economy. Otherwise, if we go back to law school, I'll give you the following. The law simply discusses how it wants to open the door, how it wants to allow wide access to the exercise of craftsmanship, how it wants to eliminate administrative, bureaucratic and other obstacles, how it works to ensure that there is as much entrepreneurial initiative as possible, market competition, etc. - which is so true. However, these syntagms begin to be used as some kind of spell. We say, we are in favour of lifting administrative bans and restrictions, and then everything else we want to hear as if the other doesn't matter anymore. But we will also try to show in later discussions that it is not quite so that the removal of administrative barriers itself is not a reason, especially in order to agree on everything that any proposal offers. We have doubts about some solutions that I will also count, that are obvious and that we are not alone in doubt. Some craftsmen think similarly. We are pleased, however, that this is a proposal for a law that is harmonised; that it is coordinated between those who represent the crafts sphere and we are pleased that those turbulences that have arisen in the middle have been eliminated, and that, at least after what we see, the proposal is harmonised. We are pleased that the proposal for a law of majority will, also detected by surveys, follows, and here the attitude of the proposer was probably somewhat different from those of those polls carried out by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia before time. We are pleased to see that the uniform position regarding a single membership is uniform and that this single membership is also uniform and that, within this single membership, the Chamber of Commerce or Assembly of Commerce may also impose certain possible derogations, as the craftsmen themselves and not the legislator or the executive branch may decide. What has been mentioned is likely to be accepted by the craftsmen themselves. In fact, the reduction in membership and differentiation also in size and we support this in the DeSUS Group. This will mean less resources for the Chamber of Commerce, which probably also means direct pressure for the Chamber of Commerce to work at less cost, to work more effectively, to work more qualitatively, to appear more on the market and thus to become more competitive on its own. It is also easier to enter the trade through single entry points, which is also something that can be supported. Well, and not only do we list what can be supported on our part and what is good, let me say that we have a fundamental concern about overriding the facilitation of entry into trade, especially in our assessment of excessive reduction in the conditions for entry into trade. These conditions or downgrading are primarily on the basis of knowledge, especially on the account of professional competence, especially on the account of the experience that a person has in a particular profession. This is probably not good, but this is something that has already been proposed and even adopted in past procedures, for example, in the context of the adoption of a hospitality law, where anyone can do anything like that if I simplify it a little bit, and now we are offered something similar in the trade law. But I don't know why we're going to devalue all the expertise, because we probably know that the craftsmanship is not just the handiwork; it's not just about someone being able to make a lock and that they can make a key that they need to know how to open. It is also a matter of some other necessary knowledge, it is a business knowledge, for no one, not the craftsman himself, but must communicate in the business world, must master business communications, must master business responsibility, must know a little bit about accounting, financials and everything else, because it operates with other entities and can possibly, with its ignorance and with its lack of expertise, threaten and reduce the legal and business security of those who deal with it. It may be necessary to emphasise that it is also necessary for a craftsman to know much and more about what the attitude towards the environment should be, what it can and will not do to make it worse, what it has to do to manage more modern technologies. Perhaps it would be good for us to know more about labour law, as it is ultimately a matter of labour law relations. All of this is suddenly not gonna matter anymore. So, this attempt to lower this professional behaviour and some more integrated, not only to the individual speciality of the knowledge connected, but this raises some doubts and I hope that something can be changed here in the process of adopting legislation. This may also mean something positive, that there will be greater competitiveness, that there will be more people entering the market, that, as a result, theoretically possible lower prices due to this competitiveness, that there may be little less work on the black side, and possibly a little more full of budget bills if everyone starts paying taxes, but there will probably be less consumer safety, less quality of these products and services they offer, and something else bad can be attributed to this permanent reduction of the requirement for professional knowledge. So, some doubts remain in the Desus Group in support, and we hope that something else can be changed. Otherwise, we do not have any concerns about compulsory membership, especially as compared to the Chamber of Commerce, because it is only a matter of completely different business operators and we probably also need to adapt the conditions for the business of these entities to their basic character. We will support the proposal to continue the discussion, and we appeal to the proposaler to value first the knowledge of the Slovenian language, and those who write texts to him, to point out whether or not he can at least lecture them, because there are other experts who can fix this behind us, who do not have enough Slovenian language, and that a little more attention or a little more time to consider whether it is advisable to continue to reduce these conditions so that at the end there will be no more conditions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u248	Thank you. Ms Maria Possonec will present the position of the Group of National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u249	Nice greetings to all present! On our benches is the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the craftsmen's law, and this is the first to be considered. The most important objectives of the amendment proposal and the amendment of the law are to make it as easy as possible to enter the craftsmanship of the economy and thus enable the further development of this important part of the national economy. Such amendments and additions are without prejudice to the special legal arrangements of the trade, as this part of the economy must continue to be regulated in particular by law. The draft law thus entails a further reduction of administration for economic operators, the removal of a trade permit for crafts activities for which no qualification condition will be laid down for those activities when it is determined, and the removal of all administrative procedures relating to the performance of the master's examination, and the latter also entails a material burden, because the costs associated with the performance of the master's examination are not included. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to establish, through a specific regulation, trade activities for which there will be no need to meet the qualifications conditions, as in the case of activities for which professional competence is required so far, an indication of the relevant minimum professional competence. A trade authorisation shall be maintained only for those activities for which appropriate professional competence is required and for those activities for which no qualification condition will be established, and a trade permit shall be withdrawn and replaced by a decision issued by the Chamber of Commerce on an official basis. The bill also introduces the possibility that a person wishing to obtain a trade permit can do so also through the system of 32 single entry points, VEM - "all in one place", thereby facilitating the process and method of obtaining a trade permit. With regard to the determination of a mandatory membership contribution to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce, only one membership fee shall be provided for members to ensure that comparable members of the Chamber pay the same membership, irrespective of the seat of their establishments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u250	Thank you. Mr Jože Tanko will present the position of the Group Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u251	Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members. One of the main changes introduced by the bill for 50,000 members of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia is the change in the size and number of memberships they pay. According to the current law, membership is determined by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and 62 regional chambers of commerce, which means that everyone pays two memberships. The bill provides for only one membership fee and the membership fee would be divided into 35% for the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and 65% for the Chamber of Commerce, so that this ratio can be changed to plus, minus five percentage points. This ratio is determined according to the current membership ratio of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and all 62 regional chambers of commerce in order not to aggravate the situation of regional chambers of commerce by introducing one membership. However, a share of the membership belonging to the individual Regional Chamber of Commerce would be determined by the Assembly of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. It is interesting that, in the current system of collecting memberships in the boardroom, there are no data on how many memberships flow into the 62 budgets of the regional chambers. The regional chambers of commerce are not obliged to report this data, and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia itself, although this is public data, has not requested it so far. In some district trade chambers, membership rates are up to three times higher than in others. High membership fees are intended mainly to burden craftsmen in district chambers with a small number of members. The new law ends the period of voluntary decision-making of the regional chambers of crafts on the level of membership. The bill provides for the minimum and maximum amount of membership, from 10 to a maximum of 50 euros per month. With a proposal for a statutory membership limit, the minimum membership rate is reduced from 24.62 euros to 10 euros per month, with the current maximum membership rate rising from 80.54 euros to 50 euros per month. It is proposed that the amount of the membership be determined according to the size of the company which is a member of the Chamber and that the size of the economic operator itself take account of the size of the business and the number of employees. It is also proposed that the changes to membership should apply from 1.1.2008. The amount of membership is proposed at the following amount: members who personally perform domestic and art trades - EUR 10 per month; independent entrepreneurs and businesses without employees - EUR 20 per month; independent entrepreneurs and companies with up to 3 employees - EUR 30 per month; independent entrepreneurs and companies with 3 to 10 employees - EUR 40 per month; independent entrepreneurs and companies with 10 and more employees - EUR 50 per month. The novelty of craftsmanship, however, simplifies or removes many of the administrative obstacles experienced by craftsmen in everyday work. One of these simplifications is the abolition of qualification conditions, which means appropriate vocational training, for most craft activities. That this is necessary has been demonstrated by the practice so far. This means that trade activities that are not hazardous to human health and property and activities that are not hazardous to the environment are exempted from the requirement of adequate professional competence. For these trade activities, the authorisation will be replaced by a decision issued by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia on an official basis. These changes are expected both administratively and materially to reduce the load of craftsmen. The qualification requirement for the abolition of craftsmanship continues to be acquired by the master title introduced after more than a 30 - year break by the 1994 trade law. It also introduces, as an appropriate condition, the least appropriate higher professional education and the conditions in force in the European Union are laid down in Directive 99/42 of the European Community, as summarised by legislation on the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions or regulated professional activities in the Republic of Slovenia. This means that it is not necessarily necessary for persons who fulfil the new condition to carry out the master's examination, which has been required by the regulation so far. The entry conditions for access to a master's examination shall also be extended to at least secondary vocational education, allowing individuals great freedom to create their professional orientation. The current qualification requirement for the conduct of trade-related activities, which is at least an appropriate vocational education or a test of professional competence at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, is hereby removed, thereby substantially releasing the entry requirement for the performance of these activities. In our view, the proposed simplifications will bring benefits both to craftsmen and consumers. Increasing the number of craftsmen will strengthen their position and create greater and more healthy competitiveness, and will result in greater choice and price cuts for consumers. On the other hand, it will reduce noise and work to black. The proposed amendment of the trade law also envisages the renaming of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, which is more appropriate, and we support the proposal of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u252	Thank you. Mr. Franc [[Ferry]] Horvat will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u253	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal as a suitable basis for further consideration, both in the work aimed at facilitating entry into crafts and in the work governing the organisation of assembly and the system of compulsory membership. In doing so, we would like to give some warnings and recommendations for the final drafting of the bill and for the preparation of sub-laws, because some things will be regulated, as we see from the law itself and the explanation, by means of sub-laws. We also take into account the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. In the first part concerning the reduction of qualification conditions, we would like to draw the applicant's attention to the necessary caution. The laws and, in particular, the government regulation referred to in Article 1 should not lead to a reduction in quality for individual activities by reducing qualification requirements. This would be bad for consumers as well as for activities and their competitiveness in the open international market. That is also what the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia points out in its letter. The proposed solutions for the new arrangements for the mandatory membership contribution, in particular the introduction of uniform and equal membership, the identification of activities financed from the mandatory contribution and in the interest of all membership and the consequent reduction and simplification of the membership system, are considered appropriate. We believe it is good that the novel retains mandatory membership in the Chamber. This ensures high representativeness, legitimacy and efficiency. The Chamber can thus be a successful partner for the state and the social partners, as is the case today. Such a system also ensures the equality of entities, since the compulsory membership only provides for activities or activities that are in the interest of all. Such arrangements correspond to Slovenian tradition and are consistent with the arrangements in comparable countries with highly developed craftsmanship. The organisation shall facilitate the effective organisation and promotion of the development of this important activity. However, such arrangements for the organisation of craft and entrepreneurship raise the issue of the consistency or non-consistency of the regulatory arrangements of the assembly system for individual economic activities, the different arrangements for the economy, the Chamber of Commerce and Agriculture. In practice, the negative consequences of the change in the system of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia have already been shown, as we have pointed out at the time of the adoption of the law. Let me just say some. It is less heard and heard by the economy, the state and the social partners do not have a strong partner, I must say that I feel that I am also the Chairman of the Economic Committee, that this Chamber is less present and active than, say, the Chamber of Commerce or other chambers. The emerging chambers are having difficulties in obtaining membership and reaching the threshold of representativeness and, as we read in the media, are proposing some reductions in this threshold, which is very questionable. Apparently, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the newly established Chambers, their leadership and authorities are very self-employed, which is normal after the adoption of such a law. The effectiveness of economic promotion abroad seems to us to be worse than it is. And this is one of the main activities of the economic and other chambers. In short, what's happening is what we've been alerting ourselves to for nothing. Therefore, it is time for the Government to check the consequences and correct the error and propose, until it is too late, for the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia the same or similar arrangements as proposed here and, as I believe, will also be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u254	Thank you. Mr Milan Petek will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u255	Thank you, President for your word. Nice greeting to the Secretary of State. With this greeting, I would like to express my regret and disagreement, but we know that the Minister is in another role, so he is not among us. We believe that the Secretary of State would rather or better perform in front of journalists and those who accompany the caravan government across the Savino region, which I think is a much less competent interlocutor at this time in the National Assembly than would be Minister Vizjak, whom we know to be actively involved in the reform of the Chamber of Commerce Act and to be an active interlocutor to the Chamber of Commerce or their representatives. And we believe that it would be easier and that the government's answers would be easier; now this role is ungrateful, placed by the Secretary of State, for whom I do not, I believe that within a month he has succeeded in obtaining this experience and this knowledge and this behaviour on this topic that we are dealing with today. But, yes, and we'll have to do without him, I'm afraid with less good answers. Thus, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we appreciate the role and importance of craftsmen and small entrepreneurs and their housing associations, associations in 16 years of independent state, and their undisputedly important share, particularly in the economic and social development of Slovenia. It is therefore necessary to follow the economic and technological and general social changes in Slovenia and also in the wider European area, and to this end we believe that the law has a good purpose. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia has submitted a request for a general discussion of the law on changes and additions to the trade law only with a view to obtaining detailed and precise explanations from the Government on certain proposals for solutions and objectives of the law. Let us recall the gruesome debate in the public and in the National Assembly, the adoption of the Law on Economic Chambers and the question of compulsory or voluntary membership as one of the central issues of the law at that time. The law we are considering today proposes a reduced membership fee for the operation of the Chamber of Commerce. As a result, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we ask the Government what are the reasons and arguments that, unlike in the Economic Chambers Act of the adopted voluntary membership, it retains mandatory membership in the crafts law. We do not want to raise this issue simply for the sake of maintaining compulsory membership, but we have a feeling that the Government is considering a similar topic inconsistently. Whether such a decision by the Government may be a realization that a mistake has been made in the Chamber of Commerce Act or whether such a decision is merely a basis or an alibi for the introduction of compulsory membership into certain other chambers waiting for the adoption of their legislation. We all know that we are referring to the agricultural chamber, the medical room, the forestry chamber and so on. In the LDS, we know that the purpose of the Economic Chambers Act was to weaken the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, then the most powerful social partner on the side of employers, who was not in favour of the Government and tried to correct the Government's actions. And since Mr Jožko Čuk, President of the Economic Chamber at the time, who was not really prepared to change his attitude towards its members, and especially not to discuss the reduced membership and role of smaller companies in the offices of the Chamber, has fallen, the consequences are felt by all those who accompany the functioning of these institutions, are still working with themselves, instead of doing the task that was intended for them earlier and now under the law. This law does not, however, break the trade halls because the mandatory membership will be retained in substantially reduced height and overall. However, the question is what will be the quality and functioning of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia with such an amount of membership in the law. In particular, some representatives of the District Chambers have expressed doubts about such a membership in the amount of funds that will not allow for the quality of operation achieved so far. However, the proposal also calls into question the name of the Chamber of Commerce in the Chamber of Commerce and the broad definition of trades, which is likely to reach into the area of operations covered by the Chambers of Commerce. Since the regulation leaves the Government with a decision on what will be involved in trade activities, there is too much room for the creation of politically-friendly criteria and thus a decision in the regulation. In accordance with Article 5 of the Chamber of Commerce, transport and catering activities shall be considered to be a business if they are carried out by a sole entrepreneur and if they are carried out by d.o.o. or d.d. or d.o.b. or a company with unlimited liability, then this is no longer considered a trade under the current law. As the Government will decide by regulation under this law, we would like to find out at the LDS Club today and hope to receive an answer. In the LDS, we attach the concern of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to reduce the qualification conditions for carrying out those activities that are not hazardous to the health or property of persons or to the dangerous environment to the level of national professional qualifications. As members of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia have warned, national professional qualifications can far from be equivalent to completed vocational education. In the law, however, a master's examination or higher professional education for the exercise of a craftsmanship or longer practice in a craftsmanship is withdrawn than has been the classic training condition for a craftsmanship. The educational condition is reduced by the proposal to secondary vocational education. This is about deregulation of entry into trade. This refers to trade and entrepreneurship in the European Union, where the prescribed conditions for entry into activity should only be laid down for activities which are hazardous to health and property and which are dangerous to environmental pollution. The trade authorisation shall remain as a special act only for those trade-related activities requiring a qualification condition and shall replace the decision of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia by an official decision [[Article 4]] . This means that the educational conditions are severely impaired, the trade permit is no longer necessary, but it is a trade or trade-related activity that requires compulsory membership in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Liberalisation and elimination of administrative barriers-yes, but not at the expense of reducing the quality of products and services as a result of poor or insufficient education and knowledge. In the law, the current title of the Chamber of Commerce replaces or transforms into the title of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The purpose of redesigning or renaming is justified by the growing global competitiveness that Slovenian craftsmen or, above all, entrepreneurs face. In the display of regulation in other legal systems in Europe, we have not noticed anywhere that similar chambers are named as proposed by the Government. The term "entrepreneur" and "business" is, of course, broader than just small entrepreneurs, who, as we understand in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, are supposed to be members of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and in practice may result in confusion or even abuse. The question is also raised whether the so-called Chamber of Commerce and Industry will not become unfair competition for the Chambers of Commerce of Slovenia. The law may provide for a problematic provision in Article 9 of the proposed amendment, which adds in Article 40 of the current law, to provide for the financing of information and general professional advice from compulsory membership. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia also appears on the market, where voluntary membership or service companies with similar services operate, by supporting the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia with compulsory membership. The border between general and more specific information and advice may be quickly blurred. If the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia creates competition in the business services market and is supported by compulsory membership, this is contrary to European competition law. Once again, in the LDS Club, with the above mentioned dilemmas and the necessary answers to them, we wanted to remove all the doubts that arise, get clear answers and the basis for the vote. Otherwise, we believe that the law is suitable for further consideration, of course with the hope and expectation that some of our comments will be taken into account by the Government. Once again, I stress and count, and I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to explain to us all the previous speakers and to me and to future speakers the answers to these questions, which will be raised or raised during the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u256	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u257	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A nice greeting to the representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament. In the New Slovenia Group, we particularly closely monitor legislative proposals affecting the development of the economy, especially small economies, crafts and entrepreneurship. We are convinced that the promotion of business skills in every individual is crucial for the development of Slovenia as an economically successful country. Slovenian craftsmen and small entrepreneurs employ 57,482 workers, which is 12% of employees in companies. They created €4865 million, which is 7% of the company's income. It is unacceptable that the bureaucratic yoke would burden the establishment and operation of new plants. In Novi Slovenija, we welcome changes in the craft law because of our desire to establish a favourable climate for trade and small economy. It is micro and small enterprises that can respond best and most quickly to the challenges of the domestic and international markets, as well as to globalisation. In Novi Slovenije we will support such arrangements that will enable entrepreneurs to enter the market as easily as possible. We want to provide consumers with quality trade services and to make it as easy as possible for the providers of these services to do business. The government has drawn up a proposal for amendments to the crafts law that follows these objectives. We support such solutions in the New Slovenia Group. Most of us know at least from the explanation of the history of crafts and the Chamber of Commerce in Slovenia. In local environments, some of us are still closely connected to the functioning of the District Chambers, and the central Chamber of Commerce in Ljubljana has been closely involved in the drafting of the Law. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that the current organisation of craftsmen is a result of an entrepreneurial initiative from times not favoured by craftsmen. The craftsmen who developed their idea to the extent that they needed slightly more employees were not allowed to work. The problems they also faced with pension insurance conditioned the formation of a craftsmen's pension fund. In short, the reasons for the merger were enormous, mainly due to the common performance and greater benefit for the individual craftsman. In the New Slovenia Group we in principle advocate optional membership in all chambers. Although the situation in the Chamber of Commerce is somewhat specific, it is especially because the Chamber of Commerce has adapted to the changed situation and also because surveys during the Chamber of Commerce have shown that most tradesmen are in favor of compulsory membership. There is clearly an interest in a representative body at national level representing the needs of craftsmen and, at local level, the regional chambers attribute the role of educators and performers of certain statutory tasks. In the New Slovenia Group, we have always advocated only one single membership, of course, depending on the size of the craft, for an area of the whole country, which will on average be significantly lower than before. We have proposed and advocated that membership be divided between the district and central chambers in a ratio of 65:35, plus minus 5, which means that district chambers get 60% in the worst case case and 70% in the best case. This moving work is decided by the Assembly of the Chamber of Commerce, which gives this body a much greater weight. In our view, it is also very important that the proposal of the law also fully agrees with the Chamber of Commerce. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal to conclude that the law is suitable for second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u258	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Croat has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! We have clearly stated in the Coalition Treaty that we will increase the role of small and medium-sized enterprises in the assembly system and amend the rules so that the establishment of companies will be simpler, faster and more cost-effective. And that is exactly what this amendment to the law we are considering today defines. The changes and additions to this law are certainly positive, as deregulation facilitates the entry into craftsmanship. It brings significant changes in the amount and method of payment of the membership fee, which is reduced and regulated on the basis of the type and number of employees. The current craftsmanship system based on mandatory membership shall be maintained. Whether that's right or wrong, this moment is hard to say. I was myself when this law and compulsory membership began to be discussed, somewhat skeptical, but later on, on the basis of public opinion polls carried out by the Ministry and where clear results appeared - more than, I think about 70% of the respondents involved in the assembly system are obliged to say that they want such a assembly system to continue. And it kind of convinced me to stick to this idea, so I don't want to make much of an argument about it either, and I agree with it. So the members have decided to do so and so be it. As far as membership is concerned. Today, each craftsman pays in fact two memberships: one district trade hall, the other trade hall. The law provides for only one new membership, and this, of course, I welcome, which is then shared by the Regional Chamber and the Chamber of Commerce in Ljubljana. The ratio is 65:35, plus, minus 5%, I think it's a very good solution, which I absolutely agree with, but of course the assembly will eventually decide what the final division relationship will be. I think it would be right to respect the territorial principle in order to take account of it, which means that each regional chamber would receive in some way at least as much as its members in that area are paying. With this 65:35 ratio, plus, minus 5%, I think we're making this possible in some way, and I believe that the assembly of the Chamber of Commerce will follow these findings. This law also introduces deregulation; we will make it more accessible to carry out activities. Now, in my opinion, this is too demanding and reregulated. Doing business after a new one allows already completed vocational school. If someone's finished hair school, he's a hairdresser and he can be a hairdresser. So, the qualification requirement for the acquisition of a trade permit is decreasing. For certain activities to be determined later, the master's examination will also be abolished. Of course, I also welcome that. The economy is currently on the market and the market will determine who is a good craftsman and who is not a good craftsman. Education for implementation is not so important in this segment. It is mainly the deficit professions, and it is right that we have somehow reduced this level. In fact, the proposal for a new law gives us a great incentive, an incentive for an individual to decide to start a trade activity. I must say that, in my opinion, the law is very well prepared, of course, in today's debate, there will be some things that would be good to deal with with with an amendment, but otherwise I think that the law is certainly a good basis for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u260	Thank you. Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u261	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello again. Dear Secretary of State, Mr President and all present. I must say that, unlike the previous law on the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine, I will now be more deplorable in this law and will, I will say, "on other notes I must say that I will somehow support this trade law in the first reading, and it seems to me that the law is a good basis to go forward with the procedure. [[...]] Of course, no marriage is so good that it cannot be improved. Let me begin by saying that I am pleased that the Chamber of Commerce has not experienced the same fate as the Chamber of Commerce, which has experienced some kind of dismantling by the Government. And that, I think the government realized that she had made a mistake. Probably the reason is that there was a lot of willingness to reach consensus on both sides, both at the head of the Chamber of Commerce and at the Ministry of Economy or at the Government. I am sure that this is the only way to harmonise laws. I want to say that it is important that we all know together what trade means in Slovenia, small economy, entrepreneurship - what gives rise to greater economic growth in Slovenia, and we want to admit it or not. In particular, the legislator's task is to listen in particular to the wishes, abilities and the market itself of all interested parties. If I touch the content of the law briefly, I must say that I am particularly satisfied in this direction, that now or now people will come easier, who will want to engage in craftsmanship, to a trade permit. However, for some activities this trade permit will not be required at all. Of course, other questions are also raised here, and let us leave this to a follow-up procedure. If the so-called administrative barriers to trade are reduced and trades are further supported and new trade workshops are opened, then Slovenia is going in the right direction in this area. And if this also reduces the impact of the black market, then I think it's okay. It is also good that the Chamber of Commerce, planned in accordance with the law, was also preparing for the transformation of the craftsmen's law and from the Chamber of Commerce to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and that it had reacted in good time; perhaps this is where the Chamber of Commerce made a mistake. It also seems to me that the most important thing about this law, which I will probably support myself, is that this law largely meets the wishes of membership, with several aspects. You need to know that membership in the Chamber of Commerce is different, specific. The craftsmen worked with their own hands, with their own means, and if the government could easily dismantle the craftsmen's chamber, I don't think it would be okay. As I have already said, the reorganisation of the Chamber of Commerce is also taking place in line with the expectations of the Government, which is why there has not been a dismantling. We are all talking about memberships; I think it is right that membership has remained mandatory, in some ways it has also decreased, but of course still this membership allows that membership is well represented through the institutions of the Chamber of Commerce, well represented to the country, to the social partners, up to, I will say, legal advice and that this membership is also well informed. Of course, everything is not ideal in marriage, so we will also correct it in the procedure. I ask myself out loud when we are talking about the conditions for obtaining a trade permit, in particular, the qualifications conditions for which I think there may be a great deal of issues here, especially when we are also talking about the quality of services that the trader will place on the market, and here we need to be extremely careful. Mr Horvat said that the market will make its own, I agree that the market will make its own, but we still have to give the craftsmen a good foundation or the same conditions. Of course, this trade law will not somehow push the craftsman forward or grow with its expectations, so many other things will have to be settled in the country, but as far as the craftsmanship is concerned, it is acceptable to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u262	Thank you. Mrs. Kucler Dolinar.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u263	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to colleagues, colleagues in the hall and certainly also to many craftsmen and independent entrepreneurs accompanying today's meeting. Slovenian craftsmen, later independent entrepreneurs, were and are an important movement of the Slovenian economy, have a special role in the Slovenian economy. During the transition, they gave some jobs, not only to themselves, but also often to their family members or to third parties. And the operators were mostly persistent in their way, as they were accustomed to living from their work and persisted, often despite too many obstacles, formal obstacles, incomprehensible bureaucratic procedures, and often persisted despite bullying if individual officials imagined that they would not issue a permit to carry out their activities. They insisted on their way, they came to individual licenses, they came to a crafts permit, but in history these things were stacked into a mosaic, and certainly the consequences are visible today, too, that some of them could not develop in the direction they wanted to, in order to become or remain competitive. Where more than is the case in the economy - the opportunity is missed, no one returns. However, I am pleased that things are gradually being regulated, in some parts of the past they have also opened up, but in some other things they have also made it difficult, not only in terms of craftsmanship, but this is only one of the laws concerning such activities. It is indeed necessary to review this law, to review the system in the direction of organizing the Chamber itself or organizing the Chamber of Commerce. As already pointed out by my fellow Member, our New Slovenia Members' Group, Nova Slovenija advocates voluntary membership or that membership in such chambers is optional or in the long term also consider whether it would be better to organise the system in a way that is structurally divided, where one member feels in the context of his activities with another member involved in the same activity. In the framework of the Chamber of Commerce, this is partly compensated by the organisation by sections, where it makes it easier for the individual sections to fulfil their interests and to defend their interests further. Why a different approach as the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia - we have heard about this several times today. Why? Because we have to admit that the system of organisation and also the production of craftsrooms has been different. They organized from the bottom up, i.e. through the regional chambers of crafts later in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. And that is still to be felt today, perhaps the result of the survey also suggests that members feel with the chamber, but let us ask ourselves which chamber. They feel with the district trade hall, with which they often have the closest contact. Rarer and rather rare are those contacts with the Ljubljana headquarters, of course these contacts are, but today we must recognize who serves, who is also responsible for such a result of the survey that is being heard today. From this point of view, we have also warned the Minister at the time of the creation of this proposal of the law, in particular that we will not support any change in our parliamentary group, which would reduce the role of the regional trade chambers in favour of the centre, i.e. now the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia at Celovška in Ljubljana. The Minister has also listened to this argument, and so has this percentage of the division of membership between the centre, if I put it simplisticly, in Ljubljana and between the individual regional chambers of commerce, and it is true that the final percentage will depend on what the assembly of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry will conclude. So, the most ideal in relation to the regional rotational chambers in the ratio of 60 to 40. It seems appropriate for us that the amount of this membership will also depend on the number of members of the Chamber and on the area, as a fuse, to ensure that this share is high in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the Regional Chamber of Commerce. Above all, from now on, we expect the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, i.e. from the centre, to cut off a suitable piece of cake to the regional chambers of commerce and that this piece will not be cut off mačehovska. It's from the point of view of the chamber. However, I believe that there is a much more important second aspect, i.e. the view on the part of an individual member of the Chamber of Commerce, what changes will bring to the members of the Chamber of Commerce. It is appropriate that the ceiling for membership is set, which is EUR 50 for those with more than 10 employees. In order not to be a misleading statement by my fellow Member from the National Party, let me stress that such independent entrepreneurs with more than 10 employees are 6% of the share of trade and entrepreneurship. Most of them are self-employed. These are about 48% and for these are the starting point of EUR 20 per month. I do not have the budget myself, but I do hope or ask whether this means that for an individual operator, i.e. for this largest group of independent entrepreneurs, the amount of the monthly contribution will increase or decrease on average. Here, however, I expect that this derogation will not be too great for anyone to have a significant upward deviation, in particular that there will be a downward deviation and, in fact, a decrease in costs, and above all, a balanced contribution to the Chamber in terms of what it offers, from education, advice and so on. It is true that on average the craftsmen are satisfied with the attitude of the chamber. And here I would point out that, surely, when asked about it, they are referring to the district hall they have at their door. We also talked about master's exams. This too will be partly done for individual professions. I'm sure that's appropriate to some extent. The average cost of the exam was, as I have seen on the website of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, about EUR 1,500. Here I wish that this deficit, which will certainly also occur at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, would not be sought elsewhere, not least at the regional chambers of commerce or through membership by members. In view of the fact that the Minister and the Ministry were acceptable to individual proposals during the course of the procedure, for the individual improvements that we have also proposed in the New Slovenia Group, I can rightly expect that, with this second hearing, we will clear up some of the issues that I have raised myself, which have been or will be highlighted by my colleagues today in the debate, so I think it is right that the proposal for a law goes forward and is also for further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u264	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Dear President, Mr Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! The Commercial Chamber Act is certainly one of the important gestures of this Government and also of this Parliament. I am very pleased with today's very positive climate in this House, and this affection for this law, which has been led by the Ministry through all this debate, I believe that Members, too, have been given a whole through the regional units, which is a good basis for the further adoption of this law. I am pleased that this was a close cooperation with the Slovenian Regional and Chamber of Commerce, with the ministries and that optimal synergy was sought on how to make the most optimal law for membership, for craftsmen, for this type of economy. I think that in this too, the Minister and the Ministry succeeded in coming to Parliament today with a truly coordinated work, that there is no opposition, that the letter we received from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia is positive that this is harmonised, that they welcome the good, coordinated changes and that they give new impetus to trade in Slovenia, entrepreneurship and that I also think this is very positive as a Member. Of course, district chambers have certainly played an important role. These have the heart of entrepreneurship in these areas where they are, and I think that 62 certainly gives that direct contact with craftsmen as first information, first aid and certainly there the craftsman sees the first one. I find it difficult to judge how successful the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia is at the heart of this I do not know so much. I know the area well, and they are very successful and effective. Why a model like that? This question has been raised several times. Simply because a model like that was said and wanted by members. The membership was expressed in the Chamber of Commerce and there is a slightly different opinion. The polls were completely different there. They are in the Chamber of Commerce, and we have listened to this model and this will of membership. That's why it's not voluntary here in this model. I hope that any next chamber that will come to Parliament will also listen to the voice of membership, whether it is agricultural, whether it is pharmacy, health or any other. The voice of those for whom we adopt legislation must have a special weight. And if the members say so, we will have a mandatory membership because we want to be serious, responsible, representative, and therefore they have it. That this is smaller - that too has been heard. I think that this difference, the gap between 10 and 50 euros, is the right thing to do, is not given to everyone, because it doesn't matter whether you have one employee or twelve, and it's also accepted. In short, all these things have given good cooperation, complementarities, and I think that this debate, which is ongoing and will take place until the end of today, will bring about another good issue. However, I think that all these proposed additions are for the benefit of both tradesmen and consumers, definitely. Why, in essence, do we meet this condition, why greater competitiveness - it will certainly be possible for this law to be more competitive, which is good for the consumer than it is for the craftsman. A bigger offer on the market - I think that there is still a lot of service activities that we need in Slovenia, but unfortunately there are not yet. Perhaps this will be an incentive for a new craftsman who will recall one or another activity that is lacking and may make it easier for him to come up with a trade permit because he may not have the appropriate education or other conditions he had so far. I think this has to be as open as possible. I agree, however, that for certain cases such as health, such as the environment, it would be right to have some different criteria, but a little more strict, so that something special is not going on there. But we're going to, uh, we're going to fix this with some kind of amendment. Lower prices for services - this will also make it possible. Less work in black - certainly, more employment, less unemployment, all of this can be connected if the country is friendly to craftsmen, to entrepreneurs. And this law shows the country's kindness to entrepreneurship, to the craftsmanship that has been in history, unfortunately, many times neglected, were difficult times. Last but not least, I come from a craftsman's family, and I know the history of 20 years ago, as it was then that craftsmanship was an unfriendly environment, an extremely unfriendly environment. Thank God, today this is essentially different, and this law will make it even better. And what I think is that every country and every responsible Member wants the economy and conditions of the economy to be even more economical, and the country thus gives the conditions. And here is this framework that I see as a step forward. This will also give the end to the consumer what may not have been. In short, this law gives us all craftsmen and citizens. It is also important that this division 65:35, plus 5, minus 5, set by the Assembly, is the step that remains autonomy at local level, the regional level, that they also have their own source of revenue, that they can continue to carry out their mission in favour of that membership at the micro level, the local level, as it has been so far. So that there is no difference, for once the money flies back to the center, it is difficult to return to the region or congregation. This is where the autonomy stays. And finally, you know, everything that's free in life, gifted, is usually not appreciated. And even if you get a free service, you can't really appreciate it, but if you pay 10 euros for that service, the relationship between craftsmen and district chambers will certainly be different. And I think this thing is a good compromise between the ministry and the district chamber. Finally, with this law, membership will remain minimal and thus this continuity of representation will somehow remain in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u266	Thank you. Mr. Weber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u267	Thank you for your word. Of course, the role of trades in the development of the economy, as well as the welfare of the whole country, must be highlighted in the consideration of the law on crafts. It is a sector that fills all those gaps that remain unrecovered in our daily needs, and trade is so important for the development of every place that I do not say the congregation and, of course, the country. It is precisely because of this flexibility that it is particularly important for them to unite in the Chamber and that it is extremely important for them to organize the Assembly. Both at the district level, if he can call it that, because they're grouped into district chambers, and otherwise a merger into a chamber at the state level. In fact, it is only in this way that they can fill the gap they have in their activities, when they do not actually have enough resources to have employees and all those who would monitor their legislation, especially financial operations, and in short manage everything that happens in their daily lives. Of course, congregational organisation is of paramount importance to them. I think it's also a very simple dilemma about whether compulsory membership in the Chamber or optional. Certainly, if anyone is deemed to have a strong enough desire for this membership to be compulsory, he also ensures that they really come to information and that they can also express their opinions in an organised manner and that they are an interlocutor, not least, not even to the government or the department ministry. Each individual or small craftsman will, of course, find it significantly more difficult to contact either the Government or the Ministry. Coming through the chamber is, of course, much more effective. In all of this, I would point out in particular the fact that education is involved. In fact, craftsmen also have a tremendous desire for education, training, and the search for personnel. However, it is again and again that education is the least appropriate one within this system. While part of the membership may also be devoted to upgrading, education, but I would like to refer my debate to yesterday's debate on financing education and education. In fact, we have a network of professional schools in Slovenia, funded by the head, those students who attend these schools. And it happens that programs are being abolished because there is too little entry, although this activity lives in this environment, but it is not possible for this profession to be educated because in a certain year it was accidentally too little entry. Thus, it would be worth really thinking about whether it is on the title of craftsmanship that the financing of education and education is also being examined and whether it makes sense for us to increase public funding for private schools, which in fact will bring nothing new to this area, but they are already causing a lack of resources and thus abolishing individual programmes in existing vocational schools in Slovenia. This, I think, is an exception to a large issue that I think we should address more specifically in this law and is also crucial for the further successful development of crafts in Slovenia. The other things that are written down in this law are, of course, acceptable, followed by this trend of possibility of organising a craftsmanship, but would also point to the fact that they will need to be truly precise and clean up their relationship to individual regional organisations, trade chambers, given that membership will be uniform, that a percentage of division will be prescribed among the republics, if I may say so, and the local trade hall, and that there will be no problems in areas such as where there are few crafts to organize in the district chambers. It is likely that the Assembly will have an important role to play in developing membership in the future, which is likely to require further study and further elaboration of the next readings of this law in Parliament. Otherwise, I think that the national rural development programme itself adopted by the Government should also examine and see what impact this national programme could have to support the development of trades, especially in rural areas and places where it is actually difficult to organise larger production, and of course trade is possible, and it is likely that there will also be some more effective measures than we have today. Of course, I will support this law in this consideration, but I expect that we will continue to try even more in this law for education in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u268	Thank you. Mr. President has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u269	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representative from the Ministry of Economy, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Initially, I must say that it is very good that this law has been truly coordinated with the Chamber of Commerce since the beginning of the preparation, in line with the membership of the Chamber of Commerce, this is the basic condition for good law. Probably a little contrary to what happened in the preparation of the law at the Chamber of Commerce. It is good that the name is also changed, that the name is also added to this entrepreneurial spirit and it is good that this craftsmanship chamber is now called. It is also good to specify more precisely and in the final stage also to reduce membership due to my assessment that only this way is possible [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to defend and personally promote compulsory membership, of course, under this condition of appropriate membership and in further appropriate services provided [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u270	Thank you. Mr Rugelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Nice greetings for everyone, especially Mr Jeršič, the Secretary of State, and his co-worker! I think we have heard so many good things about this law today, and I believe that there will be considerable support in Parliament. Not to mention that this law is very important to some 50,000 craftsmen. If we multiply this by number 3 or 4, the number of people who are involved in craftsmanship and also live on this title is increased by that number. We can say that at the Ministry of the Economy they have really drawn up a good law, despite the fact that there have been concerns about compulsory, optional membership. I think that long-term membership is supposed to be optional, as it is elsewhere in Europe. This is also the most democratic. At this point, there have been so many changes, as well as good changes, that it would probably be pointless at this time to interfere with the obligation of membership. I believe the Minister made the right decision. Finally, we would face a problem, a divisional problem of the property of the Chamber of Commerce, which would bring a lot of problems behind us. As far as the level of membership is concerned, there have been quite a few discussions on this. I myself have advocated that membership be a minimum mandatory membership, and the rest of it should somehow be earned by selling my services. This means that those craftsmen who benefit more from the craftsmanship would also somehow pay more. I think that this law will also allow that indeed the Chamber of Commerce can make some money in this way too, so I think it would be very appropriate if we could think somehow at the Ministry of the Economy also about maybe changing that amount of membership a little bit and writing that it is the maximum membership. I believe that Mr Jeršič will pass this on to Mr Minister, I think that this proposal is good to write, somehow, that the maximum membership is laid down by this law, that otherwise the membership is determined by the Chamber of Commerce itself, the Assembly of the Chamber of Commerce, but at the highest level, as set out in the table. This will allow the Chamber of Commerce a little more power if they earn more money there, so that they can also reduce membership to the wishes of their members, additional membership and, therefore, it would not be necessary to amend the law if this amendment were to take place. I believe that Minister Vizjak, who is very perceptive and acceptable for good initiatives, I believe that you will also take this initiative seriously at the Ministry. By the way, I can say that I am really happy that this law, as I said before, is about 50,000 members now that it will allow the number of memberships to actually increase, because under the new law it will be easier to reach the status of a single entrepreneur and so is the right one. That's how much I'd have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u272	Thank you. Mr. Juban, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u273	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That's kind of how I'd start. We have a good law before us, where I will support the proposal to provide a suitable basis for further consideration. In particular, I would like to highlight a good one, because this is not exactly my belief, but this is what the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia calls it. It is interesting to me what the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia wrote, namely, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia considers amendments and the addition of the trade law to be positive, as they bring about easier entry into the business and bring about substantial changes in the amount and manner of payment of the membership fee, in the rounding of the lower membership fee. I find this attitude rather unusual. Part one. Facilitated entry into the business. Over the years, we have an average higher level of education in Slovenia. And as we increasingly educate ourselves, on the other hand, we reduce the conditions for entry into an activity with so-called smaller bureaucratic obstacles. And that someone convinces me that someone who finishes hair school who can do a good hairstyle can become a craftsman tomorrow, a good craftsman. No one will ever convince me of this, and this path to my notions is no good. That obstacles, actual bureaucratic obstacles to reducing themselves, to eliminating them, I agree that people do not fly from door to door, from institution to institution, and that they meet some forms to open up some activity. But to reduce the level of education, the necessary modernisations, which are also obtained by practical work, by master's exam, etc., nobody will convince me of this, and I am sure that neither does the craftsmen's chamber. Important people at the Chamber of Commerce said that this solution was not the best. Part two. How can I believe that they are thrilled with the lower membership when they say that the activities they have carried out will no longer be carried out? How can a system be interested in carrying out a smaller range of activities that are in favour of craftsmen, as it has so far done. It means that there had to be an offer in the back, that you will know whether to buy what we are offering you, or whether you will get even less. What's the less? Volunteer membership. What is present at the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber - colleagues, especially from the People's Party, you will know that this is no secret, that or we will agree on some conditions that are what we will say, someone in the coalition, or we will remove your mandatory membership and you are on your knees. Or, if you don't do well, in the Chamber of Commerce or the agri-land chambers. At present or for some time, we will still have the thought that we must get a lot in this country for free. And also from the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Agriculture, the Economics, there was a completely different approach, there was no decisive survey of what membership would be, compulsory or voluntary. He's not in the trade, either. If we go to the farm to survey, 80% of the members are in favour of abolishing mandatory membership, and we will see what will remain of this chamber. Something like this would have happened in the craftsmanship, but not exactly the same. It means that we have a law on the table that is an offer or buy this or much less, then it was a choice for a trade hall to have what we have in front of us. I am particularly afraid that this bill will not change to a large extent and that it will remain as it is. And those two solutions aren't the best. Mr Ruglja's proposal is interesting when he says that membership should be maximized. To see the chamber, the assembly of the chamber, whether it will really minimize membership, because it is probably in this direction. Now show yourself at the chamber, if you're really up for as low a membership as you can. That's a very good suggestion. And think about it at the Ministry of the Economy if we could maybe develop such an approach to membership. And if these things were to be somewhat corrected in the area of education and membership, you might really get a proposal on the table that would be edifying, but in particular these two solutions I see some thing that is not the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u274	Thank you. Mr. Pojbich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u275	Respectable. The novelty of a craftsman’s law brings simplification or elimination of many administrative obstacles faced by craftsmen in everyday work. One of these simplifications is the abolition of qualification conditions, i.e. appropriate vocational education for most craftsmanship. That this is necessary has been demonstrated by the practice so far. This means that activities which are not hazardous to human health and property and which are not hazardous to the environment are exempted from the requirement of adequate professional competence. The qualification requirement for the exercise of craftsmanship remains the master's examination, a title introduced after more than 30 years' break by the 1994 craftsmen's law. However, a new provision is made, as an appropriate condition, for at least the relevant higher professional education and conditions in force in the EU and laid down in Directive 99/42/EC, and is summarised in the field of recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions or regulated professional activities in the Republic of Slovenia. This means that persons who comply with the new condition no longer need to join in carrying out the master's examination, which has been compulsory by the regulation so far. There is also an extension of the entry requirement for access to a master's examination for at least secondary vocational education, allowing individuals great freedom to create their professional orientation. The current qualification conditions for carrying out trades of similar activities, such as at least an appropriate vocational education or a professional qualification test carried out at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, shall be removed, thereby substantially releasing the entry requirement for the performance of these activities. The simplifications proposed will, in my view, bring benefits to both tradesmen and consumers. Increasing the number of craftsmen will strengthen their position and create greater and, above all, more modern competitiveness, and will result in greater choice and price cuts for consumers. On the other hand, it will reduce noise and work to black. I therefore support the proposed amendments to the crafts law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u276	Thank you. Mr. Gulic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u277	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Many sweet words have been heard so far about the proposal of this law. I am convinced that this is also relatively justified because of the way it was produced. This time, however, it is true of what we hear here many times, that the law was formed in cooperation with those who were really meant to be concerned and pursued, let us say, by what we heard yesterday in school law. In contact with Slovenian craftsmen, this has also been confirmed to me. In most cases they are satisfied with what has come about, although of course they are also counting on a matter to be rectified and amended. In fact, I am concerned about this nonconsistency of the proposer in this law, according to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which treats compulsory and optional membership so differently. There is a mandatory membership, it was optional at the Chamber of Commerce. Similarly, it also happens in various other chambers, one being given strong powers or given them, say, Health care, and others would take all the powers, for example, in a chamber dealing with protection. It is said that the treatment of chambers works in some way like a carrot and a stick. In fact, already in advance, different parts of society, different social groups, put different stakeholders in a very unequal position. Whether this uniform membership is good or not, then the craftsmen will say so themselves. I think that, however, there is also a need to take into account a frequently proclaimed principle on the equitable development of the Slovenian regions. We know that we have chambers that are so small that they could not actually survive, even if they are left with all the membership. It is likely that due to what specifics it will be necessary to determine when any of these chambers directly linked to craftsmen may still exist when they do not. This is a matter that is not in marriage for once, but it would still be worth considering. However, I can certainly join that minimum criterion that the law is prepared so that it is suitable for further consideration, but it still needs to be addressed, complemented and taken into account by something other than what has been written so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u278	Thank you. Mr. Root.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u279	I think we are talking today about one important law for which is an important part of the Slovenian population, which from their work as craftsmen live, survive themselves, their families, as well as a wider circle of Slovenes. I think we all now agree that this is one of the more important segments in Slovenia. I will remember, however, that the craftsmen, that this industry went through one very difficult calvary in the previous period after World War II, when, I think, all along, the enemies of that country, who, at least I say, were joined together and joined together, and that is probably why their chamber, at least in my opinion, is different from that of the other chamber in Slovenia. These people had to prove themselves with their stings, especially with their hands, and to fight for their existence during this period, and I am sure that the industry, as such, has created one hard skin and is in fact able to face all the problems they have encountered on this journey. It is not surprising, therefore, that the harmonisation of this law is now being achieved in the National Assembly by the Chamber of Commerce. I've been in quite a dilemma myself, as far as membership is concerned. I must say that I have, in principle, advocated very much voluntary membership in the Chamber. I have met many craftsmen in recent years, and I must say that I have come to this realization that they already know why this is good or even otherwise I would have hoped to say, even if they had accepted a voluntary membership today, I am sure that the Chamber of Commerce would have stayed as strong as it is now. Perhaps it would be right to recall the history of our craftsmen, theirs to remember the period of Slovenian independence, when the Slovenian economy was in a severe crisis, when the markets were lost, that at that time Slovenian craftsmen were the ones who were easier to overcome these problems than a large economy, and that they also deserved that this transition of our economy was successful. If we didn't have craftsmen at the time, I think it would be a lot harder for our economy in this period. As far as removing bureaucratic barriers to the establishment of craftsmanship is concerned, I think it's a very good thing. Otherwise, under this concept, I understand more this removal of barriers to sending from door to door, always with new requirements for additional documents. I think these things have really improved a lot with us and things have been simplified. However, I must say that as far as the reduction in the level of education is concerned, I am rather reserved here. I think we should be more careful here. I even look here for the benefit of the craftsmen themselves. I think it is right that they themselves are concerned that the education structure, which is as high as possible, is generally increasing in all segments this complexity of education, and therefore it does not seem good for craftsmen to lower it. I hope that this will not have too much consequences, or that there will be no mass reduction, or that I could say that there will be a lower level of education for craftsmen, for I too see the purpose of the Chamber primarily in educating their members. For successful development, it is certainly important to follow all the new developments emerging in the world. I want the law to give one new start to craftsmen in Slovenia, so that their initiatives can be implemented as quickly as possible and contribute to even greater prosperity in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u280	Thank you. Mr. Versnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u281	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I think in case we want to understand craftsmanship, it's right that we also know a little history. History is an eternal teacher. In our socialist regime, craftsmen were unwelcome, strongly subjected to the torture of tax authorities. This was also the reason, and such conditions forced these craftsmen to unite. Of course, in order to help each other with their experiences, advice, and, above all, their eternal problems, this is bureaucracy. So the association grew and gained meaning, most importantly, the craftsmen took their own. Of course, over time, there has been a transformation into the regional chambers and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry as a umbrella and is envisaged in this proposal for a law. Of course, we can see that development has taken place in the opposite direction, as we have had the case in the Chamber of Commerce. He went from the bottom up and not from the top down, which, of course, is an essential difference. I claim that the craftsmen in our country, in particular I can say this about the environment where I live, have solved the crisis in Slovenia caused by the breakup of Yugoslavia. There were those at the time when the great giants were falling apart one after the other, when the people stayed on the road one time and, of course, not without knowledge and decided to go into a series of craftsmen. Clearly, they took their colleagues, the best qualified people with them, and set up first trade workshops, then smaller businesses. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have always appreciated their work and their contribution to the national economy. I submit that it is right that the Government has coordinated with the representatives of craftsmanship and this coordination has led to a consensus that we all find here today in this Chamber. In order to reduce barriers to the acquisition of a trade permit, I think the aim is to achieve a reduction in work in black. It is likely that a number of people who now risked black work because of obstacles that were probably too high placed on it will decide that they were working in black instead of opening up trade and doing business legally. I think this is one major contribution to better regulation of this trade and legal work on our market. The membership, as the most delicate issue, was, of course, the hardest in coordination, so we are pleased that this amount, which is now proposed - EUR 10 to 50, given the number of employees, in line with all partners and somehow expressed the will of the majority of craftsmen, because I know that several surveys have been carried out to this end. The law is positive and gives craftsmen the opportunity to develop further, which is probably what all of us who are here today certainly want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u282	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u283	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Commercial Law has been extensively debated in terms of the operation of the Chamber of Commerce and the Regional Chambers of Commerce, in particular as regards the actual purpose of the funds used in the membership fee. The majority of craft not included in the structure itself are in some way either problematic or questionable about the usefulness of the use of compulsory membership funds. In a way, now the law of the matter with full consistency in fact with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia somehow regulates in a way that specifies which activities this mandatory membership may apply to. If this is a public obligation, then those activities financed by these funds must also be allocated to all members, and some public criterion must be provided. At the same time, the next step reduces this amount of compulsory membership. If, over the past two years, it is supposed to be reduced by some 9%, which is a very precise figure, it is now expected to fall by another 19% on some average at the highest by some 40%, with the lowest by more than 100%, from 24 to 10 and from 81 euros to 50 euros. In view of all these dilemmas and discussions and also the need for the kind of trade hall as an institution to act in the interest of membership, in their favour, to have an enormously high percentage spent on the operations of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia alone, according to my data of 70%, which means a high amount, given that now almost 14 million euro per annum is to be collected, 70% of this is a very high amount for the activity itself of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia for the issuance of the craftsmen and then other activities which, at such a high amount, should in fact be under the supervision of all craftsmen, whether they are indeed intended and useful for them. I think that in all this debate on commitment or non-obligation, the determination of membership by the legislator, the state, is now primarily on the members of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to reach, through their representatives, in the Chamber of Commerce as well as in the regional chambers, that their institution works more effectively, more in their interest, however generalised this may be. I think that the proposal by my colleague Rugl, who is in fact very democratic and leaves the Chamber of Commerce to determine the amount of membership that should not be higher than ours, and is actually a very kind instrument, is entirely sovereign then the Chamber of Commerce itself, through its competent delegates and representatives, decides on this. Not that this membership is now intended to decrease indefinitely or into abnormal amounts, but, above all, this is a very good internal motive for all the authorities and all those employees who work and spend, say, at least at the level of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, 70% of the funds of these 14 million euros, in fact, to do a run-down and universal benefit if we speak in a general way. These craftsmen really know what they can expect from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Of all these services offered by the Chamber of Commerce, Worlds and Educations, what is likely to be useful for all will have to be exhausted, and should be drawn from membership, everything else is payable and organised, if organised, through the Chamber of Commerce from the marketed assets. I'd like to mention the required level of education. In my opinion, there must be some life here. I agree that this level of education, in fact the formal level of education can be reduced, by simply expecting craftsmen to realize that knowledge, not just skills, knowledge of the development of their activities is important, as is true for most crafts, in fact for all, including traditional crafts - that knowledge is the first and that formal knowledge is not too much. And if they have that knowledge, they should formalize it. We have also made this possible through legislation. It is also possible to formalise informally acquired knowledge by certifying it. So, somehow, even though I personally think that the level of education should be as high as possible, I think that by allowing lower education we only allow more craftsmen to formalize it, of course, while, as I have already said, they must in fact realize that informal knowledge and skills are very important, knowledge is very important, and that for them there should not be too much, and sophistication in the sense that now a kinder law regarding the level of education should not be formalised. This is always an investment for the future, although some believe that paper is just paper. True, but sometimes it's necessary and necessary. I'll support the marriage. I think it is an incentive for the authorities in the Chamber of Commerce, but above all for membership, to express their views in discussions and informal contacts, to try to take a serious approach, to involve themselves in decision-making or to change things within their organisation. This is supposed to be an invitation and perhaps a response to all those already in this amendment to the law, in the last 15 years, that is, according to my data, a third amendment to the law to ensure that they themselves properly regulate the things that we now determine more or less by the State, the legislator. However, I think Mr Rugl's proposal is and will be considered by the Ministry, and that we will hear some opinion on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u284	Thank you. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u285	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Representative of the Ministry of Economy! Dear colleagues and colleagues! With great satisfaction, I am following this debate and I think we have a pretty good proposal for a new trade law on the table. As has already been said today, in drafting the text of this proposal, the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group has been very involved with various visits by craftsmen, including interviews and receptions by representatives of certain regional trade chambers. This is a very important segment of the Slovenian economy. If we look at the register, the trade register, we see that the end of last year was 47,466 plants, of which 39,818 or poor 84% of natural persons, independent entrepreneurs, and 7,648 or good 16% of legal persons. The trade also represents an extremely important share in the structure of GDP, employs over 100,000 people, and what we find particularly important in the New Slovenia Group is that we also have extremely good Slovenian innovators in the trade segment. I'm not going to talk about the details of this bill. A lot of this has already been said. Of course, I welcome the easier entry into the craftsmanship of the economy, which is why we have also committed ourselves to the coalition contract, in order to strengthen certain supervisory functions of the state administration, I am thinking mainly of inspection services. As far as membership or compulsory and optional membership is concerned, I think the proposal is good. It seems particularly important to me to greet a particular feeling, I would say, to the domestic and art trade, where we raise the threshold of exemption from membership. Making Slovenia a rich country of prosperity with more entrepreneurial spirit and initiative, with more knowledge and fewer burdens and obstacles to business, especially in a small economy, is certainly the wish of all of us who sit here and make extremely important legal decisions. At the same time, this is also a basic message of the adopted vision and strategy of the Slovenian craft organisation. A clear demand for changes and reforms in some key areas of governance has been made in the types of craftsmen and small entrepreneurs years ago and it is clear that small economic operators should be considered first under each new act or regulation. Today we can see that there are certainly not many of those that have been in history who are unaware of the necessity of permanent change and of creating a more competitive economy. If you allow me to keep looking for next year. Slovenia will chair the European Union next year and it is also right for craftsmen and entrepreneurs to prepare well for this. This must also be a "opportunity" for Slovenian craftsmanship. Europe will have to reveal some of its secrets, i.e. Slovenian craftsmen. For example, the art of doing business and their success when, in the face of poor competitiveness, a country with high economic growth and employment growth, or how Slovenian craftsmen manage to survive despite one of the highest hygiene standards in the European Union, extremely high requirements in the field of safety and health and in the field of personal data protection. In this last segment of recent times, we have only been doing some for the Slovenian trade of positive movement. If the European Union has become a password in recent years, 'think small first', then it is only right that Europe, under the chairmanship of small Slovenia, realises that our economy is not only "a bit beautiful", but also "a little one grows a lot". I welcome Slovenian craftsmen and I propose a little more confidence and we can already say bob beans. We're good, we're great, and we're gonna be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u286	Thank you. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u287	Thank you, President. I'm trying to be nice, or I'm gonna try to be nice, and I have to say, I don't know if I can make it. Yesterday we attended two long points in the field of primary education, among us was the minister with his strong team and actively participated in a similar tone or similar type of debate, i.e. not the same type of general debate about a law. He actively cooperated and we received answers, and we got explanations on the questions and dilemmas that were emerging. But today, I'm looking at both representatives of the Ministry, waiting for no one, they only have 15 minutes at their disposal, and, as it looks like, it's already been decided at the beginning that they won't answer anyway, because in 15 minutes, you can't even comment, you can't even answer. And that is why I call on you, Mr Jeršič, or my colleague, to tell us at least something of your opinion before we conclude this debate ourselves in order to possibly get a sense of what you think about this law in this ministry and what the procedures have been. However, as far as I am concerned, I will continue my debate with some Members who have talked about how it would be necessary to leave the Chambers to reflect on the reduction of membership. Looks like you had a bad conversation with the chambers, the district hall, and the central chamber. If we were to talk, we would know that they are dissatisfied with this article, that it does not provide them with normal work, quality work, and do not expect them to serve you with this willingness to lower this membership. That's why we said, this is some rotten compromise with which you've reached a mandatory membership, and this obviously, after the taste of those with whom I've been talking, is questionable and does not guarantee and do not believe that it will be as high-quality as possible to carry out this activity so far. As a result, it is clear to me that in this way it becomes questionable what is actually to be known in this Chamber. The Chamber was created in such a way that it was first voluntary in response to the fact that some groups of entrepreneurs and economists did not have the relevant interlocutors of the Chambers of Commerce. This was also volunteering, and a mandatory chamber was created out of this volunteerism and this connection between all these actors. This mandatory chamber had a membership with which some were dissatisfied, some were satisfied, but it allowed for the quality of the work of this chamber and the presentation of those interests and the representation of those interests that membership must actually feel. In this case, there is this doubt, and I fear that this may be one such step in the unknown, for which I would like to know whether Mr Jeršič will tell me how these matters have been settled or whether they have agreed. When Mr Krivec spoke about supporting the change of name to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, he said only because it was more appropriate. I'd like to hear from the Ministry's representative what's more appropriate, what makes entrepreneurship, what's it supposed to mean to be in this business name, which is the size of these entrepreneurs, whether you're over 10 or over 100 or just that small up to 10. So I would like to know what this term is for entrepreneurs, because it seems to me that what we cannot afford will happen, the competition between the two institutions that have to represent the different players in this economy market. As far as these polls are concerned, for which we have heard such praises, whether we have done so democratically or democratically. I would like to know, and I expect this answer today, in fact, how many tradesmen, members of the District Chambers and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia have responded to this survey, and how and by what criteria the Ministry has chosen these surveyors, surveyors and what participation in this survey has actually been and how much this means in this structure of what you said was the basis for the decision. So once again, I am prepared, in the Liberal Democracy we are in favour of this law in a similar way, I hope that a slightly modified form will be adopted, because the craftsmen and entrepreneurs who belong to this Chamber deserve to have peace once, that they do not deal with themselves, that they continue to work normally, and that they are actors who are also an accomplice to the Government and the National Assembly in adopting the legislation that they are concerned with. As far as membership is concerned, at least for me in the last indent, when it comes to a maximum of 50 euros, there is one dilemma. And that's what I want to hear. Where does that stop? Because it says, "economic societies with ten or more employees." Whether there is another act restricting these companies, or by number or income, I do not know by what criterion. And I would now like to know that before we come to decision-making even today or even more at second reading. We're all very friendly with these craftsmen. I want to be nice, too. I'm from construction. The construction industry used a lot of craftsmen in its activities. And at the time, as the director of the companies I led, I had a special relationship with these people, because I think they are trustworthy, that the potential that needs to be protected and defended and given them recognition. We should not move, and the government should not sweep the law so quickly as to explain to Members in 15 minutes what they think about this law and how and what they think about our proposals and changes. And here I find underestimation and here I think the government has taken the wrong step to create a general climate for the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u288	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u289	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Very briefly, given the time I have. The craftsmen. No one has anything against craftsmen. We're talking about the Chamber of Commerce. And no one has anything against her. In the debate, someone said that there were only 6% of those companies that should worry me. Look, I'm not worried about anything, and even if we're accurate, don't say 6%, because we know there's 5.7. That's not six. But the fact is, 5.7 of these companies have 73.6% of the capital in their hands. And who runs the country? Capital or number of enterprises or percentage of enterprises? I think it's capital. And, however, the proposal, as it was suggested, that membership should be, somehow the Chamber of Commerce should be the one who would not go higher in membership than proposed by this law. I agree, but the Chamber of Commerce is already accusing him of having too little money. Where is she going? She's not gonna go any lower, she's not stupid. It will remain at EUR 50 or at that minimum as prescribed. And that's it. Therefore, to deceive the public and everyone else that this is a compromise proposal, it is not about what news in the SDS, but I think it is totally stupid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u290	Thank you. Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u291	Thank you for your word. I must say that when I follow the debate, I am somehow satisfied that most agree that this law is good, that it brings many advantages, that it also allows easier employment in crafts. While some concerns from the opposition have just been expressed in terms of what will happen if large companies can enter trade and similar things. However, those who have looked at the law in force know that this is not possible and that the existing legislation in Article 5 clearly defines what is a trade and what is not a trade. We can also explain the reasons for the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. It was proposed that the title of the Chamber be transformed into the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, in particular for the reason that the name should also be followed by amendments. I quote this from the material of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Today, the Slovenian economy is a market-open economy integrated into the European Union's single market and at the same time into global economic movements, which certainly applies to our turnover. Global competition now, as in the future, imposes requirements for creating a competitive economy that can be achieved at the level of development of Slovenia only if it is based on the development of the knowledge of the whole population, on the application of entrepreneurship, on an enabling business environment and on the creation of an entrepreneurial culture in Slovenian society. The proposal to change the title of the Chambers follows the importance of entrepreneurship and, of course, also makes it clear that turnover is both an important part of entrepreneurship today and in the future. And important: every craftsman is an entrepreneur and every entrepreneur is not a craftsman. That is why this extension makes sense in this dictatorship. At the same time, in the new millennium, it is necessary to take into account the fact that craft cannot be understood as handicrafts, but that craft becomes synonymous with modern craftsmanship. Therefore, there is also a proposal for this amendment. This proposal was also forwarded by the Chamber of Commerce. As far as education and concerns are concerned, you probably all agree that this requirement needs to be deregulation in some sense and that this proposal in the law is useful for employment of those who are more difficult to employ or who have actually met the conditions that have so far been applicable to craft employment. It's hard to imagine, say, one "malar" or someone who we're setting some extreme conditions for an education to be able to perform such activities. And similar professions, which are actually at the level of vocational education, are sufficient for someone to carry out an activity which is, of course, recognised as a trade and which is also confirmed by some document. On the other hand, no one closes the title of master and formerly, I would say, titles, and this is certainly left to every craftsman. This is likely to make the market more competitive. If he appears as a master of the title, he will probably be able to enforce a higher price, but this should be regulated by the market, not by law. I think that the advantages that this law brings to this field of trade are in fact great and I think that some things can be complemented or even improved in further consideration. In our Group of Members, we absolutely believe that this law is suitable for further consideration and we also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u292	Thank you very much. The text is also given by the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u293	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say that I am very pleased with this debate this afternoon. And answer to Mr Petek that I wanted to finally sum up the final word. I am pleased to note that many of you are pleased to see our consideration of your suggestions and, in the light of the climate prevailing in this Chamber, I think that the proposal for a law in this consideration is well accepted. The key question raised in this debate is why compulsory membership, why not voluntary membership. I must say that a very broad survey has been carried out on the ground and that the will of the members has been taken into account in particular. The answer to Mr Petk with specific figures in the survey, which was made between the members of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and at the same time between the regional chambers of commerce, confirmed that 70 % of them agreed to the mandatory membership. Members shall request a representative to hold a dialogue with legislators and other institutions. And their will was taken into account in this bill. As far as the membership is concerned, a minimum amount has been fixed. As regards the number of employees, a maximum amount has been fixed. Since the amount is fixed according to the number of employees, let me serve with some data concerning 2006. The average number of employees at the crafts workshop was 2.2 employees. And only 0.2% of all crafts employed more than 50 employees and between 11 and 50 employees employed 3.9% of crafts. It is said that a very large majority of craft workshops employ up to 10 people who are part of the proposed membership. As for the question or discussion of membership in both chambers. I am aware of the fact that in the past there have been some companies, economic companies of both chambers, trade and economic chambers. I am so not surprised by the fact that some companies receive two notifications, I do not know if they are accounts, but notices about these matters. I don't know if that's true today, but that's more of a question for the Chamber of Commerce or the Chamber of Commerce, but as much as we know. It is pleased to note that the removal of administrative barriers promotes the development of crafts in Slovenia. As we hear and as we know, the contribution of craft workshops, craftsmen, small and medium-sized enterprises in the Slovenian space is an important contribution to our social product. We are aware of the risks that could threaten us if the qualification level were to be zeroed, so the regulation will, if, of course, the law is adopted, as today, certain activities and, in accordance with these activities, the qualification level of employees under this craft law. If I may also mention the name - change of name to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. As we have heard today, some of the trade operators or most of the trade operators are independent entrepreneurs. Just a name, and I'm not talking about the content that every craftsman is probably also an entrepreneur, speaks for the sake that a change of name is appropriate. I do not think that this is the case, fearing Mr Petk, that an additional indent in the first paragraph of Article 40, where the Chamber of Commerce for the Financing of Membership also provides information and professional training, may give professional advice to its members. It is already the task of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to educate professionally. And I am joining the debate of a colleague from the SD Group of Members, who is saying that we must give strong emphasis, which the law itself gives to the professional education of people in these areas. As you yourself know, Mr Friday, you are coming, as you yourself have mentioned, from construction, in our area of lack of people with these skills, there is an increasing number of social skills. That is why we also support in our ministry that there is as much education as possible in this direction, and we believe that this amendment to the law can make a significant contribution to this. So much for a moment on my part. I think there's been a lot of talk today. I believe that the proposal for a law in this consideration will be confirmed and that a follow-up procedure will follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u294	Thank you very much. You've got your word. All the people you've ever asked for it. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Check-in is on. Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian has your word. Each of the discussers has 5 minutes at their disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representative of the Ministry! I was running out of time before, and I thought I'd drop by about this education, about reduced conditions. This seems to me to allow the opening of a trade-business workshop or firm to be extremely important in order to allow a large number of people to self-employment, employment and so on. While we must not forget the importance of education, this is not just a chamber, not just an economy, especially the task of the school system. Also this so-called masterly title seems to me to have slowly regained or already received quite a bit of validity back, as it used to be many years ago, and I think that we are also consumers or users of the services of all these people, all of these craftsmen and entrepreneurs, somehow already understood what the title of master means, and that these are easier to get on the market to get the job that citizens and citizens also benefit more from the services of all these people. In doing so, we must not neglect such a part, but as an initial condition for opening up individual activities it is good to lower the level of this condition and thus enable more self-employment and more employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Friday has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u297	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, we didn't get along. I did not think that this part of Article 40 was already the reason for my criticism, but I am saying that by keeping the mandatory membership here - and this serves to inform and advise entrepreneurs and craftsmen - we have laid the groundwork for extending our activity to the market with other activities. And once we've covered one part of the activity and the chambers of commerce don't have it covered and maybe some other part, we've put these chambers in an unequal position to cover one part with funds already provided and the other part appears as competition for those who don't have it. And here is our question whether this will not prove to be a bad passenger in this law, not Article 40 and Article 40. When I asked about the number of members surveyed, I asked for the first time how many members of the Chamber of Commerce, and I did not hear that. Secondly, how many of these members of the Chamber of Commerce gave their opinion, which, of course, the Chamber of Commerce sought - if you know that. So how many of these members have submitted a survey, what percentage was and what percentage was in order to maintain the mandatory membership. And secondly, the Ministry of Economy carried out a survey and if I have the right data, you got 765 answers, if I remember correctly. I asked about these 765 answers, by what criteria were these respondents invited, and of these 765 responses, 70% were positive. So, this information was yours, but it wasn't answered to what I asked. It doesn't matter, this information can be obtained at a second reading, just enough to record it. But it is another thing when some said that the market would be the one that would purify these activities, that they would remain good, that they would remain the ones that met these market expectations. The problem is that if we lower this educational level for some activities, I did not say for all, which can actually be reduced, and if this is not done selectively, and if this is not properly regulated in the regulation and this regulation, because we do not know what it will bring - because of the fact that the discretionary right of the Government is left behind - it raises concern that some groups and parts of the population will be flattered and that this educational level is unnecessarily reduced. As Mr. Presecnik used to say: therefore the master's test, this is no longer required for what is not necessary. Here the government will have to be very selective to decide where the master's exam is needed. But it is true, and it is necessary to know that the master’s examination was also part of the profits of craftsrooms in order to understand each other. And this has also been lost and, of course, hurts them and I believe that they are not most pleased with this but to judge what is involved; this education is necessary. And, of course, this regulation should be at least today on some basis before us or to another consideration to feel that we know which way it is going. Because if we came from this philosophy to regulate the market, then possibly because of unfair competition, some good people who are organised, who are educated, who have more costs, will fall, because someone with less costs, due to lower education, less knowledge, that is, everything that the market manages over a long period rather than in a short time, will come into a position for the good ones - to be at risk of activity. And tourism is one of those things where I don't think we should be able to achieve this level of education too much, or that it doesn't require the fulfilment that individual establishments in tourism or in hospitality require. And that's what we'd like to make it a little bit clearer. That's actually everything from my point of view. As I said before, I think that in this debate, three hours or I don't know how long it took, there were many more questions, many more questions, much more dilemmas, and that the answer given by the Secretary of State in eight or nine minutes is simply not covering the whole spectrum, and we missed that. I personally miss Minister Viszak, who I do not deny to him and I admit to him that he actively cooperated with craftsmen, craftsmen's chambers, entrepreneurs to be able to flatter them, listened to them, improved them or complied with the measures they proposed. We'd like to hear that. Personally, if you ask me, I would provoke him much more than Mr Jeršič in relation to the questions of the Chamber of Commerce in parallel to the Chamber of Commerce, because it makes no sense that I am imposing this on Mr Jeršič, which I do not ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u299	Thank you for your word, Madam President. If I can start like this, I don't miss Minister Visian, because I think he sent those who know more about this marriage. Because if he was here alone, there could be a problem. Someone said that Article 3 clearly defined what would be a trade and what would not be a trade. I have before me an explanation of the law, an explanation of article 3. I believe everyone here who's signed up for the word, you've read it, I don't want to quote it, because it's gonna take too much time, but let me know what's in here. There are a lot of old blurs in there, and if you allow only the last paragraph: "In the meantime, as for craft activities for which there will be no qualification condition, the trade permit shall be replaced by a decision issued by the Chamber of Commerce." This is something in this sense, as I said in the presentation, that the Chamber of Commerce recruits its members to a new one in favour of the Chamber of Commerce. It's an article that allows it. Something else may be defined in the regulation, but we do not have this regulation, and we are not competent to do so. When you were talking about the survey, I was wondering if the Ministry of Economics sent this survey, I would say either the polls or the questions to all tradesmen in Slovenia, or whether this has imposed this on the regional trade chambers. When this order goes to the regional chambers of commerce and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, then I am not surprised by the result. Because in this case, if you want to finance yourself, you have to have some result and mandatory membership in any case must remain. And when you said that some companies were getting notifications, you said that yourself, Mr Jeršič, the notices, but not the accounts, you said, let me tell you, I will tell you very frankly, and I can also deliver you the paper. Let me know what the Post Office of Slovenia has with the Chamber of Commerce. Give me a link here to establish either a notice or a billboard. Or Ljubljana's dairy? What kind of trade are they dealing with? With the orphans? Please don't paint us like this. And let me know or answer one more question, because you have this opportunity to join the debate, Klima Petek d.o.o. From Maribor - it is a craftsman or it belongs to a segment of the Chamber of Commerce, according to this or according to the framework of its production, depending on the number of employees, you let me know whether it is his jurisdiction to decide whether he will go to the Chamber of Commerce where he will pay 50 euros and will have the effect that he now has on the Government, or whether he will go to the Chamber of Commerce where he will not have to pay anything, and the impact will also have. Is this his subjective decision or is this the decision that the law provides for in any segment? This answer is of serious interest to me. Today, I am no longer given the impression that you will not be able to answer it, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u300	Mr. Zagorac [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u301	By the next reading of this law, however, we could certainly have had this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u302	Can I explain? You know, according to the rules of procedure, when the rest of the time is left, the one who applies has a word. Therefore, in this case, I cannot give the representatives of the Government a word because they have not been notified. Please continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u303	All right, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u304	Please don't ask questions because they can't answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u305	But until the next reading, it seems to me that you can, right? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u306	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u307	In the second reading, can you? As long as they log in. It is better to raise a question in advance and have time to prepare than to get them on my left foot as is usually the case in this Parliament and under this Government. But [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u308	It's up to you whether you listen to me or not. That's yours. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u309	Well, I guess I'd love to hear those answers for the second time. Once again, I wonder - and this may also be rhetorical questions or the question of whether you will take it for granted until the second reading - the trend of this government began with the abolition of mandatory membership in the Chamber of Commerce. According to my information, believe me, they're good, coming from your superior, this trend should continue in the agricultural chamber. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] Why does this trend not continue in the Chamber of Commerce? [[...]] That's one question, too. The surveys were carried out both in the first and in the second and third cases. Everywhere - if you asked those who are members of the Chamber of Commerce, either those who are members of the Chamber of Agriculture or those who are members of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia was the result of the surveys completely or roughly the same. But there they decided to stop - for the first time, the second time you decide to stop [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] And for the third time, you insist on mandatory. [[...]] Why the change in the trend of this government? Three questions, and I expect three answers in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Mr. Boyan Rugelj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Well, this term is interesting -- "quite about the same." These are polls. But I would like to stand in the defence of Minister Vizjak; Minister Vizjak himself was also an instigator of both the company law and the craftsmen law, and due to this specificity of craftsmen, he remained a member of membership at this point. I think the specification is quite different from that of the Chamber of Commerce. So I think that this law is still a good basis, perhaps just so that in the future it will also become an optional membership in the Chamber of Commerce. But at this point, I think that it is right that it remains mandatory also because, as I said before, because of the various ownership relations, these matters would in fact make these matters more difficult, even this law would become much more complicated if we had to solve this now, at this point. And if we want the Chamber of Commerce to remain what it is now, because it has proved successful, I think it would be really unwise to intervene in these matters now, although I believe in the future and I hope that this will happen, as it is in other countries of the European Community, which is also the most democratic. Only then is the Chamber of Commerce - believe me that all members of the Chamber of Commerce are elsewhere, although membership is not compulsory, but the Chamber of Commerce offers so many benefits to its members that it is simply worth being. And that's what's gonna happen to us. Unfortunately, all of this cannot be done at once, and I think that the decision of Minister Visiak was perfectly correct and in place. But I would also like to touch on the proposal I made here. I am very pleased that two members of the opposition are essentially opposed. That means everyone just doesn't have a fig in their pocket. And if the proposal is good, the opposition can also support it. I'd like to explain this one more time. See, from 2000 to 2006, the Chamber of Commerce increased its membership income by about 100%, even if it reduced it by 9% last year, it is still a huge increase, and if we now accurately determine the amount of membership in the law, it is said that it must not be higher or smaller. As I said before, this law allows the Chamber of Commerce to generate part of the income by marketing services. The more difficult counseling - I don't know what else - can sell. However, those basic matters that will be "worked" for craftsmen will remain free of charge or will be covered by membership. This means that, the Chamber of Commerce, could generate more revenue. And to the extent that it generates more revenue, it is possible for the Chamber of Commerce at the Assembly to set a lower tariff. We simply put forward this proposal by the Ministry of Economy, which precisely sets these prices, I have proposed that it should be written that the membership is determined by the Chamber of Commerce at the Assembly, but that table, which sets them, is the highest rate, as far as it can be determined. He can't go through with this. We will also allow that there will be no need to change the law as far as it comes. The Chamber of Commerce will be able to do this on its own, to reduce proportionally as far as it can be shown. It's no deceiving. I think it's some kind of possibility that spreads more. And I believe that Mr Minister will also carefully examine this proposal and perhaps we will discuss it at a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u312	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 24th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Agenda item - Redecision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Protection. At its 20th extraordinary meeting on 29.6.2007, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the National Assembly to re-declare the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Protection prior to the promulgation of the Act. I give the floor to the representative of the State Council for Explanation. Here you go, Mr. Marjan Mauchec.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u313	Thank you for your word, chairman. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! I must say that today it has been quite pleasant for me to listen to this debate of yours for two hours, where in fact all of you, all of the parliamentary groups, have advocated the craftsmen's and craftsmen's initiatives, and have listed quite a number of activities that the Chamber can then carry out. Among other things, education, which is somehow crucial in this proposal for re-decision, because by amending the Law on Private Protection in fact, when the Government assumes the competence of education to a chamber which has actually done its system as you have just spoken. What the membership wanted was done by the chamber, and it lived to that extent. In the State Council and in the Chamber of Private Protection, we are disturbed that, after so long, the Government is actually going 30 years ahead, because, as it is said, European practice has no similar cases except in Lithuania and Montenegro, and I hope that the State of Slovenia is no longer part of such thinking people, but that free entrepreneurial incentives are somehow the law of the market economy. And the case here is that everything goes under the Ministry of the Interior, in the first instance of education, then the award of concessions and supervision itself, and also, most importantly, pricing. Now it was somehow divided into a control level like the Ministry had! And with this new one, it actually falls off. On the other hand, it is also somehow not credible that in Article 12, paragraph 4, the Minister may grant training to someone else. In practice, this means that the Police Academy, which will be responsible for this, will no longer enjoy satisfaction, especially in the sense that it is not quality enough, that it is not flexible, that it is not effective. So it is our opinion to reconsider this. In view of today's atmosphere in the consideration of the Chamber of Commerce, we somehow expect you to respond to this veto, and we expect you to give a positive assessment of this initiative, which I think is European-oriented and would be proud of this National Assembly as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u314	Thank you very much. The request was also addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the working body of the mother, so I ask the Committee president, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u315	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings, presidents, representatives of the Ministry, fellow Members and fellow Members! At its 39th emergency meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the request of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia that the National Assembly decide once again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Protection. The representatives of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia also did not attend the Committee this time, but their explanation is based on the written opinion transmitted by the State Council on 29 June. In its written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that, in a specific case, issues of a substantive nature related to the assessment of the appropriateness of the legislation, which goes beyond the tasks imposed by Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, State Secretary Zvonko Zinraj, presented the Government's written opinion and stressed with regard to public powers that they could be taken into account in avoiding repeated irregularities in their implementation. He further explained that the Ministry is already competent to carry out inspections on the work of private security entities and that the law is further regulated by certain powers of inspectors. He also said that there is no single concept of private security regulation in Europe. Among other things, this has been shown in the comparative review of the bill itself. Most countries retain certain powers in the area of private protection, particularly in the field of licences and business cards. In the debate between the members and members of the Committee, representatives of the Social Democrats Group stressed that, in their view, the law constitutes an important intervention in the activity and organisation of private protection, since protection of people and property constitutes an extremely important economic activity, which is in many cases a prerequisite for the smooth functioning of other business entities. In the said parliamentary group, they stressed that they would not back up the law and then explain why they did not. Following the discussion, the representative of the Private Protection Chamber also reiterated his views and said that the law had not previously been aligned with the competent institutions. Following the discussion, the Committee decided on the following decision: The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that, in re-decision on the law in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Act amending and supplementing the law on private protection should be adopted. A decision shall be adopted in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and the rules of procedure shall require the majority of the members of the Committee, which have not been reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u316	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proposal for a bill to explain the opinion. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Zinraj Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u317	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Until the decision of the State Council, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken a position in which there are detailed reasons why we do not agree with the indications cited by the State Council. The main observation of the State Council was the withdrawal of the powers of the Private Protection Chamber in the field of training. And here, somehow, we can see that it's the core of the problem. This finding has been removed in the legislative procedure with the amendments, so that the possibility of a public tender is to grant public training authority to those entities which comply with the law with certain conditions. This is referred to in Article 8, paragraph 4, of the proposal. The reasons for the withdrawal of public power were widely and repeatedly explained in the debates during the procedure for the adoption of this law. The withdrawal of public powers to the Chamber is based, inter alia, on the irregularities identified in the exercise of public powers identified by the Ministry in the complaints of individual companies and in the two controls carried out in 2006 and 2007. The Council of State also cited in its explanation the alleged violation of certain constitutional principles, namely the four: free economic initiative - Article 74; Article 42 - freedom of association; Article 22 - equal protection of rights; and freedom of education and education, which is covered by Article 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. If you don't mind, I'll go through all four articles. The evidence of a violation of Article 74 of the Constitution is not based on our assessment, since the proposed amendments do not constitute an infringement of a free economic initiative, but merely remove the privileges that the current private protection law provides for the Chamber of Private Protection of the Republic of Slovenia, stressing that the Chamber is not an economic operator, but a legal person of public law who has been granted public powers, but not for the purpose of carrying out an economic activity. Next, freedom of association. The Constitutional Court has already repeatedly ruled on freedom of assembly and association, but every time it has been made clear that the compulsory membership of the Chambers violates constitutional law. In that case, however, it is a matter of changing compulsory membership into voluntary membership, which means the exercise of constitutional rights rather than a violation - according to the Government. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law do not violate Article 22 of the Constitution, as is evident. This defines equal protection of rights, since by eliminating privileges, as I mentioned earlier, the Chambers are therefore not in violation of the right to equality, but are actually exercising this right. Under the same conditions, the Chamber or other, the Association of Performers will be able to run on the call for the organisation and implementation of security training, which is significantly different from that mentioned here by the representative of the State Council, namely education. Education is a completely different category. The right to education means that education must be accessible to all under equal conditions. The proposed amendments to the law do not affect this area in any way, as they only regulate the field of training, which does not constitute formal education. The Government therefore proposes to the National Assembly to enact the law in the event of a re-decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u318	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word on behalf of the Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u319	Vice-President, distinguished representative of the Government, representative of the Council of State, distinguished colleague and colleague! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members of Parliament, the Association of Zaras, we will not support the law that we are re-declaring today. At the same time, we are also grateful to the Council of State for giving us all the opportunity to debate and vote on this law once again. With these comments, which were already put forward at the last meeting of the Law on Mark 12 and some other articles, something has already been said, something else will be said in these presentations, but I would point out something else. I see this law in a broader context, in which I observe the activity of this government, changing the situation between the state, in particular its executive power, economy and civil society. Every law we have at our disposal is actually moving the burden or from civil society, professional organisations or economies to the benefit of the greater executive power of the country. This is a trend that happens both in the judiciary and in the prosecutions, if you want, even to the judiciary, including education, in a variety of things, almost none - one of them was the law on electronic communications, too. All this is happening in order to reduce the powers, autonomous decision-making, the own logic of individual subsystems in favour of the country's comprehensive Behemonic power. And that's very typical of this marriage. He hits this marriage chamber right where it's most important. And that's in training. Government representatives speak no intervention in education, education is all the same, all equally accessible, it is ordinary training. Training is, of course, also a category that allows people who want to engage in a private activity of private protection to acquire those specific knowledge, skills, skills that enable them to obtain a license for this activity, which must be regulated, and that is exactly what is being taken away from them. They are taken into account in the way this invitation to tender exists, but I would like to point out that the Government or the Ministry is preparing and implementing the programmes. This is the point of this document - to ensure conditions and so on. If these indents were not so formed, I might even believe that there will be an objective call somewhere where the best will be found and will be the best chosen and so on. No! No! Here, things are already so predetermined that we know what the call will be and that we advise that this call should not be published because they will spend money free of charge. That's not how it works. Every other concept of this country, this society, that it's all being dragged to the country. While previous governments have repeatedly stressed, with greater or less success, even with mistakes they have tried to gradually unload the country, leave the spheres to regulate their own rules and try to properly control them - they have not always succeeded, there is no such dilemma. Everything that was once, I would say, pushed back into the sphere of autonomous organization, is now dragging back as far as it can and can. This law cannot be supported only because of the chamber itself, but we must not support it because we must not insist on this trend, because we must do our utmost to reverse this trend, to stop this trend, to stop this pumping of the whole society, to draw on the economy, to draw on autonomous spheres and to stop. That is why we will vote in our parliamentary group, as for the first time, against the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u321	Dear President! Your Honors are here! Veto, I don't think there have been as many of them as this government has with its proposals for the law. But "let's try" to justify why all the opposition parties, I hope, will fully support this veto and possibly some other member of the coalition. Firstly, within the framework of the European Union, those institutions that each Government has been following blindly in the Republic of Slovenia, no matter what the result of the individual proposal proposed by the European Union for this country, do not require us to regulate or regulate this area in any way. Even more, the European association in this area has a completely different or different position on the proposal of the law, as demonstrated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So this argument, that whatever the European Union requires of us, is immediately gone. Secondly, in their defense of the law in the second, third, first reading, the government said that everyone was invited to participate in the drafting of the law. But the invitation and consideration of the profession is something else. You really invited them - but you took them into account at no time. It seems to me that we discussed another law yesterday, I think, that it was called "medical treatment," where there was a medical chamber -- I see a couple of MPs who advocated it -- the largest professional body. Here the Chamber of Private Protection means nothing to you, it's not a professional body, I believe it's not because you're going to vote differently. But at the healing chamber, this chamber was "uh, ah, in general" as far as the profession is concerned. All those who advocated it, even with a smile on your face, look at the computer and read what you're doing. But why is that, I'll say, distinction, why such a difference - there was a profession and there wasn't? Don't be red in the face! But you ignored this profession and did not say that the law is in any way coordinated, the law is out of harmony, the law is completely out of line. And the veto can also be followed by a referendum. Is that the purpose of the proposal or the adoption of the law? Let the laws be lifelike. And if you will allow me to focus a little further on the content of the law, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and vehemently rejected all the amendments proposed by the opposition, because it is the smartest, but I have already proved to you that you are not. He's a professional once, he's not. You're already divorcing here, and you're not the smartest. The first thing that bothers me very much about the bill itself is the assessment of the financial implications. The law, if you read it - which you have read, and who not only will vote, but you will actually say something - says that "calculation has not yet been done" as far as this will mean for the state budget and, among other things, you say that there will be no financial consequences. Interesting! A very interesting fact that I can afford, I believe, is just this government and no one else. Furthermore, if I only touch the private security chambers, it is said that the professions that you value most in this Government, both in the previous law and in the medical law. Do you know what this profession says? This profession states that this law is a monopoly of the state. Do you know in what way? Firstly, with regard to the exclusive proposal of all professional profiles, professional standards and catalogues in the field of private security activities under the responsibility of the MNP. It exclusively shapes and prescribes all compulsory training programmes - including that of the MNZ. Exclusively sets prices for the implementation of all compulsory training programmes - including that of the MNZ. But I won't read it to you. We all got the text I started reading. I believe you read it and didn't throw it in the basket. If it's not a monopoly, then tell me what a monopoly is in this country. It's a monopoly. And, representative of the government, let me know or answer just one question. The original legal competence of training in the private protection system shall be conferred on the police or the Ministry of the Interior. You're gonna open Tacen, I understand, I get that, but it's a monopoly. You allow one institution by law, you allow the other institutions, that's a significant difference. And by law, you give a monopoly to the police to do it. Otherwise, you're letting someone else do it, but if they meet the criteria they set, who will? - The Ministry of the Interior. That's the monopoly I'm talking about. And I fear, given the practice of this government so far, that this will be fulfilled by a company from Maribor: whether it will equip the air-conditioning premises or whether it will sell cars for this institution, I don't know, I'm just guessing, based on the current practice of this government. And that's why I'm skeptical. That's why I don't believe it when you say, "We give other people a chance." You've been giving it so far. But if you're real and you look at yourself, you'll see that there are no others, they're just yours, your soul, your heart and your conviction, which is sad. And that's a monopoly. And in this you are no different from the former government, in this you are the same, which is sad, even though you promised to be different, but you are not. Maybe one more comment, and I'll go back to the financial implications. If there is no exclusive or legal authority, not exclusive - the law would easily define two institutes that could carry out education in addition to the MNZ, which is totally without prejudice to me, someone else. The one who has done it so far, but you have not done it, and that means breaking this - in your opinion, in the last two days of the debate in this National Assembly - the most professional institute, this is the Chamber. But no! You shut it down, you put it on the side track, I'll be able to report it if it meets the MNZ criteria or if I can express it a little better to the extent that it meets the requirements of this government. And believe me, unless you change the leadership of this chamber, it will never meet your criteria. In this respect, in the Slovenian National Party, we absolutely oppose the adoption of this law and we will gladly support the veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. The Director, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u323	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Representative of the Government, colleague and colleague! At the first position of the Group of Members on this law, the Group expressed a number of concerns, which it hoped at the time, would not fail in the procedure for the adoption of the law. Thus, with the help of unacceptable legal provisions for us, this law has become the one that has kept private protection in the police subsystem similar to the law on detective activity or, say, the Law on municipal registrarship and the like. Of course, the training of security personnel or security personnel under this law is subordinated to a free assessment of the allocation by a minister who is not necessarily qualified in this direction and will depend entirely on him who will be entrusted with this task. However, because others will make other arguments, I would like to express my surprise at how empty the arguments are about the irregularities that are to be identified in the area of private protection so far. Rather, these irregularities should be the basis for a change in the law in the direction it is offered today. And here they say that there were seven violations in the field of physical force, not much of 77 when it was necessary to do so in order to keep the maggots from escaping. Even less is it useful for me to change the law when it is said that security guards have detained the perpetrators as many as 671 times until the arrival of the police. Yeah, what are they supposed to let go of justice if they've been caught in a crime against the property or property of our citizens? There was nowhere for the police to do this on their own at the time, and it was for the security forces who were doing this for us and for our group of noble assets protection activities and the benefits of our citizens. Even worse, it is an excuse to amend the existing rules in finding that this area is not uniformly regulated in Europe. That is true, but the arrangement now being offered by the Ministry is one of the worst and will not receive our support. Unfortunately, one strong argument is also the fact that this law did not receive support even on the labour market. With regret that we are experiencing such a large number of vetoes in this government coalition, it is only evidence that we are often under-hearing comments in the process of adopting laws that would reduce this incidence of vetoes as well as the incidence of constitutional provisions repealing laws or their articles, which is not an honour to a coalition that is supposed to be successful. We are part of this coalition, but we want to be so serious in the matter that we cannot support every single thing if we think and if there are - and if there are in this case for sure - firm arguments that there should be some respect, but there is no law and in this sense our votes will not be obtained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitrij Kovacic has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u325	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the Council of State, representatives of the Ministry! The number of vetoes voted on the State Council is no proof of whether any law against which veto has been voted is good or bad. This is the ratio of forces in the State Council. If the relationship were different, the number of vetoes voted would also be different. It is similar with the request for a referendum, which is legitimate and which can always be achieved by a narrow group of people. But, of course, the goal that this group then wants to achieve at the referendum is very questionable. Practice has shown that the result was once the same, once different. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already supported the proposed law at the stage of the first reading of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Protection by making some comments in the expectation that the individual articles to which the comments relate will be corrected or amended in the next reading. The comments made referred to the completion and training of private security entities. In our view, it was not right that such training of security personnel could be carried out exclusively by the Ministry of the Interior through its educational institution - the Police Academy. We have advocated an open training system whereby such training or training in the field of security may be provided by anyone who is professionally qualified to do so and meets other necessary conditions. It was not acceptable for us to replace one monopolies in the field of training with another monopoly, thus replacing the Police Academy within the Ministry of the Interior as a training provider of the Private Protection Chamber. Our comments were taken into account at the time of the first examination of the law until the adoption of the law, and the National Assembly adopted at its previous meeting the text of a law allowing the completion or training of all professionally qualified entities, including the Chamber of State, so that on this legal basis and after the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in view of its supervisory role, will be able to assess the competence and fulfilment of the conditions, all these interested operators will be able to carry out training on this basis. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party therefore supported the amended text of the law and considered that the solutions offered by the law were appropriate. That is why we today do not agree with the reasons for the State Council’s veto vote on this law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that private protection is in all emerging forms from the protection of persons, property, shipments, the management of the security control centre, until the planning and implementation of security systems, an economic activity that cannot be carried out completely. This is a specific activity that cannot be completely left to self-regulation, but the State has to lay down by law the conditions under which economic operators can carry out this activity and to all those who meet the conditions laid down specifically, also grant a licence on the basis of which they may also carry out the protection activity. The control of the State over the protection activity must be in the function of the best possible quality implementation of this activity so that the operators are professionally qualified, that the protection is carried out in accordance with the rules and if the individual operator does not comply with the prescribed conditions or if it violates those conditions and regulations in this field, the State may also withdraw the licence from it. The completion and training of personnel or individual private security providers should be based on a uniform concept of quality training of security-providing entities. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party believe that the proposed law provides quality training as well as an appropriate assessment or verification of the knowledge acquired by individual entities on the basis of such training. We believe that the experience of implementing the law after it enters into force will be positive and will justify the adoption of the law. However, if, at the time of future validity, individual solutions are still weak and some things need to be completed or completed, appropriate amendments or amendments to the law can always be prepared and adopted. This would still be better than rejecting the law today, thus remaining on the existing provisions of the law, which are not appropriate, and would return to the starting point, where we have long established that there is still a law in force today that needs to be corrected, adjusted to the requirements of today's time and private protection, which is otherwise an economic activity, to be regulated by being subject to effective control by the State over it. As it is said, the Slovenian Democratic Parties' Members are also in favour of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Protection today, as well as at the previous meeting, when we have decided on it, we support it, and we oppose the veto of the Council of State, so we will vote again in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u327	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representative of the State Council, Ministry of the Interior. As we objected to the adoption of the law in the ordinary procedure in the Social Democrats' Group, we will also oppose the adoption of the law after the veto of the State Council. The veto of the Council of State drew attention to those essential issues that we had warned the Ministry and the ruling coalition at the time of the adoption of the law. He drew attention to the fact that this law was adopted without serious arguments about its need, pointing out that the adoption of the proposed law would make the economic activity of private protection very important in many ways subject to State regulation in contravention of the largely regulated private protection system in the European Union. He pointed out that not the monopoly of the Chamber would be reinstated, but the monopoly of the State, the Ministry of the Interior and the Police Academy within it for education and training of security workers, and pointed out that there are no valid reasons for all these radical changes in legislation. We estimate that these warnings from the Council of State are justified and agree with the fact that it is beneficial that the Council of State has given us a chance to reconsider. In this respect, the Council of State is in a better position than the National Assembly many times, and when we talk about the National Assembly, I am thinking mainly of a ruling coalition which, at least in an important part, although this does not apply to the smallest party to the DeSUS coalition, must be in line with the government's position, whether they have their own logic or not. The State Council is not subordinate to the government, and in this is its advantage. And I agree that the mere fact of veto, of course, does not yet mean that it is right, but in addition to veto, it has proved that the ruling coalition is not right in many areas, nor is it because its important decisions were annulled by the Constitutional Court, even when it was vetoed or on a proposal for a constitutional assessment prepared in the State Council. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are still convinced that the National Assembly should follow the clear warning of the Institute of Public Administration that the law, as proposed, represents solutions that are contrary to the official policy of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union, whereby, to the extent possible, the country should withdraw from the economy, as it represents more or less the support of an activity that has so far been a very economic activity. That the content is contrary to the constitutional regulation in force, since it takes a free initiative to the economy and interferes with the basic point of view that the Republic of Slovenia is a rule of law. By proposing the acquisition and training of security personnel from the Private Protection Chamber at the Police Academy within the Ministry of the Interior, one of the most important functions of the Chamber is to train and educate, which is essential for the functioning of private protection carried out by entrepreneurs, and at the same time a condition for the independence and independence of this activity, but not for the direct dependence of this activity on the State and the police. We have pointed out these problems in the course of the whole process and have proposed that, in view of the many professional comments that have been made, a public presentation of the opinions should also be made, which the coalition rejected on a proposal from the Government. We have warned that there will be solutions that will be contrary to the concept. This has even been confirmed by some coalition Members, and today they claim that the solutions adopted in Article 12 that have indeed been slightly changed since the original concept have been an essential intervention in the regulation. If Members and Members of the three largest coalition parties are prepared to read what is written in Article 12, they will see that there is still a fully state monopoly, since, as has already been said today, with Article 12 of the State, the Ministry of the Interior, it retains all fundamental functions in this area. It lays down professional standards, establishes educational programmes, determines who will educate, supervises the complex course of education, sets financial resources, establishes an institution that will do so, and has the right to decide that education and training can be entrusted to someone else - but if so decided and if so decided by him, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, it is important and necessary. And for that reason, without any serious arguments, on the basis of warnings given even by the Institute of Public Administration and proposed not to do so. In previous discussions, I have said that it is precisely in order to obtain an argument as to where the weaknesses so far have been, that the law must remove the rights and autonomy of the private protection sector, and that the Ministry should tell us where these weaknesses have been and what has been happening. They gave us reports, they didn't give us answers, because it must have been a shame that all the answers given by the Chamber of Private Protection to the Ministry were such that they responded to those insignificant weaknesses that really happened, that they were happening in every business, and that they were all answered in time, as they were set out to do. If all other institutions were to address the weaknesses as they had been remedied under the Ministry's inspection of the private security chamber, then there would be no problems that we have and would not reasonably expect that public funds were being misused and that it would allow for adoption on the basis of a much more pronounced operation, illegal or unrecognizable, of certain important state institutions, such as the pension and disability insurance fund, which decided on the sale of shares in Mercator. I would therefore like to point out that there are virtually no valid reasons why we could change the opinions that we had in the course of the debate in this law and that, therefore, the Group of Social Democrats will also vote against the law on the basis of the Council of State. Given the assurances given to us by MEPs and DeSUS Members and the fact that the remaining part of the three largest coalition parties had to adapt even the vote to their presence, there is only hope that there will be no one who would vote to adopt such a bad law in addition to the 45 members of the three largest coalition parties. Talking about adopting a bad marriage and later correcting it is certainly unacceptable. There's no reason you should be getting married overnight. It would be much better to reject the law and reevaluate the weaknesses of its present content and where it needs to be corrected rather than radically modified. Besides, don't blame us and understand that we don't believe you, the great promises of law reform, in advance and blindly. You have also promised in the adoption of this law that you will support amendments that will ensure competition in the provision of education, completion, and that you have done so only in such a way that the Ministry has given itself the right to provide education and training to someone other than its police academy with good will and whenever it wishes. This is not equal competition and free competition, but a monopoly that the ministry gives to one of its institutions in advance and, in all other things, a big question. Therefore, there are no additional reasons to support the law since its adoption, so we will vote against its approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u329	Mr Vice-President, representatives of the Ministry! In fact, there is nothing new about this law, the situation there since the end of April, when we first talked about this topic, has changed absolutely nothing, at least in the grave or at the right substantive level. The proposed amendments to the Law on Private Protection still implement the concept that private protection will become a kind of police subsystem in our country, so that everything that goes wrong will be the responsibility of those who carry out the protection, but those who are supposed to take care that this is arranged will not. Such a concept can be considered non-European; in Europe, I think that two countries have such a concept and both bear the European Union's demand to change it; it is Lithuania and Belgium. Lithuania, which has almost exactly the same type, and Belgium, which has different types and confusion. The proposal or this law provides that the police will carry out the full training of security personnel and all procedures for obtaining national qualifications, otherwise, now with some possibility of allowing this to anyone else, it is said to be granted. I don't know how much it's going to cost for others to come to this, but I'm sure it's possible in that calculation that hasn't been done yet. The second thing that matters in this law is what we have already said in the preceding item of the agenda. In view of how different chambers are treated in our government's proposals: once they are all-powerful and able to do everything and completely everything and even have to be compulsory, secondly they are worthless and must be stopped or forced into some self-absorbing. It is a very unintentional treatment of the chambers or, of course, that the government allows itself in this way, however, to provide a tool for individual segments of the population, individual states of power in, say, more obedient behavior. In general, all that the State Council has stated is true and, therefore, this time in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will not support this law, but, of course, we will open something else that has been shown since April. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u331	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greeting again on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. The expected debate on the law or amendments to the law on private protection is taking place in a very similar way, almost identical to that of previous meetings of the National Assembly, as well as at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. In the New Slovenia Group, we have been particularly supportive of the basic purpose of the law since the beginning; that is to say, to remedy the shortcomings in private protection, especially since some of the unloving events in this area have occurred in the recent past, which have caused us all to be concerned together. In the first reading, the discussion took place mainly as it is today around the provider of the training of security personnel and the new organisation of the Private Protection Chamber. In the New Slovenia Group, we have already expressed doubts in our previous debates that it would be reasonable to simply transfer the competences of education and training from the Private Protection Chamber to the Ministry of the Interior, but at the examination of the proposal of the law on the home labour body, this would be eliminated by an amendment which provides for a public competition to choose the tasks of training and the completion of security personnel. The bill or law provides that operators will be selected on the basis of an invitation to tender if they meet the legal conditions laid down for this purpose, which, on the one hand, will constitute transparency of the election, on the other hand, due to the conditions laid down, as well as to the quality of such education or training, which is of particular importance. In this way, we believe that it has responded appropriately both to our warnings and to the warnings and opinions and to the views of the Private Protection Chamber, as well as other interested groups. We reject the obvious fact that the bill itself and the proposed amendments were not sufficiently widely discussed; it was, however, an individual interested institution from the Private Protection Chamber to the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia that provided us with their views and, as I know, that the individual representatives of these institutions also held discussions on individual parliamentary groups, i.e. with all those who were interested. It is true, however, that the Private Protection Chamber has, from the very beginning, insisted on maintaining the exclusive competence of education or training. On the other hand, if we look at the other hand, the public tender will remove the existing monopolies of the Chamber, which, like others, will apply under certain conditions, on the basis of the invitation to tender for the award of a public authorisation. Thus, the evidence of taking a free initiative for the economy and the establishment of a state-based repressive activity is neither sustainable nor difficult to sustain. If the Chamber offers a sufficiently quality and varied programme that will respond to the needs of businesses, and if it will take care of the development of the profession and supplementary education, we also see no reason why this Chamber should not arise in the future, perhaps this is a lack of a survey that we expected, about what the members of the Chambers feel about the private security chamber itself, as we have received the survey presented at some of the other chambers, including at the chamber that we discussed at the previous point. And even in the possibility of a parallel chamber being established, we see no harmful reason, no harm or harm in our parliamentary group, as healthy competition usually leads to better results. In the New Slovenia Group, we therefore see no reason not to support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Protection once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u332	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u333	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honourable representative of the ministries, representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! Despite the 2003 Private Protection Act in force, there was a need to update certain provisions that would be more systematic and qualitative in the area of private protection. Private protection, according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group, is a sensitive activity, a legal provision which many have misinterpreted and otherwise from others. In our view, the new law removes some confusion and irregularities and the possibility of ambiguity for all involved, both users and providers of these services. The proposed law of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also considers that we need a uniform concept of quality complementarity and training for all security providers. In the Republic of Slovenia, various forms of protection are offered to various companies, as well as independent entrepreneurs, which was before the law in the hands and powers of the police. In our view, this is good as it prevents the monopoly of one entity in this area from harming others. However, the police academy would still be the one to take over the task of private protection training by law. The costs of training and completing security personnel shall be borne by a private security company or an individual, and only those entities that fulfil all the conditions laid down in the law may carry out that activity. We believe that it is good that the law lays down precisely the conditions for obtaining a licence for different forms of protection, the conditions for withdrawing a business card and, in particular, the conditions for inspection of the implementation of the law itself. This includes a guardian in the law who serves to ensure compliance with its provisions. With more precise provisions on such important topics, we can avoid misinterpretation or even worse, for one reason or another, being abused, as has been the case in individual cases in the implementation of the applicable law so far. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we have tabled amendments to some of the articles of the law, which in our view would further improve and more regulate the law, but which have not been adopted. I will not go to the debate on the substantive aspects of individual amendments, but even less to the debate about why these amendments were not supported. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the activity of private protection needs to be regulated more systematically and more precisely by a law that will regulate this area better than the law in force so far. Despite some of the shortcomings of the law, we believe that the law reduces the possibilities for different interpretations of its provisions and ensures better regulation of the area of private protection as well as its implementation in practice. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group have decided to re-support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u334	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Honorable assembly, distinguished representative of the Government, distinguished representative of the Council of State! I do not find any real new arguments for support in this National Assembly to be adopted by the novels, the arguments that have already been put forward in the debates both at the home labour body and at the National Assembly, but also today in the presentation of the positions. However, when I read the State Council's arguments in explanation of the request for re-voting on this novel, and in particular the arguments made in writing by the Chamber, I am trying to understand them and, at least in part, in no way at all, to take them into account when upgrading this adopted novel. And if I am looking for a central point of opposition and arguments from the debates on the amendments tabled so far, I always come to see that the central point of the challenge is both the Council of State, the Chambers and the opposition, somehow eliciting the desire not to withdraw public powers from the Chamber of Private Protection. In short, to maintain these public powers and to preserve the monopoly of this Chamber. And if I'm a little more critical, I feel like there's always a lot of interesting lobbying in the background. I appreciate and realize that the Private Protection Chamber has so far carried out a pioneering work in this area to organise this activity in the Republic of Slovenia, training security officers. And I will not evaluate her concrete work, because I have not followed this work, nor have I ever needed private protection, nor have I known the criteria for evaluation. However, I am also familiar with some private security affairs that we do not need to mention because we know them. And I know the explanation for these changes to the law that the individual provisions are quite loose, unclear, which also results in the vague application of these provisions. Every time we speak and adopt new laws, I weigh what has happened so far and what we are upgrading with the new proposal, we are changing, supplementing. The same applies to this novel. We need to ask ourselves what is the current situation: or a law such as this is good, is it flawed? We need to be honest and honest about this. And if I go to what the situation is, in my view, there is one chamber itself which has a public mandate, it has a monopoly on these powers and on the content of the tasks entrusted to me, and that really bothers me. Monopoly - always and always against some monopoly. The monopoly implies that it sets itself quality criteria, otherwise formally confirmed by the Ministry, but it prepares them. She's the only one who educates security. She's the one who's training those guards. Monopoly sets prices for its services and also controls itself with regard to the quality of the services provided. That's the problem with monopoly. It's a mandatory membership. She's setting the height of the membership fee. There is no external supervisor to control the quality of its implementation and so on, not to mention. And what does the new novels we adopted at the previous meeting of the National Assembly bring? It was damaged. In particular, the law addressed shortcomings that had been demonstrated in practice. The powers of these public powers have been assumed by the Ministry of the Interior, where the concept of education for police, municipal officials and now security personnel is uniform. This academy has mainly staff, trained training staff, has spatial opportunities and equipment. It'll be cheaper to train. A public tender and a public mandate will identify different entities that will have to meet all the conditions to be able to carry out such education. There will be no more mandatory membership in the Chamber, and so on. And here's my logic. When I set out what it has been and what we have gained by adopting this new novel, which I hope we will also support in the re-voting. And the problem is that some, the opposition, the chamber - want to maintain these public powers and their monopoly. And here we have to ask ourselves whether he meets all the quality requirements? Is she getting a lot of quality training? Does it have spatial capabilities, equipment? That's something to look at. And the doors are still open so that she can also train if she meets all those required criteria. Therefore, I believe that private security is a sensitive economic activity and therefore it is necessary to establish a quality system of professional completion and training and, above all, also after practical checks and exclusion, I would say, bad points and issues to upgrade and ensure a higher level of quality of security services. And if they're even cheaper, that's better. This novel, which we adopted at the previous meeting, I think, is logical - because it has also been said that we have no logic - it is better in my logic, it upgrades the law so far and I think the results will be better. That's why I'm going to back her up again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u336	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u337	Thank you very much. That was a little fast. So, I will back the law or amendments and amendments to the law. Why? While it is true that the Council of State, with a veto on us Members, has given us another opportunity to think about it, and I have done so. I looked around at the way we came to such a text of the law. We had a bunch of coordinations, a bunch of meetings with the providers of this protection, with the representatives of the Chamber and the key, which proved to be the most open, most controversial, was this training, which has been defined so far by the law in the Chamber. This means that the Chamber had a monopoly on this area, a monopoly established by law. This means that such a monopoly can only be taken away by law. And every monopoly, any one, I don't think is good because it doesn't guarantee competition because it doesn't guarantee better quality, because it closes a circle because those within this monopoly simply don't force them to do better, better quality, more competitive. The problem with this chamber is that there was another monopoly within this monopoly that I mentioned. It is said that some companies, larger companies dealing with private security, via levers, could easily get in a position to decisively influence all decisions within this Chamber. This has further reduced competition in this area, this has resulted in those smaller companies that could potentially be or could be good, but have simply not come into such a position as to develop normally. That's why, I think, logically, at the starting point, this idea of this monopoly being somehow removed is supported. The original solution, which we also had comments on within our parliamentary group, is that, to be perfectly frank, the law actually replaced one monopoly with another. So the chamber is replaced by a police academy. We have seen this as a lack of these changes, and this has also been dealt with by representatives of these companies that are carrying out this personal protection, and we have then removed this with amendments. This means that we are no longer talking about a monopoly, we are talking about a transitional period during which the Police Academy will carry out this training, but for a longer period this training is actually open; open to all participants, including the existing chamber or any other contractor, who will have to meet certain conditions. Look, this private security is, of course, an economic activity. Of course. And in our parliamentary group, and personally, I support a free economic initiative, but the activity of private protection is a very sensitive area. We run very quickly here on various interests. One is, I don't know, the economic, economic interests of some entities that carry out this activity, and the other is human rights, personal freedoms, etc. That is why we cannot leave this area completely without some regulation. It has to be arranged in some way. I think that this law, as it is, in this area also regulates in some way. In this respect, it allows, on the one hand, a free economic initiative, organisation, activity, integration, development and, on the other hand, it also provides certain control over this area by means of these provisions in order to avoid mistakes that have already occurred in the past in this area. That is why I will once again support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u338	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u339	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! How interesting these words sound today and how interesting it is to compare those words with yesterday’s discussion. Can I understand, fellow coalition members, that the health field is not an area that is sensitive to you? You are talking about a system of protection, private protection, that this field needs to be regulated because it is a sensitive, difficult area, while the health field is being abandoned, and we tried to prove it to you in a few hours yesterday and today we can listen to a completely diametric presentation. Yesterday you offered us an economic activity in the field of medicine, today we have an economic activity to deal with, and this government in the same field with the same arguments is fully diametrically advocating solutions that should be resolved systematically on the same basis. And of course here we wonder what this government is doing. The arguments are adapted to the daily, current situation. And when we listen to these warnings, again these warnings given by the State Council, because the deaf were already at our first reading, through the second reading and further adoption of this law. And I would really like to warn you, speaking of the fact that the withdrawal of powers to the Chamber is justified on the basis of the irregularities found. I went to read again the texts of the law you filed on 22.3.2007: Assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law. I would ask the proposer if, in the context of this text, he could justify what he is saying today. But the idea was completely different, and once again, at the warning of the opposition, you're waving something that can't be covered! You can bluff us again here, but you can't bluff the Slovenian public to change some regime that we're warning you that you should publicly, clearly and transparently tell why you're changing this because you've given - so, the state has given public authority to regulate some public service to someone. And today you're saying, "monopoly." What did we do yesterday? We gave a monopoly yesterday! But since we said, let's give this sector to the Ministry first - no! And why wasn't he? Because he doesn't master the field! Yesterday the Ministry of Health did not take over because it did not master the field, let us give it to the chamber, let them suffer and if they do not do so - here is the guilty one! This field works. There could be some flaws. And of course I agree with you when you talk about the need for a supplement in order to prevent different interpretations - I fully agree with this and, of course, practice shows some shortcomings. But, the reason to complement is because you are then warned by those with whom you have failed to harmonise the texts of the law, and these warnings fall resoundingly into the Slovenian public, of course then you masseuse, masseuse, supplement, but of course you insist on the decisions you have already made in the beginning. And I agree with those who say, "Yes, it's not the problem of Article 12 that makes it possible." But will you do it? And the warnings went this way so you wouldn't do it. And is it logical to regulate the economic field in this way? And is it normal for the State itself to determine the extent, type of activity, to perform it exclusively under the conditions prescribed by itself and then to monitor itself? What's the logic here? Then, in the field of health, let us remove the medical room and take over everything in our own hands. And the different vats for regulating economic activities in a completely diametric way? And today we are talking not only about regulating this area, but about the systemic measures of this government, regulating the social relations that we want to regulate with public powers for public good. And this conflict, which is now taking place here, is actually talking about very unconstant interventions to regulate social relations with the Government's actions. Therefore, it makes sense, very sense for you to imagine and reasonably try to follow the proposals of the State Council's warnings, you are not ours to warn you that you are arbitrarily changing a field that you should, which is in the public interest and for which you should precisely define the reasons for changing it. And do not have such different vats when regulating social relationships that are sensitive! I agree with this that it is a sensitive relationship and if you come with any change, then be consistent with the reasons and goals from start to finish. And when you speak of advocating that compulsory membership in this Chamber should no longer be and break with this monopoly, of course we ask you whether this does not apply to other areas. And if the only argument is that this needs to be broken and taken into their own hands, then this law will not achieve that effect, which is to ensure security and private quality protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavel Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u341	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It has been said that the coalition MPs will support this law because it works better because it eliminates the monopoly and so on because it represents some progress compared to what we have today. Of course, if we say that we have come "from the rain under the rain" that this is for the better, we can accept such an interpretation, and in the common language it is called for the worse. First, it must be said that this chamber, its representatives, and also, if I understand correctly, the whole opposition does not defend the monopolistic position of one chamber itself. If we have received this document, which this Chamber has sent to all of us and to you, then I write and quote: "Let us stress that the Chamber itself has proposed that by amending the law it be transformed into a chamber with voluntary membership and that the implementation of professional training and procedures for obtaining national professional qualifications be opened to all organisations meeting the prescribed conditions." That's what the chamber itself suggested. Contrary to this proposal, the legal amendment is already set in the wrong direction. Instead of clearly separating the private security activity as an economic activity from the police, this is a state-based repressive activity, these two unite. And here's the argument that I keep repeating. This Chamber will lose its professional credibility of private protection at a time when clients who will hire this private security will also perceive it as a secret police activity and private security guards as covert occasional or permanent police associates. This is the end of this activity. If the police have something to do with these entities, clients, to come, to say, behaves, closes, arrests - I don't know what to do, inquires - but this activity of the Chamber can't be connected in any way and can't be connected! Article 12 is written extremely succinctly, if you read it very well, you will see that, under these conditions given in Article 12, private education on the basis of a call can't actually be or can't always be "pulled" again. This activity of private protection, as was said, interferes with human rights and freedoms. Therefore, regulated activities must be carried out, and therefore the people who do so must have licences, companies that do so must be cartified and so on; therefore, education must be clear and transparent, errors must be seen, recognized, identified in and outside the Chamber. And this is not regulated by this law and is not done as it should be. That is why I believe that this is an improvement 'from the rain under the rain', but not any improvement, and I reiterate that for such a proposal I am. And my fellow Members and colleagues will not be able to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u342	Thank you very much. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u343	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I'm going to start with, "Silence is sometimes gold." And that's what this government could learn. Sometimes it's better to tell someone to just vote and not defend what the government wants. What am I trying to say? Private protection is part of an economic activity, as confirmed by government Members. In the preceding marriage, we spoke of a Chamber of Commerce that had a mandatory membership. Now we're talking about a private security room that we'll destroy her monopoly if she has a mandatory membership. I mean, once you decide what you're going to defend and what you're going to suggest, that's the first thing. Second thing. The current law is supposed to give a monopoly to the Chamber. Amendments to the law, as you suggest, should give the police a monopoly. What we've done - nothing! God does not allow him to use any stalwart expression to whom we have given, by supporting this law. [[...]] Yesterday was a chamber of "holy pig" expertise. Today, this chamber is not valid. Please discuss once, which chambers are according to your expertise, which are non-professional, which are necessary and which are not needed! But not to work, I'll say, fools from themselves and from my government. But I'll take advantage if you share your time for a little longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u344	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, would you like a word now? Okay. Mr. Miran Potch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u345	Thank you very much. If we did not talk about this law thoroughly enough for the third time, then I would believe that this is a matter of ignorance and that many members of the coalition really believe what they are saying. Since we are considering this law thoroughly for the third time, I can hardly believe it anymore. And I think it's a purely conscious deception. See, Mr Gantar read the text presented by the Chamber, which is the material that the Government has also given to the Government - that he wants to eliminate his own monopoly and open up the possibility in this most sensitive area. However, you do not want to admit this and continue to claim that it was the desire to preserve the monopoly. See, as I will not read the text quoted by my colleague Gantar, what the Government has written in its proposal, on page 3 under the objectives of the bill are the following: "The essential novelty of the proposed amendment is that the Ministry of the Interior will take over from the holder of public powers the tasks entrusted by the Law on Private Protection as a public authority to the Chamber of Private Protection. The police will carry out these tasks as their own activity in accordance with Article 43 of the Public Finance Act. The cost of training shall be paid by a private security company or a private company..." - I quoted everything on page 3, at the end of the text. These are official texts, read them to yourself, and once again you claim that this is not true! And now you're saying that the amendment to article 12 that only opens up the possibility that maybe there will ever be a demonopol on the part of the Police Academy, that's the basic solution for you. Mr Hvauc told the truth as soon as possible, he said, "For now it will be only an academy, and later it will open." Mr Hwauc, look at the text, I am not quoting literally, but I have understood the meaning of this. Whether that happens or not, we'll see. Only this is the basic objective that the police or the ministry had and wanted to ensure. What were the reasons - it is not stated in the law, it is even stated that "changes of the law on private protection do not deviate from the objectives and principles of the law in force and constitute a continuation of the practice so far". And that man laughs, indeed, literally to himself, Minister and Secretary of State, laugh! You write this, and at the same time you all say, "We want to change the monopoly, we want to give someone else, we want to fix all the weaknesses, we want to end the mandatory membership," but this is the continuation of the law. Maybe the solutions are good, just have some crust and tell me what you're doing. Finally, fellow Members, ministers or representatives of the Government no longer hope to say so. They argue that we know some of the unloving events that have led to the need to change the law. All of you, including me, have the materials that have been given in this regard and the accurate information that the Ministry has not rejected so far, as has been the case with Lip and as has been the case with the Bank's SKB. In the case of Lipa: the company that carried out this protection at a time of tragic events, not knowingly naming it, I have it written down, had a licence from the Ministry of the Interior. Prior to this company, the Chamber did not grant a licence because it did not fulfil all the necessary conditions. I'm not saying it was negligence, I'm not saying it was intentional, just not blaming the insurance company for something that's the fault of the Ministry! As regards the protection of the Bank’s SKB, the criteria were laid down in the Chamber. The company which carried out this security at the Bank’s SKB did not comply with these criteria. There were warnings, but they weren't accepted. I am not saying that this is the reason, just to say that there is no guilt at the chamber and at its functioning, and these are the untruths which ladies and gentlemen are not so easy to state if there are papers that speak of something completely different. Therefore, once again: there are no arguments to be made, it is a matter of political determination by this Government that this part of the activity must be politically subordinated; and this will be achieved by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u346	Thank you very much. Mr. Hwauc, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u347	Thank you very much. I'll be very short given the time available. Apparently, my friend Potts didn't understand me very well. I have talked about the fact that this law does not bring a new monopoly, but that for a transitional period at a time when these procedures needed to be sought will be notified by the relevant providers of this training, so that no void will be provided by the Police Academy.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u348	Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor. Yeah, right, 12 seconds. Would you like a word from the government? Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u349	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again! Look, somebody's got to get the programs ready. In this case, so this is really going to be done by the interior ministry. However, all operators will be treated equally. And I think the expertise is definitely on our side. It's not just the study room. There's a lot more to the professional public. Disregarding the professional public, especially the Chamber of Commerce, was one of the main features of the internal ministry when this law was being drafted. I have to say it's not quite like that. On the contrary, actually! The Chamber of Commerce became involved very late in the private security chamber. Also, this proposal, which was presented here, is actually a product of the Private Protection Chamber at the time of the marriage, I think it is already in the second reading. There were no such initiatives before that. Mr Potts, too, when you mentioned Lipo - I am very reluctant to mention her. Even so far, I have avoided the challenge in all three readings of this case, but I am obliged to say to this, in fact, challenge. The company that protected the event did indeed have a license, but not a right. For this activity she did not have a licence; and this is recorded, evident and this is true. It's verifiable. Training is actually available to larger entities. So far, we have to say that it was just a private protection chamber, and through this I see part of monopolisation. As far as this last debate is concerned, I must say that, in essence, the Chamber will continue to train, that is, for a year, until appropriate programmes are adopted, then, of course, it may continue to work, but why not - if it meets the conditions! It is important to me and also to the Government, of course, which I imagine will not be a pledge of membership in the Chamber in this case. I can't here now not argue or comment on how it is with another department, with another area, as Mr Germić has pointed out. My area is internal affairs, not health. That's why you're sorry here. There's nothing more I can say. I'm sure the law wasn't just adopted overnight. That is probably what you have been betrothed to do, Mr Honourable Member of the Potsch. Because you said in this last part of the implementation that there was quite a broad debate here. Before that, too, there was a lot of coordination with the professional public, which -- I repeat -- is broader than just the private security chamber and the police. And I also think that I had to listen to some bitterness in this House through all the readings, today and through both committees. That is how I think the debate was quality on all sides. Infringements may not be justified enough, but I'll give you the right. However, in the second reading, as you may recall, those who were present specifically said that I do not wish to embroil on this subject, nor with Mr President or Director, as with various titles, which were present on the Tribunal. However, it was a worrying fact that there were so many complaints from economic operators covering this area and that the internal ministry or the government would not react to the negative. No one wants the cases listed here today in the future. Taking care of these irregularities was one of the reasons for monopolisation, for us to move to change the law. Of course, everyone can't like everything, they say that God isn't good for everyone. And I apologize for this comparison, because it's inappropriate, and I'm a little out of it. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u350	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the Council of State want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u351	Thank you for your word. I must say that the debate was very interesting, especially in some way falling into place at the right time, given the adoption of the law yesterday, and especially today in the first reading of the law on the Chamber of Commerce. All I want from you is for you to use the same vats when you make your decision. Of course, I am telling you, dear Members, the Government is doing its job, and mine, as a state councillor under the Constitution and the law, is to try to draw attention to the problems that arise in the process of adoption. And here it must be said that, as we have now heard from the Government's representative, that the Chamber has only been included in a second reading. I must say that the actual chamber was already included in the first reading in the State Council, with all these arguments that are actually occurring even now in the third reading. Here it must be said, however, to be honest that quite a few of the things that we have proposed have also been included in this law, but this has not been easy. It was also apparent that accepting a veto was a kind of speculation when voting in the State Council. I must say that in all the votes, on the Commission and on the Council of State, there was more than 90% for the procrastination veto to be warned and that it is possible for you, Members and Members to decide once again and somehow find that this law is not suitable for publication at this time. Some of you have seen very well, even that this law simply does not have what the law must have when preparing changes: empirically, analytically shown, for which something was not good, why it was necessary to change. I did not use numbers on purpose at the beginning of my implementation. You all know that somehow number 7 is the one who is supposed to be critical and alerts the proposer to change the law. But we all probably know in this society, and this report also says that the police have committed almost 200 similar crimes. In other spheres of social life, mistakes are like this or different, from experts, doctors, to the military, and I don't know where, but don't measure with such vats as they are here. The seven "cobayagi" of some offences take away the original jurisdiction of the chamber, original, because without this chamber there is simply no need to take. And even those of you who have read have read very well that the chamber itself has suggested, but if there is a problem of compulsory membership, this should be abolished under the law on the chamber. So, there's just no hearing here, and it's not good here. Even as far as the veto is concerned. Here it is necessary to say that vetoes that failed and then went to constitutional review, in fact 90% of these branches of the State Council were positively resolved in constitutional judgements. And I assure you that in this composition this State Council is not playing any rival to the National Assembly, but it is trying to do what is its original competence and obligation to draw attention to what you Members may have with greater policy to do, little less likely to even contact the base itself, but with us it is much bigger, and we are also not professionals, and we are somehow more likely to be able to reach these incentives. And that's just how we manage it. I'm sure you'll take it at least in the vast majority also well-intentioned. A free economic initiative is said, and then but. She's not here. Either it's a free economic initiative or it's not. The woman's pregnant or she's not pregnant. He can't be here right now - but that's why he's not here, and that other chamber does. And I am sure, and with this I will also conclude that you probably understand our concern and our desire to re-judge Members, that you are also free Members, by your own souls responsible to yourself and to the people and I am sure that you will not go through any arithmetical story and vote on the parent key, but that you will listen to arguments that, in fact, those who advocate the law are among the lines, you will do so, but that there is a possibility that something is wrong. Correct now that it is possible not to wait again one or two years for the matter to change when it is, I don't know, a constitutional judgement or you will find it wrong yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u352	Thank you very much. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Check-in is on. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u353	Thank you for your word, Madam President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u354	Five minutes tops.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u355	Thank you. Thanks again for saying that. I'm going to try to contradict some claims by law advocates, even though I don't think it has any hack because they already have their own "pildek" what to press at which point, but I'm going to try. It has been said that some chambers are mainly lobbying in this case. I'll point out, they're lobbying professionally for their own interests. Yesterday in rehab, and you'll say there was no lobbying. It's a craftsman's wedding today. And you'll say the Chamber of Commerce didn't lobby the government. You can't fool me, Slovenia can't and the public can't. Changes for the better when we weigh the previous proposal and the current proposal. The previous proposal gave a monopoly to the Private Protection Chamber. The current proposal gives the MNZ monopoly, which is also very well said by Mr Hvauc, otherwise he said 'for a certain time', but this time component is very undefined. Although you said that Article 12 allows someone else to apply and engage. But we have this frame for education, and we have it now, I think. Why did we not give at least two entities and allow others the possibility of why there should be only one entity? And if we're talking about expertise, or I'm going back to the study, if we're talking about a membership that's going to reduce the monopoly. We kept the Chamber of Commerce an hour ago, but we didn't talk about the monopoly, you all said it was a generous act of the government. This is a monopoly. This government should decide whether or not to act in one way or another. For now, I think he's working very confusingly, all in one day. Moving on to private security as an economic activity. I know you can't answer me because you didn't sign up. But which chamber does he belong to? Or in the economic, perhaps craftsmanship, according to the law we have adopted? Does it belong only to the Private Security Chamber? Perhaps three chambers can be included and then we have a big problem and confusion. Someone said Article 12 allows - of course it allows until you read it accurately. When you read it exactly, you see it doesn't allow it. And another matter, Mr Secretary of State, when you said you were an expert. I agree that professionalism is paramount when we talk about protection, regardless of the cases that you have or have not flown out of your mouth, either Lipa, or the SKB, or anything. Expertise is really important. But let me tell you who gave credibility to the police or the MNZ that he's the most expert in this country, that he's going to teach someone how to protect themselves. You have problems yourself, believe me. You have problems inside your species. I told you once before, the cops aren't happy with the clothes. Inside the police, you were under the pretext that it was an action of the euro, overseeing the Strojanov. Don't tell me it's not true. I know cases when people were mobilized, cops were mobilized to go to Gotenica, so you sent them somewhere else. You don't know how to clear up within your own species, and you say you're the most professional. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u356	Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u357	that you will carry out private protection. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u358	Excuse me. I need to interrupt. Let's stick to what we're talking about and what you've come up with. Please, if you don't start with other topics.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u359	I'm not starting another topic. I'm talking about the expertise of the MNZ, who is the only one authorized to provide education, education in the event of private protection, and I'm giving you evidence of why he's not the only one with so much expertise. There are also institutions that are more professional, whether you admit it or not. You will destroy one chamber with this. Okay. I also believe that the government has a different interest in someone else's training. If you look at Article 12, it can be any S.P. that will, I'll say, please the Government or the Ministry of the Interior. And when someone speaks, and once again I have to point out by the government Members, that it is not a monopoly or that it is a monopoly for a certain time, it seems really funny to me. You are nodding me, Mr Secretary of State, I believe you, but let me reconcile this with your Members. They're the ones who don't know exactly what they're saying. But one of your MPs, the government, said it was a monopoly for a certain time that was not defined. Let's get a little alignment, be coordinated, or don't come here at all. Veto is legitimate, and I'm happy to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u360	Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u361	Dear President! Dear fellows and fellows! Now in this debate, something other than what the debaters wanted to say is being discussed. This does not apply only to Members, of course, but also to Ministry representatives. It is simply such a miraculous language that allows us to understand something that has not been said on purpose. But still, let's stick to what's related to marriage. See if the state has decided to monitor, through the Ministry of the Interior and the police, the activities that it has given up a while ago, to say this honestly and clearly. The police used to do a lot of what security guards do today. Apparently, she also began to see another opportunity of her own, and of course I would like to get it back. But since it is necessary to do so and to do so, and in view of all that is happening in the police, in view of the staffing problems, it is clear that it is no longer possible to carry out its composition at this time of protection. But he can take a piece of this cake. He can take it in such a way that he does not monopolize it, but to take over some education and everything that has been charged for his services so far is charged by the police. Why am I talking about this? Because, in one of the debates on the Committee on Internal Policy, it also heard how everything is actually going to be the same, because "our" lecturers are teaching there anyway. Of course it's true, it seems, a profession you can't then deny that it's bad. So it's basically just that piece of cake that you want to tear, and at the same time control this state, so to speak, Slovenian security. It is, of course, a police subsystem, because everything will actually run through the police, via the Police Academy, through the Ministry of Internal Affairs and through this control. The proposal is also questionable, or the law itself is likely to be constitutionally controversial, as freedom of association and free economic initiative have been launched. At the same time, the professions that are close to the police are being treated in a different way. Security guards are very different from detectives, detectives have complete autonomy under the Detective Activity Act, they determine their own education, they execute it, they do what they want. Although their foundation is the task of the police's work, it's an inquiry. Private security is based on something else. It's a matter of preventive matters and it works for the contracting authority. These are the differences that the proposer and those who advocate his proposal would have to take into account and disregard him. My reasons or the arguments we're going to try, and then we're going to see, and then we're going to look at it, and they don't actually convince me or in some way make me want to reject this, because live trials are banned in Slovenia. I hope they're on people, that they're also on social groups and on all Slovenes, in vitro. Mr. Klavora knows what that means. And since this law does not tolerate safe relaxation, nor relaxed security, then it is not worth supporting.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u362	Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u363	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives! An essential reason, a fundamental question that arises when a person adopts a change in marriage or a new marriage, is why such a law arises and changes what it is. Well, I would understand that all indications would be such that the education of private guards through the chamber, as has been arranged, proved poorly that it is necessary to do and medias indeed. But that's obviously not the reason. The second point in this law is, we all wanted to join the European Union and we want to be Europeans and there are many laws that we must respect, which we must implement, we must introduce and fully implement. In Europe, in European countries, in almost the majority, there are cases where a policeman, if he leaves the police, should not go from two to five years at all to an institution where he would educate private security. And that's where the question begins. We do exactly the opposite of what is supposed to apply where we live. And you know that the Slovenian National Party was a Eurosceptic party? But once you're at the club, you have to follow their rules. And, Mr Secretary, you will understand the dilemma and our anger. Yesterday, we had a similar case with the medical bill. I know you don't understand the law on medicine, but you understand the relationship of economic activity: the chamber. And now we find that private protection is a clear economic activity that must have a chamber to protect its interests, but literally by doing so - by transferring - it abolishes it. But medicine is treatment, it's acupuncture, it's treatment. And it's not an economic activity. But we are establishing an economic chamber. Do you understand that you don't know, from day to day, a fellow who prepares this so you don't know what you're doing? What's economic -- you're taking a chamber, what's not economic -- you're creating a chamber. But the chamber is where it protects the interests of some economic activity, and that is what pisses us off and why we compare. And finally, look, the question is, what's going to happen to this room now? Would it not be better to find out for some reason that she is the only competent and competent and capable and even the police, and to say that from now on, the Chamber of Private Protection is no longer. That would be the fairest and fairest thing ever. What's even strange is that this chamber wants, now it has mandatory membership status, which you haven't touched in this law at all, but this chamber wants to go from compulsory to voluntary membership. That's the funniest thing. On the other hand, we do have an economic chamber that brought together some interests and wanted a mandatory membership, but we took that membership and gave it on a voluntary basis. I think it's all wrong. But we're not so stupid that we can't compare A, B, C, D. And that's why we're angry. You, if you think it's your job to make it better, it's right. Okay. Keep it, but stop the chamber, don't let it die on meals, not just in those terms, and don't even look there for a mandatory membership. Who will, listen, if I'm going to be a security guard and now I'm going to have to study with you under this law, and there I have a chamber and a mandatory membership that still lives. I'm not stupid. I'm not going to pay the mandatory membership of the chamber to educate myself. That's not working. Dispose of the chamber honestly. And once again, private security is an economic activity, all those who engage in any economic activity must have one that protects their interests. These are the study rooms. And now let's just say: Are we going to change the activity or are we going to change the study?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u364	Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u365	Thank you so much for saying that again. Mr. Secretary of State, I know that it is difficult for you to comment on everything, including from other fields or that it is even impossible, but I would remind you that you represent the Government here, not just your own department, because the Government has sent this law and my purpose was only to point out the non-consistency of the Government's actions. I understand that you cannot comment on that in another field, because you are an expert in the field you are regulating, but the inconsistency of this government in various areas, which should similarly regulate some social relationship, shows that this review is not that there is no consistency and that the Government is not doing well here. The second thing I'd like to remind you of. Look, I remind you once again of your text, which the Government has forwarded to the National Assembly and has already been quoted here in some parts. And very clearly, your actions define what you wrote purely in the introduction in the first sentence, where you say that the type of activity before the adoption of systemic laws in this area was exclusively within the purview of the police. And now the police want these things back. And when we talk about what the justification was, the reasons for amending this law are a specific chapter or sub-chapter aimed at the exercise of public powers, the completion of training of security personnel. You don't say anywhere in this room that's a problem with the quality of the premises, the finance, I don't know what. But all you're talking about here is that you want to create a unified concept of quality training for all actors that provide security. But the solution, which is not here to try to regulate, supplement, clearly define how this is to be done, no, delete an economic activity from the economic operator, transfer it to the country and to the one who makes money on the market, offer this service to the State to pay it. And then you ensure how economic growth, free economic initiative, competitiveness and so on. Yeah, how can you base this precedent, for example? Take economic activity to the Ministry, set the conditions, i.e. scope, type, exclusiveness to carry out the activities closer to you, take control with you, set prices and everything and charge it economic activity, which must survive on the market, also survive on the market through an activity that is training and replenishment. There's no logic here, there's no logic here that we're trying to prove to you and show you that this content in marriage is wrong. If you are in favour of this, then of course you must also take responsibility so that operators, economic operators involved in the provision of private security can, of course, put these companies in bankruptcy, poorer economic results and so on. Can you tell these companies today that their economic role in the market economy will thus be strengthened? I'm asking the question. I come from an environment where we have a strong economic company in this area of Security, and we have warned her that it is becoming insecure what the entire ministry will define here. And if you want to achieve this goal, I can fully agree with it. You want to establish a uniform concept of quality training, but nowhere do you say that it is now such a big problem that with the public authority of someone who gives it, you do not have to regulate it, but at the same time of course you could open up this story, deregulation of this monopoly that now exists. Not by doing this to yourself, but by supplementing the existing text to ensure the establishment of a uniform concept of quality training while creating the conditions for competitiveness you want to have. I really don't understand why you have to take this into your own hands, tell economic operators that it is now going to be much harder on the market. But it will be harder for you because the country has taken part in an economic activity that could strengthen your economic work. It doesn't make any sense here. And if you continue as the Government, so that you will take their economic activities to economic operators, you will take them. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] On our shoulders, we perform them, then we can ask ourselves how this society, which we want to have as a model for development, will be in the future. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u366	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The legislative vote will take place on Friday, 13 July 2007, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, in the framework of the 10th part of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume at 9 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u367	In the presence of Members and Members, I ask them to take their seats. We'll move on to the decisions of the National Assembly. Before individual votes, I ask Members and Members to verify the functioning of their voting devices. Before we proceed with the interruption of the second point, the National Assembly will decide on the proposal of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. You received the proposal on the bench, if we finish the meeting by 2 p.m. tomorrow, we will also include the treatment of the 19th, 20th and 21st agenda items, which is the provincial legislation. The proposal, as tabled by the Group of Social Democrats, will not be accepted if one third of the Members present oppose it. What time are we gonna be working tomorrow, and we're gonna decide tomorrow? Can we move on to a decision? We're voting. The proposal by the SD Group is not adopted, which means that we will continue the programme as set out in the College on 6 July this year. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda - decision-making on amendments in the second reading to the Proposal for a Law on the Successors of Authorised Investment Companies. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Chapter 3. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 25 votes in favour, 41 votes in favour. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Chapter 4. I am opening the procedure for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Member Cyril Testen will give an explanation of the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u368	Thank you for your word. In our parliamentary group of amendments to Chapters 3 and 4 of this Act, we will not support these amendments because we have already processed everything on the Committee and have been rejected, now they are trying to return to the procedure and they want to prepare the bill in the form it was originally. That's why we're gonna go against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u369	Thank you. Member Milan Cvikl will give a position or explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u370	The amendments proposed by the parliamentary group are, of course, linked to the basic proposal of the law. The government has decided not to allow the legal successor of the pid to be transformed into a mutual fund. This prevents the Government from supporting the amendment, but only large shareholders can benefit from the property in this pid. If it were possible to transform into a mutual fund, then all the relative owners of the mutual fund would have something to do with it. This is the content of this amendment. What Comrade Testen said, you've already refused. You've already rejected chapter three. I will not go back to the third chapter, which would allow for the creation of new investment companies, but at least the creation of a mutual fund would be logical in nature. It's a shame the Minister of Finance isn't here today to explain this to you. I suggest you support the amendment, but I understand that you have other commands, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u371	Thank you very much. An explanation of the votes of DeSUS Members will be given by Mr Franz Znidaršič. You're giving up. Ambassador Maja Shirtz will give an explanation. You're quitting, too. Comrade Joseph Scholch? You're quitting, too. Messenger Maria Pozsonec. You're quitting, too. Ambassador Davorin Targeton? [[...]] Is there a desire to explain in your own name? [[No, no, ……]] Then we can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 40. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 24a of the SDS Group. In doing so, I warn you, if the amendment is adopted, the amendment becomes number two irrelevant. The amendment under order number 2 is the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present and 54.1 votes against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted and that the amendment under the order number is irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group's amendment to Article 24.b, where the same footnote applies if the amendment is adopted, the amendment becomes irrelevant under order number 2 of the SD Group's amendment. Explanation of voice. I only open the procedure for those who intend to speak. Please. Member Milan Cvikl will explain on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u372	I stopped by because it says here that there is no vote on the amendment under point 2. The content is that the amendment under 2 is not irrelevant, but if you support the SDS amendment, you will also support the SD amendment. So I propose that we vote on the SDS amendment. I myself will support the SDS amendment, because it has taken a substantive and extended the SD amendment announced on the committee, and I will be very happy if the SDS will also support its amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u373	Thank you very much. My friend Skull, you didn't give up. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u374	This time, we are exceptionally supportive of partners and cooperatives. Thank you. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u375	So we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 2. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I give the floor below to the bill-maker, Mr Milan M. Cwickle, if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u376	I would suggest that the National Assembly also conducts a third examination of the law at this meeting. The reasons for this are clear and I think there is sufficient support in the ruling coalition to allow this law to come to life after the third season of the boards of shareholders, so I suggest that we do this at this meeting and, of course, make it easier for us to do some work in autumn. Perhaps a congregation of shareholders will still be affected by this law. I suggest we take this law to the third hearing of this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u377	My friend Tanko, in the context of the procedure, only the proposer has the floor. I can give you my word if you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u378	Thank you for your word. We'll make another amendment for the third hearing. I'm predicting we'll do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u379	Before that, we will decide on the proposal made by Comrade Cwickle. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the Act's amended proposal were adopted in the second reading, the bill's proposer proposes that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, take a third reading of the bill at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law tomorrow, 13 July, in the framework of the vote, which will take place after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. Sorry, not tomorrow, Friday. With regard to the suspension of item 3 of the agenda, I inform you that the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will hold a third hearing, namely a vote on the proposal for a law on the market in financial instruments, tomorrow, Thursday 12 July, in the framework of the votes. With regard to the adjourned 4th item of the agenda, I inform you that the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will have a third reading, namely a vote on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Change of Insurance, also take place tomorrow, which is Thursday 12 July, in the framework of the votes. However, we are going through or continue with the interruption of the 6th item of the agenda - the decision on amendments in the second reading to the Proposal for a Service Law in the Slovenian Army. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We have two amendments to Article 58. First, we will move on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group. Here, too, I warn you that if the amendment is adopted, the amendment under order number 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 44. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one is not accepted. My friend Anderlich, I'm not giving you the procedure. You can explain your vote to the amendment under order number two. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 58. I am opening an explanatory procedure on behalf of the Group of Members. Please. Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u380	Thank you, Vice President. Given that the amendment tabled by colleagues from the Liberal Democracy has not been received, although we have also supported it, because it has systematically addressed an issue that we have discussed a lot today, I call on you to support our amendment, however. Our amendment, which we have already explained this afternoon, allows the government, of course, to regulate the remuneration of salaries and thus certain specific professions, which are extremely deficient and which, as set out in the bill, will not be satisfied and will continue to expire after our assessment. It is true that there are some improvements in the law itself, including in this article proposed by the Government with the addition of the coalition, but they are too weak. Of course, according to our assessment, they will not meet the expectations we have with this law. This is an important law on service in the Slovenian Army, which is intended to definitively regulate the status of all employees in this organisation, in this structure, but also, of course, to allow those professions that are deficient to be excluded from the system of salaries of public servants and to reward otherwise. I hope that you will listen to this, if not, to the law itself, even if our amendment is rejected, we will not oppose it, I have already said, some improvements but we will not support it, and we will leave the coalition to answer for it entirely. In a year, as I said, we will see what the effects of these solutions were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u381	Thank you very much. Mr Anderlič, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u382	Sir, the vice president. You've misused the procedure, and that's your manner. Since your client colleague was very clear before we discussed the law, I did not expect you to do anything differently than you did. When you look at the magnetogram, you will see that you have not given time to explain your voice at the first amendment. But that's your manners. That's how you are, and you can't be changed. I will support the amendment, as well as the Parliamentary Group of Mr Aurelia Juri or SD, because this law is so important and this article is so important for members of the Slovenian Armed Forces that they should listen to those voices that say: Slovenian soldiers, and especially professions within the Slovenian Armed Forces, which are comparable to some other services, should be regulated outside the public sector wage system, because they are professions that are deficient, which are those that directly force the institutions of certain functions and parts of the Slovenian Army; it was about pilots, it was about divers, it was about some other professions - that they can find a better job on the market and they are also using it. The Government or the Ministry of Defence also had a provision in one of the previous versions that a special allowance may be established for work abroad and dealt with in a special way. That fell out of the law. Why, we don't know. However, this is particularly comparable with the countries that work together with our country in certain operations abroad, from Kosovo, Afghanistan and beyond. For Slovenian soldiers for those carrying out these responsibilities, obviously this special status cannot be. In our amendment, we have also proposed a comparable arrangement concerning the taxation of the benefits that these [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] Members are received abroad, of course with members of the Austrian, Belgian, some other armies. [[...]] It is obvious that for some other employees, whether in Austria or in Brussels, i.e. for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, this can be done, for Slovenian soldiers, not for members of the Slovenian Army. It's a duplicity, it's something this government does all the time, and at least it's this one. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] The amendment must be accepted. [[...]] Otherwise, what the government representatives have to say to this law, it is also said that none of the authorised representatives, not the Minister, nor the Secretary of State today are [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] Present. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u383	Thank you. I hope you will look at the list of votes and I hope you will apologize. This will be a test of your morals, Comrade Anderlich. I'm opening the application procedure on my own behalf, please. My friend Milan Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u384	Thank you so much for setting up some order in this round hall. I regret that we have rejected an amendment that would allow for a legal solution to what the Minister of Finance has promised to the employees of neighbouring Austria from places near the Austrian border. If the amendment were adopted under Article 1 to 38, it would be perfectly legal and would cost EUR 1.6 million or 0.5% of the money spent on armoured personnel. Too bad the government is playing football today, instead of being here, in Savinijska they say they're playing football instead of being here to defend this amendment. With regard to the second amendment, I propose that you support it, because this will guarantee at least that if we have already purchased armor, we will have drivers for these armoured personnel. That's the purpose of this marriage. If you decide to buy a plane, that we will have an airport in the Church, that we will also have pilots and that we will have military health personnel who will not run either into public institutions or in concessions. And if you do this, you will at least minimally stop the further departure of Slovenian military personnel from the service outside Slovenia. It's your call.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u385	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 40. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the second amendment to Article 58 is also not adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 96. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 42. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted either. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. As no amendment to the draft law has been adopted, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will hold a third hearing, this is the vote on the draft law on Friday, 13 July, in the framework of the votes to be taken after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - the consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration of Support for efforts to ban cluster bombs and other cluster munitions that cause unacceptable harm to the civilian population. As no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a declaration, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a declaration. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 66 votes in favour, none against. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the declaration has been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda - second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gradual Closure of Trbovlje Mine - Hrastnik and Developmental Restructuring of the Region. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje mine - Hrastnik and the development restructuring of the region is not suitable for further consideration. It shall open the application procedure on behalf of the groups of Members. Please. Member Pavel Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u386	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Since we did not have the time declared at this point in the Parliamentary Group of Non-Aligned Members, it is right to explain our vote on behalf of the Group of Members, namely, we will vote against the decision of the Working Body, because we believe that this law, despite having some shortcomings, deserves at least a second reading, to be processed, processed, completed, upgraded and then improved to the end. We therefore believe that this law should be given this opportunity to receive and stop serious parliamentary treatment. The problems created are serious, related to regional development and the fate of one whole Slovenian micro region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u387	Thank you, too. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u388	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We will vote against such a decision in the Group of Social Democrats. We believe that we could give the National Assembly a green light for this law also because the government moves around regions every month and promises how it will help to develop and boast about the great achievements that have been made from the first to the second visit. And if we were to think seriously, then the coalition sitting here in the National Assembly, while ministers are playing football, could vote by giving this law a green light and allowing for the further development of this region. In addition, it is intended to extend the validity of the law, which refers to the closure of an important mine and to allow for further development. All those countries that have casually treated mines and mine closures are now paying for this large penalty. I would like to say that in France, where the closure of their mines has been very unprofessional, today very difficult and they call on experts from all over Europe as well as from the world, including experts involved in closing Slovenian mines. What you vote today will be a bad sign for this region, for Slovenia and for development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u389	Thank you, too. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u390	Mr President-in-Office. Dear fellows and fellows! In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will vote against the proposal for a decision. As has already been said, these are very complex questions. The closure of the mine and the restructuring of the region are not a matter that could be completed in a short period of time, but, at the same time, unforeseen things are always occurring in the light of the expected time. The closure of the silt mines has certainly not been well evaluated; the time for closure is right. After all, it is necessary to know that these trenches are underground and that they are quite close to the surface, more than 80 kilometers away, and, of course, also have a significant impact on what is happening on the surface. The matter cannot be closed as a room with a key, but a number of procedures must be carried out to avoid what is happening as said by colleague Bevk, in France or as they happen, in the Czech Republic and Poland, when, in fact, they closed the mines with the lock. This damage or these additional costs shall then be 10 times, 20 times the estimated costs of other closures. Not here, actually. This is a matter of minimal extension of the closure period, which would in some way relieve this country's annual budget, but would also, of course, facilitate the social problems that will arise and which will arise at the time of the mine's complete closure. In addition, it is important to take into account that 600,000 tonnes of this coal is burned annually in the trebwell thermal power plant and, of course, this contributes significantly to the existing energy shortage in Slovenia. If you consider all of this, of course, we could easily support the marriage. But at this point, of course, we're only asking you to let him in for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u391	Thank you, too. And Ambassador Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u392	Thank you, Chairman. I'm stressing again because you've never heard it before. The law does not increase public funds, the law even reduces the proportion of appropriations from the budget, given that it is extended by two years. The amount does not change, remains the same, only instead of 100 units in 2009 will the state give only 70 units. Another time. This country gave nothing to the mine, but it took 200. We've heard praises before about what the state is giving. She hasn't given anything. She's ruined 200 years. If you don't know, the mine is a manufacturing process, the knap goes into the cave, the coal mine sells it to the thermal power plant. Sales - cash flow. This coal power plant produces electricity that is sold to the State, money flows, does not leak, nor does it trigger demagogies. Third time. This country has no idea about the electricity strategy, about the energy strategy. We import energy from Italy, which is 5% more expensive than ours; rather than Italians, rather than give 5% of the priority control of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje, which will be new in 2015, modern. This country gave EUR 20 million 4 years ago for a brand-new desulphurisation plant so that it could burn the tungsten coal that is present. And yet you don't understand and you don't know. Above all, close that mine, which you gave him on 3 July, a week ago, a sign of excellence and admitted to him that it is a developing, advanced company in Slovenia and around the world. What, I'm gonna say one weird look at B, I'm not gonna say it, and I'm gonna sell a tomato horse, and who's giving a sign of excellence to someone to shut it down? And do you know how much that sign of excellence cost? Ask your minister. You don't even know what you're doing, and let's just be totally ashamed of you. I don't care what you do. I don't care. If the Orleks sang "Adio Knapi" and it was a song of success, there will be a great song in 2008 that will really hit "Adio SDS and Friends".
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u393	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? I'm opening a self-explanatory procedure, please. My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u394	And to the end; 1876 calculated by the Doctors of Science, at the close of 2000 will be unemployed, directly and indirectly. You who don't know work for the mine for another bunch of businesses, after 30, 40 there are employees who will lose their jobs and their family too. You don't have to. They'll live. This country is so smart, it prefers to pay jobless people rather than pay those who work.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u395	Thank you. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u396	The biggest parody of this evening is that the Government plays football 30km away instead of here in the National Assembly Minister Vizjak proposing that this law be adopted to propose a different decision, such as the decision proposed by the Coalition on the basis of the will of the mother's working body. I politically understand that you have an opinion, but I do. The review of the proposed laws, the study of the economic institute of the Faculty of Law, which, by the way, is also an institute which has made several other reviews for the current Government, says very simple, gradually, delayed, what is proposed here, closing the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine would reduce the shock. And that's what this is about. It is about whether the Government or the state is capable of reshaping the development opportunities of this region for a longer period than now to find space for this mine. At the same time, I am not asking what is a much more fundamental question, which is the question of what will happen to all the environmental problems, all the energy problems that are missing in Slovenia and will run out of it, is one such abandonment of a potential energy pool. I regret that in this way you reject the good proposal of fellow Members of the parliamentary group or Members who have tabled this law [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I will vote against the proposal of my mother's working body myself. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u397	Thank you. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u398	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I'll vote against the decision myself. Against the conclusion, which is like this government, it seems to me, out of harmony, strange, unhygienic. There is more to the reason that I speak such difficult words. The first is that when the minister comes to this house, where he is served from the front and from the back, he comes to the board because he is supposed to like it, because most of the board has a government coalition, he can say what he thinks. But when it comes to telling the same thing in the Rippers in front of the miners, without coming alone, he sends out his own fences talking about what perspectives it is, how the miners are smart, how beautiful they have to work, what perspective this mine is. And only a week later. Now you tell you whether it's a lack of coordination between the minister and his work, or whether it's a total lack of hygiene for this government. I believe in a different story myself, given that I've been following this work for three years. And one more thing, the call, the appeal, or whatever you take, without the leaves you have in front of you. The fate of 1,876 people, respected colleagues in the coalition, is in your hands. You decide whether execution or extension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u399	Thank you. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u400	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I won't be long and moralized, even though I could. Believe that also because of the information I have read from the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs some time ago, that he is in Slovenia, our country, where the Prime Minister of the Government, where individual ministers boast high economic growth, is more than 40% of Slovenes and Slovenes dependent on social transfers. And if you reject this law, there will be new 390 Slovenians and Slovenians on social transfers, on the fact that I read in the newspaper today that 700 people in our country have also lost this right due to previously adopted very restrictive social protection laws. This is not about increasing the financial resources under the budgets, in order to extend the operation and production or closure of the Trbovlje Hrastnik mine for two years. The point is that the existing financial resources already adopted under the Slovenian budgets would only be redistributed to an additional two years. That's all this is about. But you also abolish this right, including this possibility when it comes to the renewed fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not have a plan B to help or restructure the Sava region. Dear colleagues, think again. If you press the negative button or vote against the law coldly, then I say from this place that you can be truly ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u401	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u402	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. I would like to say that today, even before today's vote has taken place, the government has given its position on this law to the Autogalus, even before it even went to one of the regions. Tomorrow you will adopt a budget rebalancing and a budget implementation law unanimously on the right, where you will recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank with one move up to €50 million, which will be repeated in the coming years. When you compare this with EUR 50 million, with the amount to be extended to finance the modernisation of the thermal power plant and to regulate the development conditions in the micro-region, as has been heard today, miners are probably not satisfied if we call them micro-regions, but that is how it is, it's actually a carpool. I think that to compare the recapitalisation of the bank, which was corrected by the error of the same government, which was made when the recapitalisation by KBC was rejected, I think we can't say otherwise and it's very sad that this government is rather investing in casino mega-centres than in energy production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u403	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? The proposal for a decision is as follows: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine and the development restructuring of the region is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. 71 Members and Members were present, 36 votes in favour, 35 against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 35.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I also note that this is the end of the legislative procedure for the bill. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Communications, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on Electronic Communications is not suitable for further consideration. I am opening the procedure for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u404	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! We will not support this decision in the Group of Social Democrats, because we believe that today we have an opportunity for Members and Members to correct, in our opinion, a mistake or a bad solution that we have adopted when we adopted this law. In fact, 24 months of storage of my data with a mobile operator means that from the beneficiary of modern communication technology I have turned into a supervised citizen in any case. And my mobile operator has turned from the entity that provides me with my free communication to my personal supervisor. Every day, all those years since my mom bought me a cell phone and as long as I'm using it, she'll have every opportunity to figure out where, where and with whom I've communicated, because the content doesn't matter. However, Members and Members of the Coalition would like to point out, given that there has been a lot of human rights talk recently, the position of the Group of Members, which was expressed in this Chamber a month ago and I will quote it, "Communication in the electronic network with electronic means has been increasingly diversified and increasingly used in recent years, and therefore there are great potential for abuse of the so-called communication privacy. While new information technologies have great democratic potential, they also have great potential for abuse. This relationship between the degree of control and privacy is also a measure of the democratic nature of individual societies, but the key component of democracy is human rights and freedoms. And because, in our opinion, it is enough to interfere with these freedoms and human rights for a period of 12 months, if we already have to do this because of some important things, then we propose. To make this your position by voting against this decision today, you will not go through the words you said years ago when the referendum was held at the previous point, and you said when you come to power, with new development opportunities in this region and in this region you will open up new options. Today, at the preceding point, you showed what you meant by this promise and by these voices.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u405	Thank you. Member Pavel Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u406	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will indeed vote against the decision of the parent working body. Today I have already tried to present some of the findings of the studies that have been made regarding the storage of traffic data. In particular, we have found that with the age of these data, their importance and value are declining and their potential for abuse is increasing with the quantity of these stored data. We have also found that these traffic data are not only related to fixed and mobile voice communication, but to all forms of communication of images, sound, transmission of data through these communications, including the Internet and other new technologies, and also to those that are emerging, as all of these fall under the concept of electronic communications. Is it really necessary that we have so much information about people, about their connections, if we really don't need them? The position in terms of the protection of personal data is to collect, store and process only those data that are necessary to ensure that the country and its security and, of course, human security are not compromised. 24 months is too long, most countries in the European Union do not have that long, they have smaller arms, and I do not know why all these things in Slovenia would be accepted through police and security optics, but not through the optics of human rights protection. That is why, of course, I also take this opportunity to call on Members and Members of the coalition to do at least something good for themselves, for the country and for democracy in this country today, by voting against the decision of the labour force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u407	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Školč has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u408	Thank you very much. The whole world is divided on these issues. Everyone in the world is discussing how much information needs to be stored, what information needs to be stored, and when this is even permissible. It seems that only the Slovenian Parliament can actually decide what is right in two debates, one on the parent committee and the other on the National Assembly. That seems extremely problematic to me. The rejection of the proposed decision would, in fact, allow us to step in with time to weigh human rights issues, to weigh security issues and issues of the meaning of the storage of such data warehouses as well as the issue of the possibility of abuse. I think that Parliament is obliged to keep this debate open, to invite interested parties to it and to make a reasonable decision in the regular procedure. That's it. I think it is essential that we reject this decision so that we can hold this debate, which is still very important, open. If we shut it down, we're wasting our time. She'll open up at the first possible next abuse. At that time, the one who will be hurt, unfortunately, will be the ones you have allowed not to discuss it, but even more so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u409	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 31. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. Therefore, the legislative procedure for the bill is also terminated. I hereby conclude this agenda item. However, we continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda - with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Commercial Law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the trade law, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. I'm opening a procedure for explanation. Here you go. Member Milan Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u410	Thank you, Vice President. Earlier it was said that we had, and in fact, we have, instead of Minister Visiank, who plays football, the opportunity to have, in the State Secretary's Assembly, a formerly excellent handball player, but at least today he did not do well on the floor, this parliamentary one. He did not answer any of the questions or almost none of the questions, dilemmas, doubts, concerns that we had at the hearing, at the time the Government gave him an answer. That was 15 minutes, he spent 8 or 9 minutes. In fact, what we LDS Members signed when we signed the proposal for a debate in the Government were seeking answers to the questions raised in this debate. And I think we needed to get some answers. Nevertheless, we have already told LDS Members that we will support this law at first reading. However, we are disappointed by the attitude of the government and the ministry, which has shown that we Members are already being held by some standard. I repeat, we will uphold the law at first reading, not because of the government, but because of the craftsmen, because of those who are appointed by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u411	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law was adopted at first reading and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated in second reading to the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. With regard to the end of the 24th item of the agenda, I inform you that the assembly will re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Protection on Friday, 13 July, in the framework of the votes which will be suspended after the 10th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Ownership of Real Estate in Social Property in the application of the Union of Trade Unions of Slovenia. On Tuesday, 10 July, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, no third reading amendments can be tabled. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a law. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 30th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night.
