ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u1	Dear Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 28th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. .................................................. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Stanislav Brenčič, Geza Juban, Ljubo Germič, Aleš Gulič from 17:00 on, Feri Horvat, Jožef Horvat, Drago Koren, Rudolf Moge, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Maria Possonec, Jožef Školč and Mag. Franz Znidaršič from 14:00 on. We're moving to 3. On the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on takeovers. The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. With regard to this law, the Committee on the Economy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the floor first to the representative of the State Council to complete the explanation of the proposal for a law. Mr President of the Council of State, Sušnik, welcome and welcome to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! The proposal that the State Council even debated the amendment of the takeover law came from the Gorenje economists, from a forum in Goreńsk, which had actually been discussing the issue of takeovers in recent times - since in fact there are four companies for which it was intended to take over and then there was repentance in the last days of takeover. That is why this initiative came through me to the Council of State because I know very well that the National Assembly passed the law last year, that it was in force last August, but we still believe that the regulation in Article 27 by publishing the takeover intentions where the takeover does not have a serious intention to take over, but to publish it only in order to prevent another takeover from being carried out. See, we only add in Article 27 that there is an indisputable presumption that the consignee has waived his or her intention if, within 15 days of the publication of the takeover intention, he does not apply for the takeover licence referred to in Article 32(1). And then another supplement if, within 30 days of the publication of the takeover intention, he has not obtained the licence for the takeover bid referred to in Article 32(1). In fact, it is only a complement to this article because it prevents further possible speculation. Under Article 38, the acquirer from the date of publication of the takeover bid until the expiry of the deadline was not allowed to purchase the company's objectives. We propose that if he publishes it in his prospectus, that it is also possible for him to buy outside the securities system, then at any higher price he will also make a correction of the value in his offer. In Article 47, we believe that, given the European directive - nowhere in Europe - there is no need to do business outside of regular business, so we propose to add a new sixth paragraph to Article 47. This means that, in the second paragraph, which states that, if there is a possible cross-over takeover, the Assembly of the target company must conclude on this subject, and we propose that this second paragraph should not apply, that this take-over intention, the subject of which is the securities of that acquirer or other target company, may be carried out without a decision of the assembly. And the last proposal not to make the takeovers, the scapegoats who repent because they do not have the conditions to take over the company - is said to be proposed in Article 53, paragraph 3, which reads as follows: "If the takeover is unsuccessful, the target company has the right to demand from the acquirer the reimbursement of the costs incurred in the takeover procedure." You all know that some costs arise, especially in this case - I did not talk about friendly acquisitions or hostile acquisitions, this defense is only in the case of hostile acquisitions. Hostile acquisitions have already been and will be, not only from domestic companies, but also from foreign companies. Therefore, I think that the proposal that the Council of State is referring to the National Assembly is well founded. Of course, I was also surprised by the Committee's conclusion that the law is not at all appropriate, without being acceptable, and is not suitable for further consideration. I believe that this subject will still come under consideration, as it will in practice show that at this point we are right state councilors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Stane Pajk has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u4	Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's not long before we've passed the takeover law on a full-time basis. In addition, a broad professional public was involved, so that the law was well and thoroughly processed and adopted in the National Assembly. The law provided satisfactory protection for all shareholders, especially small shareholders. Directives of the European Community have also been implemented in law, and the institute of takeover is also incorporated into the law, so we think that the law is good. The proposed law now proposes a substantial lack of substantive changes in order to be worth serious consideration. I must also say immediately that it is very difficult to determine in advance which acquisition is friendly to the society to which it is hated. This is not known in advance, this is shown only in time - so our Slovenian Democratic Party Group will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Milan M. Squeakl on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u6	Mr President, Mr President of the Council of State - also the drafter of law, MEPs and Members. Good day to you all. Although the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the takeover law has not been written long ago, the Social Democrats support the direction of addressing the pressing economic issues concerning acquisitions. In Slovenia we witness at least two completely flawed concepts of acquisition. Both concepts are identical in that they cause new injustices. It is funny that these days we are listening to Mr President of the Government, how Slovenia is freed, how injustices are done, and the government is rewarding its power elite by allowing problematic acquisitions. As the proponents say, we also see in the acquisitions that speculative offers actually cause economic damage, we must be aware that the management of the company from the moment the takeover bid falls, except for ongoing business, must not take strategic decisions that are likely to be targeted at defence. This, of course, is good because the administration - in so far as it works for the benefit of all shareholders, and this is how the Company Act provides - must protect the economic interests of the company that wants to take over. Unfortunately, this does not guarantee adequate protection of economic interest; it is not adequately secured by small shareholders who have obtained shares in most people through certificates. In the case of speculative tenders, i.e. tenders that do not end with acquisitions that are more for hec than indeed, the takeover undertaking suffers a certain injury to be replaced, and in this regard the bill is corrected. However, another more important issue, which should be discussed in the field and in the case of the takeover law, is the previous position of the President of the Government, which is also reflected in the opinion of the entire Government on this law. The government, the prime minister, as the main objective of this mandate, has, according to forecasts a few days ago, set the goal of ending privatisation in such a way as to prevent the country from having an impact on the economy in the next term. Of course, we support the Social Democrats' exit from the economy, but in one and a half years until the elections, it is not possible to sell the state share in the economy transparently and effectively. If the Mercator affair is repeated in the case of LIP Bled, in the case of Istrabenz, Petrol and elsewhere; therefore, sales will be made without a takeover premium or at the price of the share, as in the case of Droga Kolinska, small shareholders will be harmed. True, yesterday was said on TV, Slovenia enters the third, final phase of the property transformation transition. The first phase was the identification of the owners. The second phase was the distribution of assets between all of us. The third phase will, as proposed, be "acceptance". If the shares of the State, the CAD, and the SOD are sold in companies without a takeover premium, there will be significant damage to state property. We therefore expect that the Government, in addition to this amendment to the law on acquisitions, will return the provision that it is not possible for the shareholding of the firm to be given as a guarantee to the takeovers in order to obtain credits at all. It is an amazing fact that the government is closing its eyes in this regard and, of course, Slovenia is in a circle of underdeveloped countries, countries that are somewhere on the other side of the Carpathians. On Monday night, you can be on another program. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] TV Slovenia watched the case of Mikhail Hodorkovski. [[...]] If the way of privatisation financed by the takeover companies, without taking over premiums, is to be found out, as is now formally possible, of course we will have to continue to do so. We expect the Government and the coalition majority to support and prepare appropriate substantive additions to the takeover law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor on behalf of the Nova Slovenije Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u8	Well-known, respected Vice-President, Government representatives, President of the State Council, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, respected visitors on the balcony. I must say that in the New Slovenia Group we will certainly not support the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the takeover law proposed by the State Council or we will support the proposal for a decision of the home labour body. It certainly surprises us that the Council of State is not actually satisfied with the decision of the parent’s working body. In fact, we have recently been surprised by certain proposals from the Council of State, and I think that the last two meetings have set out proposals for laws that do not drink water, if I may say so. And one of these cases is this one. We probably all know that here, not a year ago, we passed this takeover law, in which we can safely claim clearly defined rules of the game and also the role of supervisors, if I may say so. In fact, a European directive on takeover offers is integrated, which is perfectly clear. What the Council of State proposes is that, in fact, in these few articles, which should be amended at the initiative of some entrepreneurs or economies, if I may say so, a completely new way or a system-wide new solution should actually be introduced. Well, somehow we'd still understand that if the content were really prepared for that, too. This is how the proposal is prepared, as I said before, in a way that "does not drink water at all". In fact, at least that is how we think in New Slovenia, we would be happy or pleased with a proposal to amend certain laws that come from the State Council, where we could say yes, which is justified in amending the law or in adopting certain additions or amendments to certain laws on the initiative of the State Council. Let me get this straight. With such suggestions, I feel that the State Council certainly does not gain reputation, and it would be good to consider what things it will send to the National Assembly next. We certainly will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Kristijan Janc, on behalf of the SLS Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, distinguished President of the Council of State, colleagues, visitors and visitors at the gallery! The new takeover law was transmitted by the State Council to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In opening, I must point out that the Law on takeovers now in force was adopted less than a year ago. This replaces the law so far, which has become obsolete from the point of view of the further development of the capital market in Slovenia. The new takeover law was also needed because of the European Community's takeover directive, which it fully respected. In particular, the fact that the Takeover Act has been prepared in cooperation with a large number of institutions and experts, which have been linked in different ways to the takeover legislation, should be highlighted. This method of preparation has undoubtedly provided a quality, professional law that takes into account both the experience of the profession and other participants in this field. At that time, the Council of State gave a positive opinion on a proposal from the law. Among other things, he wrote that solutions largely follow the requirement for Slovenia to join a group of countries with modern and effective takeover legislation. By introducing some new institutes, the bill removes the transitional specificities of the current law, which have led to a lack of equal treatment of all shareholders so far. Today's amendment to the law is based on experience or concrete practice that has shown that there are certain shortcomings in the implementation of the law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that it is not rational to amend the law on the basis of specific cases if they do not have any greater scope. A specific proposal for a law proposes in particular the sanctioning of the publication of acquisition intentions without purpose after actual takeover. We are aware that such institutions can be very harmful, especially for the society that is supposed to be taken over, but we do not believe that the legislator can effectively regulate this. It is a fact that it would be very difficult to prove the purpose of the acquirer if it were to be an alleged unrealistic publication of the takeover offer. In our view, the issue of unserious acquisitions can only be addressed by a market within which there is a whole range of possibilities for punishing an unserious tenderer. The proposed law therefore does not bring about major substantive changes, and it also conceptually deviates greatly from the applicable law adopted less than a year ago. The fact that many takeover experts have participated in the drafting of the current law and that, last but not least, the European Commission has also endorsed the law convinces us that this time the proposed changes are not necessary or even pointless. We also agree with the Government's opinion, which has been prepared for the bill under consideration. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support, on the basis of all that has been said, the decision of the parent committee that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the takeover law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u12	Your Honors are here! The Constitution and the law which set out the tasks, content and objectives of the functioning of the State Council also dictate the composition of the State Council, so to report to the State Council something which already gives it the Constitution; therefore, to follow individual interests, let it be the interests of the municipalities, local communities, to be the interests of individual lobbyists, of course, is solely due to the ignorance of the Slovenian Constitution, to the ignorance of the legislation which sets out the content of the State Council. The Council of State is for this in this country to show individual interests - it is nothing bad, it is a constitutional provision or it is a law and the law has been adopted by the National Assembly. But allow me to point out, at least in my opinion, some of the more important dilemmas that arise when this law is considered. The fact is that the securities market has never been and will never be fair. The stock market is a stock game. From this point of view, we must be aware that at a certain point of time the State should say whether it will decide on the strict rules applicable in the capital market or in the securities market or whether "soft rules" apply. We meet the "soft rules" south of us, Banja Luka, Sarajevo, Macedonia, where we see that the daily movements are probably due to serious or slightly less serious acquisitions of up to 10%, i.e. values based on the past or the present day. But it also has a positive property, a positive feature of the inflow of capital from abroad. Whether the state, the government, the ministry, can collect part of this money depends, of course, on each government or ministry, on nothing else. On the other hand, Slovenia could, of course, decide that this market has capital and the basic problem in our country is not in this partial resolution of problems, as indicated today or proposed by the State Council. The main problem is that our country should simply decide on a securities market strategy. As a result of this, from the acquisitions, let me also touch, many speakers before me, I think that the proposaler also mentioned taking more seriously, more for less. I do not believe that there are acquisitions "for fun".I believe that someone stands behind such takeover offers, someone stands behind their speculative purposes, that is to say, a rise or, of course, a fall in a certain value of a matter. As a result, we personally and, of course, within the framework of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors until we have a definition in our country of the strategy, the basic orientation of securities, does not seem to make sense to adopt such a legal provision as is proposed today. For the law that is before us only partially interferes with the matter. Personally, I am also not one to agree that the cost of failing to take over must be reimbursed. In my opinion and in my opinion, the Republic of Slovenia has decided on the market system of the economy. Then we have to say at a certain border, "Stop, from here on out, the players are in their markets." What are the consequences of their decisions, their approaches; if positive, they should have positive, if negative, they should bear negative. And this kind of regulation, regulation by law, does not seem right or right to me personally. However, I would like to stress what I think would be more important to determine in terms of the operation of capital, securities, whatever, is that our country should agree: whether we have an emphasis on the free market or whether we will [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] have a market for securities regulated by sharp standards. [[...]] As long as we don't have it, of course, it's very pointless, whether it's partial to solving individual matter or talking about having a fair settlement in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u14	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues and colleagues, President of the Council of State, Mr. Sušnik. The current law has been prepared in cooperation with a large number of institutions and experts, which are largely linked to both the theoretical and the practical aspects of acquisition. Such means of drafting regulations undoubtedly allow solutions to be prepared professionally, completed and to take into account all aspects and possible consequences of regulating a particular area. The implementation of the European Takeovers Directive was also an essential part of the current takeover law, and in this way we joined the dynamicly developed and effective capital markets of other countries. We are convinced that the recently adopted law means a strong and systematic regulation of the acquisition of matter, and therefore we believe that the applicant doubts the appropriateness of the individual provisions of the applicable law are not convincing enough. Most of the acquisitions have also taken place in an appropriate and transparent manner, in accordance with the rules and also economically effective manner after the law has been enacted. Indeed, there have been exceptions, but speculation, courtship, and conduct at the border of legality appear before or after such a well - prepared law. As regards specific proposals for the adoption of certain provisions of the applicable law, it would therefore be appropriate to amend other provisions of the law accordingly. We therefore assess that the proposaler has not consistently violated the amendment and the amendment of the law, which is why we are dissuading support for the amendment under consideration. While the proposal results in good solutions that would be worth supporting in the preparation of the law so far. Thus, Article 1 of the proposal merely wishes to clarify the situation which will arise if the tenderer does not make a bid within a reasonable period of time, since, under the current regime, the penalty applies only to the case of withdrawal of the intention, but there is no provision for any effect or sanction, not even in criminal provisions, in the case of failure to issue an offer. The proposed possibility of obtaining securities outside the acquisition procedure means a complete departure from the current absolute ban on the purchase of securities in such a way and also a return to the previous legal arrangements allowing such purchases. Indeed, the current regime is impractical because it does not guarantee transparency, because there are always "slapped men" who will buy, which is therefore worse for small shareholders. The existing provision to the acquirer is also not fair because others will buy outside the offer. Therefore, despite the conclusion that the proposal is conceptually not bad and it would be worth considering the proposed solutions, we will support the Committee's decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration, because, given the inconsistencies found in the preparation of the amendment, we are assessing that the law currently in force is more appropriate to regulate the area of acquisition.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will discuss the proposal for a decision, Mr Mag. Squeakle, procedural question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. It's content. The Group of Social Democrats estimates that this is an important issue. In view of the very schedule of the National Assembly’s work, it seems that the government has not signed up for the word. Okay, well, we haven't heard from the Home Committee report today, so my procedural proposal is as follows. To the extent that a third of the Members do not object to giving the floor to the representatives of the Government. The secretary of state is here with us. It is not very often that he is with us, even when they are more important themes, and I think it is a really important question. The Slovenian public needs to hear what the Government has to say about this takeover law. We know that the position of the Government is negative, we have here the State Council, which is proposing the law, we have a government that opposes, we have a few different opinions and I think that before the conclusion of the debate it would be good if Members and Members do not object to this, that only a word to the representatives of the Government, that they also present the reasons why they feel it is not necessary to go into a change of law. In fact, if we were to change the law, at least one problem would be solved. Furthermore, we hope that the Government will come in one way or another with complementary substantive changes to the takeover law, because the practice of the first six months of the implementation of the new law and in particular the preparations for the takeover - we heard at the Istrabenz Assembly yesterday, formal decisions were taken to prepare for the takeover of Istrabenz. Don't think the 400,000 Euro Prize is something other than a deposit on banks for taking credit, for calling, for taking over. A little joke, a little bit. We believe that there are legitimate reasons for the Government to tell us what the Government thinks about the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the takeover law and, secondly, how the Government assesses the situation in the preparation of the takeovers, especially in the light of what the President of the Government has said a few days ago, that during this term he will argue that the state will no longer have significant stakes in companies in the next term. This can only be done in accordance with Slovenian positive legislation by taking over in a year and a half in all companies where the state still owns, either directly or indirectly. However, it is only right that we ask the Secretary of State to speak to us about this, but it is particularly in her second function. She is the President of the Supervisory Board of the Capital Society of Pensions and Disability Insurance, let us not forget, and thus directly worry about 10% of the assets that this company has in Slovenian companies, including in Istria. We saw at the assembly yesterday that the government proposal did not go "through". Please, if we give her that word, if a third doesn't object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u17	Thank you very much. On the basis of Article 134, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President of the Council of State Janez Sušnik has given an additional explanation of the bill. Under the same Article and the rules of procedure, since the Government is not proposing the law on this point, it has no say. He also has no word from his mother's working body. So much for the explanation. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda or at the latest at 18.15 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, that is to say, the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the establishment of public interest in culture, the reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you are, Mrs. Jelka Pirkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u18	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr President! Before you is the third review of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, following a reduced procedure. As you already know from the previous rounds and the debate on the committee, the purpose of the Government in this amendment is to remedy some shortcomings and inconsistencies in the cultural law. That is why this law is also a matter of swift procedure. The reasons that you probably already know, which led the Government as a proponent in proposing these amendments, are as follows. The first reason is to harmonise the provisions of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture with the Law on Offences, the Law on Income and the Law on Tax Procedure, and indirectly to harmonise with the Constitutional Court’s decision on Article 45 of the ZUIK, as well as to facilitate the operation of all the departments bound by the law in operation, as the Court of Auditors has pointed out in its reports. At the same time, we went against the messages of the representative trade unions in our area, particularly the Gloss and the SWIZ, on the issues of the relevance of the linkage of the cultural sphere to the Law on Public Servants, by following their comments that it would be more appropriate to specify the appeal instance in labour disputes. We have also followed the purpose of 'friendly administration', by making it more clear in the law that the State Administration is obtaining official information to prove in administrative procedures directly, rather than demanding them from those exercising a certain right. We also wanted to achieve greater clarity of action in the field of international relations in culture, which is particularly current now, during the preparation and implementation of the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union, and in greater concern for the Slovenian language. Last but not least, to level the conditions for the availability of public infrastructure facilities at national and municipal level. In short, all these changes in our conviction lead to a reduction in procedures, the coordination or reaction of national authorities and local authorities, and our proposals are coordinated to a greater extent, as far as possible, with both representative trade unions in the field of culture. The main solutions are, of course, the following: Article 3 deletes the provision of the current Article 31 of the ZUJIK, on the basis of which the Council's programme of work of the public institution is approved. While such a provision already exists in the Public Finance Act and other articles of the ZUJIK. The removal of the above text, however, means that the Court of Auditors cannot qualify such financing for an offence because otherwise it could lead to disruptions in the functioning or financing of such public institutions. However, it is clear from another legislation that the transfer is directly based on a decision or contract and not on the approval of the programme in the public administration world. Article 4 adds a new explicit competence to the Councils of Public Institutions, which is otherwise laid down in Article 42 ZUJIK. As previously said, it is possible to decide on complaints in labour disputes, which we believe will contribute to greater clarity and legal certainty for employees. Such jurisdiction, in our belief, the world actually has such a power that its interpretative proof would be very difficult, so it is better if this standard is explicitly written in law. In fact, the applicant did not follow the demands of trade unions in order to complement the composition of councils in public institutions with fewer than 20 employees in this work. As you know, ZUJIK combines the functions of the board of institutions and professional councils in these cases, or I apologize for extending this arrangement to public institutions with more than 20 employees. We were, of course, led by an open initiative of the SVIZ, which sparked a constitutional dispute and before the Constitutional Court decides in this case, the proposer proposes that we do not amend this legislative provision, which provides for the composition of councils in institutions that have more than 20 employees. This is also related to Article 45 of the Law, which makes sense in matters of employment to refer to the application of the provisions of the Public Servants Act. In fact, the unions object to such links if they are heterogeneous content or aspects of employment in a culture that cannot be compared with the work and position of public servants, for example in the state administration. The applicant therefore intended to delete the whole article first, which would otherwise have been possible under Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because a constitutional assessment had been initiated. However, the Constitutional Court then pronounced itself and deleted only a few words of this article, which can only be understood by the fact that the article is constitutionally undeniable. Therefore, the proposer did not follow this proposal of trade unions in this part. Article 8 complements Article 73 of the ZUIK, adding the possibility that the State may hand over to the municipal public administration, which does not, of course, mean owning its part of the public cultural infrastructure without a call for tender. On the contrary, it is possible after the present law, which is not logical. In principle, the call for a public tender is the best solution, but in practice it appears in certain cases that it is a very complicated bureaucratic procedure that makes it difficult to carry out the exercise by reason of reason. And that kind of solution actually seems rational to us. Article 11 of the ZUIK complements Article 85, in which case, as already mentioned above, it is necessary to take into account the changes in tax legislation that favoured self-employed persons here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I'm asking the chairman of the committee, mags. Grims to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! On 16 May, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, at its 23rd session, discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the exercise of public interest in culture. He took note of the proposal and its explanation, saying that it is mainly a matter of coordination with other laws and of respect for the other legal principles in force. He also took note of the position of the legal service and adopted some amendments on this basis. The most receptive debate was certainly held by Doro Hvalica, who warned on behalf of the Council of State that in 2002 a very bad law had been passed, which placed employees in public institutions in the field of culture in a discriminatory position. From this point of view, he supported some of the proposed amendments, but its support for Article 4 was only conditional because he felt that the proposed solution was not the best solution and could lead to some other problems. With regard to the rest, the substance had already been presented before, which was also opened at the meeting itself, so let me just say that an amendment was also proposed at the meeting itself, which would mean deleting certain articles but was not adopted. However, it was also proposed to extend the time taken for the individual to determine whether his or her work constitutes a specific cultural contribution, in order to extend that period from the proposed three years to five years. This proposal has also been rejected by arguing that the three-year period in the law is also foreseen for some other solutions in this law, such as when they can be linked to the proposed period, so it has remained a three-year period. In the end, only amendments were adopted, which in fact followed the comments of the Legal Service of the National Assembly. The text of the SD Group's amendment to Article 4 has not been adopted, but the whole law with the proposed text and the amendments adopted has been approved and I propose to the National Assembly that this text, which has been drafted, should also be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bevk has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The main reason for the amendment of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture is that, according to the proposaler, compliance with the new legislation, the Law on Offences, on Income, on the Tax Procedure and on the General Administrative Procedure. In addition, some other minor shortcomings, editorial corrections of a technical nature and so on are expected to be remedied by this novel. In addition, it has been particularly pointed out that this law in practice causes quite a number of problems and the Ministry is predicting more extensive changes. However, the fact is that the proposaler is not only in line with the newly adopted legislation, but also in the direction of individual starting points of law, additional cultural activities, financing, composition and powers of the councils in the institutions, the powers of the state and so on. It is said that there are relatively significant changes, although the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law states otherwise, which also warranted a reduced procedure. In the second reading of the Group of Social Democrats, we took the addition of the Council of State and proposed that the public institution should have a council composed of the same number of representatives of the founder, representatives of the employees of the institution and representatives of users or the public concerned. According to the current regulation, the Council is composed exclusively of representatives of the founder, appointed by the founder of experts in the field of work of the public institution, finance and legal matters. We are social Democrats with an amendment, which, unfortunately, has not been adopted on the Committee, we wanted to provide the public cultural institution with a tripartite composition of the worlds, because we consider this to be a very important fact for achieving public interest in culture. Such arrangements already have cultural institutions with less than 20 employees and other activities, if I only mention education and health care. This would also avoid inappropriate solutions in the amendment of the law, so that the founder, through the Council of the Public Institute, decides on complaints against his previous decisions. The solution, as brought by the novelty, that the competence of the appellant authority should be conferred on the world of the institution, which is fully appointed by the founder, is inadequate, since this would mean that the appellant body is itself the founder, which would be the denial of democratic principles and positive practices in other comparable activities. Of course, we support the solution in the novel, to include the application and development of the Slovenian language as the first cultural policy in the national cultural programme. There are also some other solutions that are not considered the most, or that are found in the law because of the very specific problems that need to be addressed. In this way, part of the public infrastructure without a call for tender could be submitted to management as a new one. This would specifically address the problem of the Bled Castle, which the state was to place in the administration of the municipality, as promised by the President of the Government a long time ago, without a call for tender. In this way, if the most rational use of public cultural infrastructure is actually ensured, this can be a good solution. However, there is a great potential for abuse in this solution. It also simplifies the conditions for co-financing projects that could not be planned in advance. This solution was supposed to be in the law, so at least we heard on the Committee on Culture, because one of Slovenia's eminent cultural creators forgot to report his project to the appropriate institution in time. The Social Democrats Group will not oppose the law, as it nevertheless brings harmonisation and solves some minor inconsistencies now in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Školč has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues! Indeed, this law brings a series of harmonisations that are urgently needed, under the pretext that they are minor corrections, and it brings a number of vital steps into the marriage. He was just talking about the work of his colleague Bevk, and I would like to say in particular what those two changes are, which I think are unacceptable and which are a step backwards, about regulating the things that need to be regulated by this law. One is the amendment to Article 5, which has not yet been discussed today. The new arrangement proposed by the Ministry and supported by the Committee will result in a reduction in the number of cultural programme managers. That's definitely bad. It is bad because the ministry and the committee do not trust individuals to be able to implement cultural programmes and more extensive matters. All serious cultural activities are not ultimately based on individuals, their work, their invention and so on. The Ministry is essentially favouring institutions, favouring different societies, and I do not know what else, but those basic subjects of culture and art do not consider as able to organise and take responsibility for larger projects. That's extremely bad. The second thing that I think is controversial is the amendment to Article 62, which is here in Article 6 of this Law. Perhaps the Secretary of State has explained that this is what is called facilitating the operation of the station. I believe, however, that this amendment, which is made by this Article, essentially repeals the invitation to tender, because it can allow a person, if he has friends at the Ministry, to exercise special circumstances and to obtain funds, beyond the invitation to tender. This is certainly not good in terms of equal access to public funds and it is not good in terms of the fact that great will can be established. I asked the Minister on my own committee if it was true that the Slovenian mother had missed her application for this invitation and that, therefore, virtually everyone had not yet obtained the relevant conclusions. As far as I know, they don't even have them right now, the ones who signed up for this part. The Ministry for this novel receives a legal basis to cover what would otherwise be called the "slamparium" of the applicant. If it turns out that this will be the basis for the fact that, in this case and in this call, what the rules in force so far have not allowed will also withstand this thesis that, in fact, the Minister and his team will fully privatise the funds in a way that is one rule for friends and another for friends. This is certainly not a good solution and is a big step back from what means transparency of business and equal accessibility to public funds. The month will see whether our fears have been justified or not, and then expect that if so, we will require the minister to be responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Ms Marjetka Uhan has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, thank you very much. The current Act on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture of 2002 has proved to be flawed in its implementation in practice, while at the same time it needs to be aligned with certain other laws, namely the Offences Act, the Income Act, the Tax Procedure and the General Administrative Procedure Act. The proposed novels are the proposed amendment to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, which will address the unnecessary problems that arise in practice in the implementation of this law and are also clearer and more appropriately defined by this proposal. Above all, we are talking about changes when the Ministry of Public Culture can allocate funds even before the Council of the Institute approves the programme, as otherwise, programmes that are of wider importance to the public could not be implemented in the world of the institution. For example: The Slovenian Philharmonic or any similar institution cannot operate without funds for which it would be entitled under the applicable law only after the previous approval of the programme of the Council of Institutions, which could also be at great delay. At that time, without funds, the public institution could have collapsed, which, of course, must not be allowed. In New Slovenia, we agree that the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture should be more systematic and even more in-depth amendment, which will require greater change and greater, broader debate. This time, however, improves the necessity that the law can be implemented in practice, so the New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u28	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the bill's proposal because it eliminates certain shortcomings and aligns it with the Offences Act, the Income Act and other amended legislation, and taking into account the proposal by the proposer that this novelty will be followed by deeper changes and additions. We also support the additions, i.e. the amendments of the four groups of Members. In the Slovenian People's Party we believe that Slovenian culture must live in every Slovenian place and not only in major cities. However, both traditional and fan culture must have the right conditions for the existence and development, as well as the operators of these. It certainly seems positive to us that self-employed persons in culture are protected in the event of parental leave or hospital stock, so that the right to social security contributions on a proposal from the beneficiary may be extended for a period of parental leave or hospital stock over 30 working days. Therefore, the three-year period should be extended for a period when the beneficiary cannot create due to parental leave or hospital stock. However, other options for protection against the loss of creativity from other unforeseen causes must be examined by the applicant in preparing fundamental substantive changes and in supplementing the law. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are particularly pleased to support the new Article 2 indent, which specifically mentions Slovenian language in the initial reference to areas of public interest for culture, as we must be aware that the language is inseparably linked to our public interest and to a culture that is undoubtedly closely linked to the existence of the Slovenian people. We therefore welcome the new provision that the country also finance those public cultural programmes and cultural projects that are specifically aimed at ensuring the intense presence of Slovenian culture in the world and at enriching Slovenian culture with the achievements of global cultures. We agree with the opinion of the Government, which, in response to the State Council's comments, explains that self-employed people in culture are not excluded, namely by deleting the third indent of Article 58 of the Law, by participating in the implementation of public cultural programmes, as they can, and in fact very often, participate in the implementation of programmes implemented by qualified holders of public cultural programmes. It is the fact that the Government considers that self-employed people in culture are actually unable to assume and carry out the responsibilities of holders of public cultural programmes defined by this law as a cultural activity, which is concluded in terms of content and scope, and is carried out by a cultural operator whose activities are in the public cultural interest to the extent that the State or the local community finances it in a comparable way as a public institution. We also believe that further amendments to this law would be helpful in examining the composition of the Council, which is the subject of a constitutional assessment, since the composition of the Council is also linked to the powers of that body, as provided for by law. In principle, we advocate an equal composition, the same number of representatives of the founders, representatives of the employees of the institution and representatives of users or of the interested public - as we have advocated in public institutions such as schools and kindergartens. We also agree with the Government's rationale for ensuring quality legal protection for cultural workers, on the fact that employees in the field of culture are civil servants and that they comply with the principle of subsidiarity of the application of the Regulation applies the Labour Relations Act and the Public Administration Act. For the reasons set out in Article 8, the most rational use of public cultural infrastructure and the implementation of public cultural programmes and projects are also supported by the provision of Article 8 of the Law so that, without a call for tender, they can be turned over to the use of public cultural infrastructure. It is only a provision that complements in the law the already existing opportunities for rational management and the full benefit of public cultural infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u30	Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, respectable young people and others. ZUJIK is a roof law, so it is called, and therefore a slightly more comprehensive view and a historical framework that is needed to mention it. In fact, the credibility of the day-to-day, as well as the eligibility of our interpretation readings against the Minister of Culture; the better, cheaper, and more plural RTV programme is missing, there is also no third programme; the digitisation money is used for the licences of entertainment shows a la Pyramid and for the scenes of new, increasingly poor-looking information shows. The personnel are replaced, gone, or afraid and silent. Our taxes are paid as if balanced media, and aid to audiovisual production is neglected. A new way of regulating corrections kills editorials, including those who once agreed with it. The Kobile Lipica has received an answer in the Constitutional Court. The film fund has neither a new law nor smart leadership nor a programme for this year, even though it has been over for six months. Would an economic company or a public agency allow itself not to know in June what it will do by the end of the year and what it should be doing at the beginning of the year? In short, to shorten and stress what the Minister is correcting with the amendments to this law, ZUJIK. For today he is correcting what he was denying yesterday when we were interpreting him. We read to him that he had not received a public invitation to manage the castle and that he had signed a harmful contract with the manager of the castle. At the time, the minister said that he had not broken the law, but now he is changing it, and that is exactly where he broke it, because he had no basis to turn the Blaze castle into management without a prior invitation to tender. By changing this part of the ZUJIK in order to end the previous invitation to tender when it comes to the administration of a public institution, the minister tells us that he was then acting in violation of the law. Why else would I change the law? In order to be able to come across any further evidence that might lower his mandate. This solution is not the most brilliant, even though it looks practical. For example, two public institutions are taking note of and already have, that is to say national and local or national, and can already move on to the management of one or the other. However, this can exclude all those who could also manage public property in a competent, economic and competitive manner. Who says public institutions are the best? And one more thing. The amendment of this law also provides for the possibility that the Minister may exceptionally finance projects which could not be planned and therefore have not been notified to the public tender. What does that mean? This means that the minister can share some kind of intervention funds, but this option already has, when he has a so-called ministerial reserve, not a safe one. Definitely not safe. Another fund like that, I'm not saying it's a line, it's more public, and it's going to be legal, another fund that can hide the will to make decisions. I am sorry that you have not listened to my proposal on the parent board that for independent cultural workers, who are certainly one of the most vital pillars of creativity, their uniqueness should be evaluated over a period of five years rather than three years as the law brings. Certainly not a major change in the law, but not a conceptual one at all. It means the Ministry is satisfied with the law that was passed five years ago. However, in those minor changes, there can still be enough fatal movements. Personally, I would like the law to correct the anomaly with which, in the former Liberal Democracy, we were also dissatisfied when the law was passed in 2002, but the Minister was stubborn enough and insisted on her own. The formation of the Council of Public Institutions will therefore remain the same as it was in the Government's excessive hands and without representatives of employees. It is true that this would mean a lot of other changes, but if the ministry had enough will, political will and other things, it could do so. But he's not in the mood. Of course not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The basic objective of the law is to remedy those legal solutions which, due to the shortcomings or inadmissibility of legislative changes in other areas that have already taken place, are in short the problems in their implementation. So, the government itself wrote that with the proposed amendments it wants to supplement the law and enable normal work, but also predicts a comprehensive solution to this problem with the new law. Why, then, do we accept this law if we have a new marriage on these benches in two months? I think so! How lame the laws are passed in the National Assembly proves the inanimateness of this law. And of course, what bothers us most is that it is a matter of deleting, that in fact independent cultural operators will not participate in or make it impossible for them to run on public cultural programmes. I see here again some degradation of people who are striving to fill the cultural space with the self-initiative they are working in this area and have also been recognised by the Government as a cultural worker. And if we look at the law below: once again, as my predecessors have already mentioned, the interlocutors - essentially insists that certain matters will be submitted by a caller or a contract signing in the implementation of the one they want without a call for infrastructure renewal. Aren't there laws in public procurement in Slovenia that we have to adhere to? Even greater values must be subject to audit or audit procedures. In this marriage, the minister allows himself to do so in his own way. Of course, we will not oppose this law, but we would like to warn the founders of the new law, which they predict will be almost in trouble, to take this into account, and that these marital irregularities and also to legalise their way of work, which I believe, as Mrs Maja Shirca has already said, are becoming illegal. There is simply no person in Slovenia who can assign a personal likeness to someone a job; and this is what the Minister of Culture will do today; of course, because the law will be confirmed, like all others who need to be confirmed. And that we have a special concern for Slovenian language in this law! Yes, this should be the basic guide of the Slovenian government, without experiencing today the facts that are present that we have on national television, on a regional programme that we are all paying for, 70% of the Italian language on a programme that is not even subtitled by Slovenian subtitles. I've repeatedly warned the government to do this - but it won't! We have Italians - yesterday we talked about a law that rapes us with their frequency of video and audio broadcasts on frequencies allocated to Slovenian television stations, but the government or the appropriate ministry does not respond. And of course in the area of culture we also have other things that we expect to be better arranged, national monuments, cultural heritage, Lipica has already been mentioned today, which are already a disgrace to Slovenia. This law, however, will allow for even greater non-compliance, because all that is maintained and stately, including cultural monuments and cultural heritage, will be able to be restored by those to whom the Minister will assign this honor. This will also show in the implementation of this law, in essence, that the Constitutional Court may wish to give an opinion on this article, because I believe that this will be illegal if you accept it. In short, the law in certain changes is positive because it is necessary because there are so many new laws, and it harmonises, essentially facilitates work or eliminates nonsense, but the new law requires that what has been said today be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state, a nice greeting to the visitors on the balcony! After five years of legislation in force, the proposal eliminates the inconsistencies arising from legislative changes in other areas. Individual provisions shall be amended and supplemented for reasons of adaptation to the Income, Tax and General Administrative Procedure Act. In all these cases, there are less difficult but urgent corrections. Some of the changes proposed are more substantively complex, however, they can be addressed and adopted in this shorter process. We are certainly pleased that the initial orientation of the areas of public interest for culture also includes the care of Slovenian language, as it is an important element of Slovenian cultural identity. We also absolutely agree with the provision of financial support to those cultural programmes and projects that ensure the presentation and implementation of Slovenian culture in the world. With regard to the envisaged new function of the Council of the Office, i.e. that the Council of the Public Institution becomes an appellant for labour disputes, we believe that respect should be given to the Constitutional Court’s decision and its explanation in relation to the reference to the application of the Law on Public Servants and the Labour Relations Act, which are applied subsidiaryly, unless the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture provides otherwise as a specific law. However, the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture refers to the collective agreement on cultural activities in relation to the decision-making of labour relations, under which the Council of the Institute actually already has that responsibility. Perhaps it would make more sense to think about setting up a special impartial committee for complaints from the employment relationship, as set up by individual State bodies for public servants, in view of the open issue concerning the composition of the Office's Council. The following provision of the proposal, which was also discussed extensively, refers to the possibility of the local community or the State giving part of the public cultural infrastructure to the management of a public cultural institution with a contract, without a call for tender, provided that the most rational use of this infrastructure is provided. We believe that two substantive points are important here - that the use of public cultural infrastructure is as rational as possible and that it is used only in accordance with the public cultural interest. However, rational use could best be ensured by selecting the best bidder on the market, but we agree with the proposer that the public cultural interest can only be guaranteed to the greatest extent through a public institution in the field of cultural and economic activities or other activities. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a law, but we expect, in view of the government's assurances, that more detailed adaptations to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture are being prepared, so that some specific comments from the State Council will be included in the consideration and also taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Branko Marinič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and distinguished visitors here on the Tribunal. Well, I don't want to talk about and represent the Media Act, which is what respected colleague Majda Shirca did, and I don't want to talk about the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, but to present a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, which, as it is said, follows a reduced procedure. The legislative proposal is proposed to be dealt with after the shortening of the procedure and is justified by a commercial provision that there are fewer difficult amendments and supplements to the law, which mainly address the shortcomings that have caused problems in practice in the implementation of the law so far. The main reason for amending and supplementing the law is to comply with the Offences Act, which introduces fines instead of fines, with the Income Act, the Tax Procedure Act and the General Administrative Procedure Act. The basic aim of the law is to correct those legal solutions which, due to a lack of or non-adaptation to legislative changes and in other areas, needlessly cause problems in their implementation and should therefore be defined more clearly and more appropriately. The main solutions, which are minor corrections, are: Article 31 of the ZUJIK provides that the basis for the transfer of funds from the budget of the State or the local community is the work programme approved by the Council, because the basis for the payment from the budget is in accordance with the public financial rules, the decision of the Ministry of Culture or the contract; the obligation to approve the financial plan and programme of work of the public institution is clearly defined in Article 26 of the Public Finance Act and in Articles 35 and 42 of the ZUJIK. In order to comply with the Income Act, the income tax is newly determined on the basis of the annual income assessment decisions and other tax decisions and the tax deduction calculation data. On the basis of a written request, the Ministry of Culture shall obtain that information from the competent tax authority. In order to effectively exercise the rights and duties of the independent profession of cultural work and to recognise the right to pay social security contributions from the State budget, the data currently collected in the register of self-employed persons in culture, as provided for in Article 89, shall not be sufficient. For the purpose of the smooth acquisition and transmission of data between public administrations, a single home number should also be entered and a tax number should be entered in order to determine the income price. At the same time, the law also defines the purpose of data collection. In view of the decision of the Constitutional Court, which, by a decision of 11.1.2007, deleted part of the text in Article 45 of the ZUJIK, the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the ZUJIK in Article 42 will also clearly define the role of the Council of the Public Institution as appeal instances for labour disputes. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will also support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the realization of public interest in culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the draft law in the context of a reduced procedure. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda or at the latest at 18.15. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - FIRST DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR SERVICE IN THE SLOVENIA ARMY. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of 14 Members with the first-signed Mr Mirano Potrče requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I welcome the representatives of the government! And I give my word to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Karl Erjavec has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! The proposal for a service law in the Slovenian Army means the achievement of one of the key objectives of this mandate. We want to improve the status of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Between 1999 and 2003, the Slovenian Army's troops fell radically, from 78 thousand to about 14 thousand. From the recruitment system, we switched to a professional army with a contractual reserve. This resulted in a process of reshaping the military organisation, which was not followed at the same time by legislation on the status of members and military service. The new Defence Act 2002 and 2004 incorporated in the law more than 50 articles with various legal provisions resulting from specific requirements of military work, which are still insufficient. A number of insights on how to resolve individual issues of the professional army have been gained, in particular in the last three years, when we are actually establishing a professional army and when the legal regime already constitutes a restriction on the development of the Slovenian Army. As part of the drafting of this law, we have tried to harmonise the technical transposition of labour provisions from the defence law into the service law in the Slovenian Army, at the stage of coordination within the framework of the Development Partnership. Such a law would certainly be more transparent, even more technically transparent, but no consensus was reached. Therefore, the current proposal for a service law in the Slovenian Army was put into the legislative process. It would make no sense, therefore, to propose a law for which there would be no support in Parliament. The Defence Act, as you know, requires 2/3 of the majority of Members present. Your Honor! In the Proposal for a Service Law in the Slovenian Army, we have drawn up a key issue of military service, taking into account a number of initiatives under the Provoj project. This is a special project that has been launched at the time of the introduction of the professional army. We have also carried out several rounds of inter-resort coordination, the longest being coordination with the Ministry of Public Administration, which is linked to the situation in the implementation of the new wage system in the public sector. Dr. Prebilič and Dr. Jelusič from the Faculty of Social Sciences also participated in the coordination under the Partnership for Development. Let me say that most of their proposals have been taken into account. The law was also aligned with two representative trade unions in the Ministry and one union had unrealistic requirements. He demanded a 20% increase for all members of the Slovenian Army. In view of the situation in this society - we know what is happening in the negotiations with the other unions - we have assessed that these requirements are unrealistic. The law provides the basis for addressing key current issues in the military, as also confirmed by experts. We have also begun to prepare the necessary implementing rules in parallel, and in the coming period we will continue preparations for amending the Defence Act. What is essential in the bill? The law regulates fundamental relations in the military service, which we have regulated only by the rules of service so far, and this is not an unnecessary interference with military autonomy, but rather the role and position of an individual in a military organisation, his rights and obligations which deserve legal regulation. We were able to see the importance of basic service relations in the 18th battalion of the RKB and the military police. We have given special attention to the principles of equality, equal accessibility and protection of human rights and their dignity. The law provides the basis for regulating one of the key problems, these are too low wages in the Slovenian Army. In the future, the military will be an integral part of the public sector. Baseline wage classes will be determined by a collective contract for the public sector. The government has already established that this is instead of the current 16th and 17th pay grade, the lowest grades currently among the uniformed public servants, namely, the Government has designated 20th salary grade for soldiers, i.e. the same as for the other uniformed in the public sector, police officers, firefighters, guards and enforcers. The allocation of formation duties to wage classes will be carried out by a government regulation and not by a collective agreement of activities. It will also be possible to pay units for increased burdens and increased workload. The law provides for the management of certain, in particular demanding formational duties in three titles, allowing for more adequate payment, in particular of deficit personnel. Here we also think of pilots in the Slovenian Army and other deficient personnel such as informatics that I do not list all. A real increase in salaries is crucial to halting negative human resources trends that began last year in completing the units. At this point, the deficit has already moved over 500 members. That is why the government has already enabled 18% of wages to be increased in April, depending on the basic number of workers working and operating in the transferable and responsive forces. The Defence Act lays down specific conditions for the professional performance of military service; for example, work in special working conditions, working hours, its allocation, unequal distribution of working time, the performance of guards, duty stations and other legal matters specifically regulated by the specific requirements of military service. In the service law, however, the individual solutions that I mentioned were complementary, such as working hours during military service outside the country, availability, work at home, and so forth. It shall also specify the period by which the military person is raised when he fulfils all the prescribed conditions. It is important that the Service Law establishes an autonomous scholarship system to complete the permanent and contractual composition. I repeat again, even for a permanent composition, because it was mentioned in the public that only members of the contractual reserve would be eligible, which of course they do not. The system will be separate from the State Administration Scholarship System, and training will be considered in various trainers and simulators as an integral part of the training for the performance of formational duties, which has so far been a particular problem, in particular for aviation and radar personnel. A soldier who will be an addition to the age of 45 and who is no longer able to perform military service has, under the Defence Act, the right to be deployed to an appropriate job in the Ministry or to another state authority or to a retraining for a civil profession that may last for up to three years. By law on service in the Slovenian Army, we extend these possibilities and allow a military person to work with any employer who has the right to refund contributions to a military person for the first three years if he employs a military person for five years or for the first years if he employs him for 10 years. Contributions may be paid directly to military personnel, provided that this makes it possible to self-employed, for those military persons who have been in the Ministry for at least 10 years to be eligible for a period of up to 5 years of insurance, as is the case for over-employed workers under the law governing pension and disability insurance. The Defence Act already allows disabled workers in the military to be deployed outside operational units for up to five years and then treated according to the general rules. In the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, we also provided for disabled persons with all the listed possibilities of re-employment, which are prescribed for a soldier who has reached 45 years of age and is no longer able to perform military service. The Service Act in the Slovenian Army also provides for the first time comprehensive care of members and their family members during the duration of military service and even after the end of service. This is a matter of health, psychological, social welfare, spiritual care, and other areas. We have also expanded the insurance of members due to the accident of military service in peace in the event of temporary loss of working capacity. The news is also a free medical emergency, which includes emergency medical care during military service. In doing so, members have the right to receive prior treatment and to receive priority rehabilitation, and we will also ensure this if necessary through specific contracts with the public health service. Family members shall also have the right to preventive health measures if the member is posted to the Joint Command and Units or to an international organisation. In the light of the specific working conditions of the bridging and reaction forces, it is also envisaged for members to determine the medical capacity for military service through authorised doctors. Also new is the right to reduce the non-profit rent for a work apartment or to subsidize the rent if a member moves closer to the place of employment than 20 km. After the cessation of military service, a military person may also conclude a contract of service in the reserve. The law specifically regulates the rights of retired members. In short, integrated care is a development that we have drawn up on the basis of the experience and visions of the needs arising from the operation of the professional army and also on the basis of experience from foreign professional armies. The Service Act in the Slovenian Army at the moment is the starting point for regulating the most current issues of the further development of the Slovenian Army. Some estimate that the law does not solve much. According to them, the law should set specific salaries for all categories of military personnel, career paths and the like, which are totally contrary to the real situation and opportunities in that country. Just look at the negotiations on the pay system. In particular, they stressed the urgency of the immediate reduction of the military and the introduction of the professional army a long time ago. The professionalisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces is a process that I claim to be guided in the right direction, as confirmed by, for example, the affirmation of the 10th Motorised Battalion, the assessments we receive for the participation of our units and members in missions, in alliances and so forth. I estimate that the Service Law is now an essential basis on which to build further development of the military. However, it will certainly be necessary to further develop legislation, including the revision of the Defence Act and the drafting of new implementing rules. Nevertheless, the establishment of planned military capabilities and modernisation will also have to continue. I therefore propose that you also support the law in order to continue the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u40	Your Honor! This is a law that has raised enormous expectations in the public, especially among members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, as well as those who are connected in one way or another. Sadly, he brought just as many or more disappointments. When we listen to the comments of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces when we read some articles, comments, it is actually surprising that after more than two and a half years, after the Minister said on 30 November 2004, "One of the first urgent and priority tasks of the Ministry and Government will be the adoption of the Service Law in the Slovenian Army. Of course, he also said at that time that he would ensure that soldiers, officers, in short, servants in the Slovenian Army would not be public servants - that he failed to keep his word, it was not worth mentioning anyway. For this is so-called daily knowledge. This is the position of the Group of Members. Moreover, after the government has also had in the programme that this will be one of the priorities - do not worry Mr Sok, we will support the law because we are aware that something needs to be done. It is incomprehensible, however, that you, the SDS, DeSUS and SLS, do not support the amendment of the Defence Act. The Minister said here today that he did not expect to get two-thirds in Parliament. Whether he has consulted, perhaps he has consulted with partners, I apologize, with the LDS Group not and would certainly support the law amending the Defence Act if, of course, someone had made an initiative. It wasn't there. Just to say that the marriage won't get back up, it's probably out of place, unless you know you don't have coalition support. And we can probably figure that out, but that's marginal. As it is said, the law has come, it has caused those who are most likely to be most concerned to not be satisfied that it is not expected that the negative trend, which is more than obvious, will stop and that we will be able to achieve the targets in 2010 as planned. Of course, the government no longer insists on achieving these goals. The Chief of Staff is in the weekly Democracy - either the Monthly or the Daily Journal, and I don't even know when it's coming out - but I read this part, which I'm particularly interested in, is already moving this goal to 2012. And if we just look at this year's data by 31 March, you will see: without establishing some state of stability in the military and growth that should be in this year's employment situation, this trend is negative and the number is declining. The fact that the Minister and all those who negotiated within the Government failed to convince other ministers, namely, the Minister of Public Administration, that the service in the Slovenian Army is a special service, a different service, a specific service, and that this should also be dealt with appropriately in Slovenia, as in some other countries. Of course, comparisons are mentioned. It is only a marginal question to compare completely incomparable countries with us and to mention some of the experiences of some other countries, but not to introduce them into the law. What's the comparison? Why refer to some comparisons with non-comparable countries and no experience from those countries that have a tradition that is regulated by this relationship and where the military profession is valued and in particular rewarded? It is not only "verbat", it is not possible to agitate on the labour market, you are joining the Slovenian Army, because it is not just a profession, it is something more. Yeah, it's more than that. But in the beginning, what we all work for: is pay, regulated status when it comes to careers, regulated status when it comes to transporting to work, is regulated status, for all issues. Talk a little, follow a little what they talk about, what they recommend, which is suggested by those who deal with it. I'm afraid there's no such thing in this marriage. I hope that, at the second reading with the Ministry, with the General Staff and with all the others, we will listen to the experts, listen to those concerned, and also correct the law. It's tragic that we read and watch almost every day a gap between professions or, I'll say, between individual public servants. And this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence, the responsibility of those who served the Slovenian Army and those who are in charge of strengthening, coordinating and regulating the human resources in this area. It's really not nice to hear cops say soldiers don't belong there; when soldiers say cops don't go there; when they want to get rid of doctors when they want to get judges out of a system, etc. At this point, I believe that this law has gone forward primarily because something moves, and this is commendable, but I do not think it will be able to resolve the issues which have also led to the proposal. And when a person is actually following this area of state policy, many questions are raised. I am firmly convinced when I look at all the comparable countries or even the uncomparable countries; all the countries - those in NATO and those not in NATO - are involved in operations, such as the European Union, etc. Then you will see that the fact that we boast that 11% of the soldiers are on a mission is not just a commendable question to me. True, the Slovenian Ambassador to NATO in Brussels said: "Yes, because Slovenian soldiers like to go." Of course they like to go, for in some ways it is compensation for poor status at home! But we are building a system of defence and security of this country in the first place, not that we will have the most qualified, the most, I will say, responsible and prepared soldiers on missions outside, and at home those who will be less qualified and guard the troops and so on. Of course, if part of that money that we also have to spend on the costs that missions cause, were to regulate the status of soldiers and have a primarily capable army at home, satisfied above all - I already said, unfortunately, there is something that women marry for the sake of consciousness, and the other is what it means to survive themselves, family and so on. But, of course, this hearing is not in the Ministry for these reflections. From 5 to 7% is the average, and many countries, richer, longer tradition, with a higher response of citizens and citizens to the profession in the military, but this percentage also has between 1 and 5 but not 11. The answers are here, too. But we can't even have this conversation in the National Assembly. Can you imagine that the National Assembly, as the highest body that accepts the framework, legal, systemic, ultimately also provides money that Members of the ruling coalition vote that they do not want us not to, and that we will not discuss the regulation of the status of soldiers, the regulation of material problems and so on? They did it 14 days ago! Members of the coalition! But we're supervisors, we're the ones who adopt laws like this, we're the ones who accept TRPs, we're the ones who take the budget, and we're the ones who end up taking the reports. But this is a unique case, I think, in 2007 in the world - Joseph Jerovšek and those who go to the interparliamentary union, or those who go to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly - there is not one meeting where this would not be one of the fundamental questions. Last week, for example, on Friday, even Secretary-General Nata specifically highlighted this in Portugal, how important it is to have civilian control of the military, of the services and so on. Not to say that Javier Solana at each rally held in Brussels or elsewhere stresses this dimension, the necessary, necessary dimension of control over these systems. But no, we don't have to do that with most of the government! Why? Why is it getting under the rug? I don't know. But, of course, once again, I stress the points relating to the regulation of the status, the problem of negative trends and the end of the responsibility and role of the National Assembly in helping to ensure that the first security of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will be ensured, that Slovenia will contribute its share when it comes to operations by the European Union or NATO, and not least when it comes to ensuring that individual policies are harmonised in the country. In this area, of course, it is even more important than it is in some other areas. And until this country is recognized and recognized in this National Assembly, what the famous Filipica in 351 before our count said to Athens Demosten when he spoke to them. Then Philip, Alexander the Great, attacked the Greeks. And he said, "Dear Athens, stop dealing with the unimportant things, secure the system, provide the soldiers, provide the money, send them to the front, ensure that they remain there until all the tasks are accomplished, request a report on the money spent and a report from the military commander, what he is doing there." 351 years before our count! In 2007, it is forbidden in the National Assembly to talk about these things, the will of the majority. I am sorry, I believe that the development of democracy is also on track in Slovenia and that as soon as all these things can and will be dealt with in the National Assembly as well. As we say, we will support the law that it goes into further procedure, with the desire and ambition to talk and listen, but as professionally as it sounds, it is not. [[...]] When it's said, two unions are in favour, but one is against, but you also have to look at how united this union of members, how many members and whose structures it represents. If it is said that one of those two unions is a union of employees at the Ministry of Law Support and the law applies primarily to those in the service of the military, then I wonder whether the information which is spoken and produced publicly is also corrected. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u41	Ms Uhan Marjetka has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u42	Thanks again for saying that. In Novi Slovenija, we believe that the Slovenian Army has successfully followed its rather short path since its independence, while also successfully adapting or meeting NATO standards and successfully joining NATO. At the same time, it also went to professionalisation or structural adaptation to new times, new environments, demands and needs, and this also calls for today's adoption of this law. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that the profession of soldier is demanding and that every soldier carries out a difficult, responsible task and that everyone who chooses to take this profession must also count on the risk, the danger, and it is obvious that the work of soldier today is not sufficiently valued and rewarded and probably also because of this the Slovenian Army is abandoned by soldiers, but also by highly educated personnel such as: pilots, informatics and the like. We know that this frame cannot be trained overnight because there is also a great demand for it on the market, it is understandable that they prefer to go where they are paid more or better. With this law we want to settle the missing status issues in this profession. The Service Act in the Slovenian Army lays down the principles of military service and regulates the manner in which the tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces are carried out. It regulates the special rights, obligations and responsibilities of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces in carrying out military service not regulated by the Defence Act. This part of the Act is based on Article 22 of the Law on Public Servants, which provides that professional members of the Slovenian Armed Forces shall be dealt with in a different manner from that regulated by the Law on Public Servants, if necessary because of the specific nature of their duties or for the exercise of specific duties and powers. The purpose of the law is to regulate, inter alia, fundamental relations in the Slovenian Army, which are essential for the conduct of military service, given the fact that the Slovenian Army is filling in with professional members and the contractual reserve, and such a system of replenishment also requires the provision of full care for members, both in terms of the acquisition of candidates during the duration of their military service and after leaving the military. One of the main problems that arises is that working soldiers after 45 years of age cannot stay employed in the Slovenian Army and the law provides for a variety of solutions to aid in the transition to civilian professions after the cessation of military service. It is also a matter of compensation for contributions to civil employers who employ former employers, as well as for the provision of self-employment. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that the law is necessary to continue the development and transformation of the Slovenian Army. It enables further process of professionalization and improves the status of soldiers. The law is also important for completing obligations towards international organisations. We are convinced that the law governs the relations between the state and the military as well as internal relations in the military itself. In the parliamentary group, we will support the bill as well as any proposed solutions that will improve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u44	Dear Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, Chief of General Staff, Mr Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, as far as we are in the Chamber, we all have a nice greeting. I will try to say a few thoughts about the Service Act in the Slovenian Army and read some of the thoughts that I have written down, about which another might be at some other point in the agenda or at some other body of this National Assembly. In Slovenia, in the past, one of the key decisions in the field of the status of Slovenian soldiers was the decision to end the recruitment system and the transition to the professional army. In fact, the introduction of a professional army was a result of the general situation in society and at the same time the need of the Slovenian Army, as greater professionalisation of the military was necessary for the quality of the tasks. As a result, more important or priority units were significantly expanded by the professional army. Before the full membership of Slovenia in relation to then we also adopted a resolution on a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2015. In recent years, a number of legislation has been amended directly to the Slovenian Army, as well as legislation regulating the public administration, the public sector and public servants, including members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The fact that we have received a professional army with a contractual reserve to develop, that Slovenia, as a member of NATO, is present in international operations, that Slovenia engages in other international organisations, requires that the uniform law also regulate the service in the Slovenian Army or service. This arrangement is meaningful in view of the specific characteristics and needs of the Slovenian Armed Forces, as it will ensure systematicness and transparency and will address all issues that need to be addressed but are not contained in other laws. The law must allow for the effective conduct of military service in the Slovenian Army. The Slovenian army has recently paid a lot of attention to the promotion of the service of soldiers and soldiers, especially as a result of lack of professional soldiers or soldiers. We must be aware that the soldier's profession is specific, demanding and, among other things, special in that, at a certain age, an individual soldier has to switch jobs. Moreover, the individual who chooses military service is significantly limited in the case of potential termination contracts in relation to employees in other areas or sectors. Therefore, planned retraining and re-employment after the end of military service is an important area, which must also be effective in allowing a person to actually become employed later in the civil field or in the civil field. Overall concern for the working soldiers is very important for a successful army. The law deals with health, psychological, social welfare, legal aid and legal advice, religious care and organized leisure. In the future, it may be necessary to give a little more attention to public awareness of all the opportunities offered by employment in the Slovenian Army, both positive and negative. Notwithstanding the proposed legal provisions on the Slovenian Army, it is crucial that work in the Slovenian Army is a work for the Republic of Slovenia, which must be carried out in an honorable, professional, lawful manner, taking into account in particular discipline, one eldership and mandatory enforcement of orders. A good soldier can only be someone who is a patriot who wants to serve the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that the profession of a soldier is not particularly appreciated in Slovenia. There are many reasons for this, including the fact that the professional army is new to us and that, of course, without tradition, the profession itself cannot have a high reputation. That the profession of the Slovenian soldier is not appreciated, that sometimes you get the feeling that the Slovenian Army is not appreciated, is a reflection of our willingness to hang the big bell to hang the mistakes or shortcomings that occur in every major site. However, it is difficult for all of us to come together from the mouth of praise or success for a well - done work. Here again, it is necessary to draw attention to the so-called civic and domestic education if we want our citizens to be patriotic, and not least that more people will want to work as a professional soldier or soldier, we need to raise them in this spirit. And I'm not talking about extremes and civic education at all, it's not just about school, it's about family. However, it can begin with the most basic things, such as the rise of the flag at least for a statehood day or a day of independence. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposed law regulates the service in the Slovenian Army in an appropriate manner. In our view, it is a modern law with all the necessary principled solutions, which are a prerequisite for the formation of a good, quality and effective army. However, we expect the new law to make the Slovenian Army even more successful and, in particular, within the framework of international missions, to represent the country that belongs to it with dignity and honour. We therefore believe that the proposed law is suitable for further consideration at the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u46	Good-bye! The first five-year contracts now expire for professional soldiers, after a decision has been made to professionalize our army or better to have soldiers go to work and not to soldiers, as once said. At the time of the fall of this decision, there was great enthusiasm for the service of the country, and today this interest is not so much or worse — it is rapidly falling. At that time, in the beginning, the government opened doors to about 1,000 public servants, to begin with, soldiers and soldiers, today it should be 300, 500, because there are so many of them missing. It is not surprising that the overall enthusiasm has been aroused. In recent times, we have faced a large outflow of personnel from the military, especially the most qualified soldiers and pilots, we have faced many organisational and non-professional problems, problems due to non-professionalism, various excesses, including harassment of members of the Slovenian Army, even denial of these excesses, even though in this case they have been denied equal opportunities. In short, the recruitment crisis, visible through the inability to retain and acquire personnel, is not small, nor is it only own by Slovenia, let's admit. But it is particularly pronounced in Slovenia, although it is not long before the Slovenian Armed Forces, after the level of confidence in the public opinion, even with confidence in the euro, measured it. Today, there are more disappointments, disappointments due to alleged injustices, irregularities, even in advancements, disappointments with organization, relationships in a military organization that are not exemplary enough; and disappointments over working conditions and pay. However, the question of what is going on in the barracks, that soldiers and soldiers are increasingly abandoning them is not irrelevant, and lawmakers may have to have a deeper analysis of this issue than they are; especially because former research, including that research at the Defence Research Institute, shows that individuals at first or once did not, perhaps even today, have not decided on the profession of soldiers and soldiers only for payment or employment, but also for other reasons; for training, knowledge of modern military technology, techniques, travel, opportunities for self-containment and so on. The new one's gonna make it better, higher. Soldiers will be compared with police officers, firefighters and customs officers; however, attention - it is necessary to mention here that it will depend largely on sub-laws, which means that it will always be necessary to negotiate on a new and subsequent basis and not always with the defence minister or not necessarily with any other minister. The higher salaries are supposed to attract new staff, we hear today and also write in a law that does not show enthusiasm for employment in the Slovenian Army. True, it is a specific service, certain specifics that make it difficult for an individual to decide whether to enter a professional military service or not. For example, that the service is available up to 45 years of age - that is to say, not to normal and classical retirement - and that the benefits given to other public servants are only possible during this period, this is certainly a specific specification which - by the way - is known, not in this way, even in other professions. Also, after a certain period of time, a ballet player or an actor may not have the benefit or the specifics of his younger years. Of course, there are risks, both on missions and elsewhere. There is continuous psychophysical training, this is a constant tension in front of possible crisis hotspots, little or no possibility for public confirmation and so on. And here, of course, is the binding available to the Government, which, as I said before, will be defined as the employer of wages. However, the soldiers should be better paid because they risk their lives in their work, but the question is how much this claim, which was repeatedly present in the discussions during this marriage, is that someone who is not willing to risk their lives for 500 euros after receiving 580 or 570 of them will be willing to do so. In short, the height of the salary is important, but it is not the most important decision to make for military service. In short, some would do a job that would fill them with meaning without it, while others would never do it. It is likely that once in the future, if this planet gives us the future at all, we will be faced with the employment of foreign soldiers or another mercenary army. This law has not opened up the matter; it is likely to be the future. Let me also draw attention to this work to the fact that some of the thinking that we join in with it does not bring exactly the comprehensive solutions and the expected and desired ones, especially those expected by the defenders, does not solve all the questions of the career path of the soldiers of all layers, in fact, when the scholarship is transferred to the Ministry, it manages this issue better, but not all of the scholarships are fully regulated, especially for the secondary and professional levels. Nor did it come from known research, including those CRPs and others, and it did not come about by amending the Defence Act. And it also brings some comparisons with the regulation of the status of soldiers in countries that still have a military obligation, but it does not always take as an example or sufficient to sample a country that has a long-standing tradition of military service. But let me ask you something else in this place. I will stop and maybe set a course, which we are not thinking too much about in the National Assembly, perhaps even when these discussions were open, as Mr Anderlich has already said before me. Do Slovenians really need such extensive defense, or do we really need such powerful weapons? Of course, okay, the Military Service Act is required. After all, it is true, normalized and framed every inch of our stay, soon we will also be legalizing when we can dream, what we can dream, and when we can't. We frame ourselves in standards, in mazes where we're losing ourselves, and that's why we're getting smitten. For example, I agree that in this context of standardizing our stay, we need the law; but I wonder if we need so many armies, so many weapons, so many hubbys, so many tanks, so many missions and so many defence protections. I know, it is true, I am opening another, already closed questions, and I also know the answer to this question, which is immediately at hand: then, security, danger and also the peace that provides security. Who I'm supposed to provide! But no matter what, are we not more popes than popes in providing Nate's standards in Slovenia? Are we not willing to give more than we are required or should? We're not throwing money with a suspicious shovel into the weaponry inappropriately more than the frame? The law provides for solutions and incentives for service in the Slovenian Army in 2007, 2008, 2009, if I understand correctly, only EUR 1.36 million, that is to say, almost 330 million old tolars, which is about half of one Patria 8 x 8. If so, why aren't people worth more than things? Why is there no problem in purchasing military equipment, but we face difficulties in paying wages and in adding people? Are we going to have a technique, not people who would use it? Over the next six years, the country plans €755 million of purchases for the needs of the Slovenian Army. Consumption will increase from €26 million this year to € 156 million in 2022. Is it really necessary for us to shine at the top of the world in 2022 with ammunition and machine guns? The lack of interest of young people in the service of the army is normal for my understanding and perhaps in some way expected to say even healthy. But not only because of the risks and demands of this profession, which I mentioned at the outset, but also because of the common views, the state of the spirit, which can not be effectively reduced by the best propaganda and recruitment. The defence in the interests of the country, the alliance and certain other standards are not in the foreground for young people anymore. Maybe they wouldn't be, even if the barracks were equipped with such exemplary and orderly technology, with such exemplary and well-arranged facilities, from training facilities, I'll say, kindergartens. For here is another aspect mentioned by this law, the Law on Service in the Slovenian Army. It is found in the chapter on covering funeral expenses or disability expenses to be settled by the State in the event of an accident or at the time of death. A funeral with military honors doesn't replace life. On the holiday day of the Slovenian Armed Forces, I read in the newspaper of the Ministry of Defence, some young Domen enthusiastically tells how on the day of the Slovenian Army, when he visited the army, he drove with large military cars, probably thin, how they painted him on the face, how they showed him the kid's corner, etc. And how he ended up saying, "When I'm big, I'll be a soldier." Of course, it would have been better if a visit to such a military station had ended by thinking, when I was large, that would not have been necessary for me to be a soldier. But civilization, so annual, but it proves that this day is never here tomorrow. Let me end by saying that, of course, this proposed text will be supported in our parliamentary group by the desire that the ears, which today and elsewhere, not only here, will listen to comments, will be sufficiently sensitive. In short, in that section, which also regulates relations or disciplinary responsibilities with this law, we would like to see that those procedures are also regulated and that the conduct of cases in the immediate past is considered inappropriate in the case of the sexual harassment of women, soldiers in the Slovenian Army. The measures should be stricter and, when there is a suspicion, I hope that you will be correcting this direction, if there is and when there is a suspicion of harassment, they should immediately introduce the temporary removal of the suspect or suspect and possibly the relocation of the person or person who has been harassed or harassed. In short, disciplinary responsibilities are not clear and I hope that there will never be a repeat of such impeccable meddling, as well as intervention and reading and identifying reasons as they have certainly shed not only a bad light on the entire service complex in the Slovenian Army, but undoubtedly a strong moral twist and degradation involved in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office, Mr. Honorable Minister-in-Charge! Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is true that the Service Act in the Slovenian Army regulates fundamental organisational issues in the Slovenian Army. It is also true that it lays down the principles of leadership and command. It is true that he will handle disciplinary responsibility and, of course, compensation, the legal responsibility of employees. What pleases me personally is that he will also deal with work-related issues in a special chapter. He also introduced fixed-term employment contracts for members of the permanent military. This is exactly what will bind members somewhere to confirm that they can renew the contract. However, with all due respect to the Minister, I would like to stress the following. Given that we have reduced the number of troops in the Slovenian Army by five times, from 87,000 to 14,000, as the Minister stressed, it would be expected that organisation in this area would be greatly improved or that we would have the opportunity to see what is normal in other armies. With all due respect, once again, we have a number of open questions for the Minister and the State. I expect the Minister to finally find the time to meet and discuss these open issues, in line with his promise. Many lawsuits have been lost for the country. The soldiers have sued the Ministry, and today this same ministry doesn't even want to respect it. The lawsuits continue on a higher level. What's this all about? For it is a signed treaty on the offence or formation of a new army at the time of independence signed by the then minister, today the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, who simply do not respect each other today. Whether or not they are lost, the Ministry says they have been founded, promoted under these contracts, then signed contracts, are not taken into account, nor are the restructuring or redistribution of workers, experts who have acquired various expertise in the previous system, taken into account. I'm not going to say that today's recruitment in the Slovenian Army is bad. Training in the Slovenian Army today is certainly professional, but it is not to take into account the knowledge of those who have been trained in the previous system by very quality methods, and today even experts for supervision and implementation from neighbouring Croatia who have also attended these same courses and the same schools - this is shameful! Our workers, however, are being deployed, so-called experts, to the place of builders, maintenance workers and so on. In short, for this, Minister, you know, I expect us to sit down and find time to discuss specific matters. Too much irrational spending on public finances - I have also warned the Minister about this. We have in the Primorski case, when soldiers drive from Prekmurje to serve or to work at the sea end; after 4.5 they are "ticked" in the car, they drive every day and they receive travel expenses for it. It's one thing that's not acceptable. The question is whether these soldiers are psychologically capable, if they are truly capable of carrying out these works and the tasks for which we pay them, on such a long journey. On the other hand, we have empty military apartments that the military holds for itself, which it does not want to rebuild or use for young families. This has also been warned by the Minister, here are the large material assets that stand and are owned by the Republic of Slovenia. I do not know why we cannot achieve in the opposition of the party that if the comment is well intentioned not to be taken into account. I will say this: I personally expect that after the adoption of this law, which deals with the service of the Slovenian Army, the arms theft will in fact end. We know that we were present and were aware of this fact that we had an attempted rape and that we also had the destruction of the flag, which hung as a symbol of the Republic of Slovenia on drugs in the military. We've had these things present and they're unheard of. I hope that the disciplinary chapter, which also regulates the liability of individuals in this area, will regulate and remedy these irregularities in the Slovenian Army, which are not in honour of the Republic of Slovenia. At least the three I counted. And not the last time we talk about human resources. The personnel available today in the Slovenian Army are certainly more useful than we are using today and I would like to highlight something. For me, it is a great nonsense that our army, which, I say, is highly skilled, is solving border issues in other countries that are unresolved, we are not at home interested in these issues. I am not talking about our borders being controlled by the military, but we should focus more on our unresolved border issues. And those soldiers that we pay to solve those same problems that we can't solve at home, we also need to use them in our home territory first, and then send them somewhere else. At present, we have an entire battalion in Kosovo, which is doing this job well and handling these issues. As has already been said, in the Slovenian National Party, we will support this law by requiring the introduction of new amendments or amendments to this law, because we believe that this law is not fully acceptable. We will ask the Minister to make these contentious demands, which are known to the courts, at least there are thousands of them; and this is the problem, you know, the minister you will have to resolve - you cannot escape from this indefinitely. These lawsuits also cost us taxpayers, and so either I advise you to go to settlement or actually open up a truly constructive dialogue with the affected, because even soldiers are eventually people living in the city's cores and having their families and these families have to live somewhere. It would be fair, then, to remove the injustices of the past caused by this new country in this way, including this new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u50	Thank you for your input, Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister with colleagues. In the DeSUS Group, we welcome the introduction into the legislative procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Service in the Slovenian Army, which in our opinion deals with a number of important issues related to the status of soldiers and military service. We need such a law in order to continue the development of the Slovenian Army. Such a law is also needed to stop negative human resources trends in the professional army. We have been talking about this law for quite some time, so I expect us to adopt it as soon as possible in Parliament. However, we also understand the difficult coordination that the Ministry of Defence has done in the drafting of the bill, as the law also directly refers to a number of extremely important issues that have been relevant to the entire public sector in recent years. Our parliamentary group will support the law. Particularly important, according to our assessment, the fact that the law also regulates the fundamental issues of service relations in the performance of military service. These are relations that are important both for the position of an individual and for relations between members and superiors and subordinates. The protection of the dignity of an individual, his rights and obligations can also be adequately ensured, in particular by legal arrangements, but not only by the rules of service as has been regulated so far. It is important that the draft law very clearly regulates the procedure or service path for the management of all business matters. We have witnessed so far when numerous internal issues of the military, either through anonymous letters, individual letters or otherwise, tried to resolve themselves in public, through the media and also here in Parliament. On the other hand, the basic options in the units themselves or within the military were not exploited. The military is a specific organisation and therefore it is so important that relations within it are carefully regulated. The task of the military leadership, in particular the General Staff and Command, is to ensure that these relations are also consistently respected and enforced in practice. We share the opinion already expressed by the Minister that the law would be more transparent if the provisions relating to military service and the legal affairs of military personnel were passed on to him from the Defence Act. Nevertheless, the Military Service Act is an important complement to the regime for which the principles are laid down in the Defence Act. Some areas, such as the integrated care of members, are completely new. Taking into account the provisions of the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, the status of members of the military is substantially different from that of other public servants. This is not fully applicable to the payment system. The Service Act provides opportunities for better and better regulation of salaries in the military, which is absolutely necessary. Wages in the military, in particular soldiers, have unfortunately been seriously lagging behind in the past period, as well as delays in the implementation of the new payment system, which has been in place since 2004, have led to the fact that 500 euros for the 16th and 17th grades cannot really be a great motive for the employment of young soldiers. We therefore welcome the efforts of the Ministry of Defence or the decision of the Government, which has already determined that the basic payment class for all uniformed professions is the 20th grade of payment. It is true that the salaries of the military in our situation cannot be separated from the entire wage system in the public sector. However, it should be pointed out that the Public Sector Payment System Act was adopted in 2002, when we did not have a professional army at all, nor did we have experience in its development. In recent years, we have gained this experience and it is certain that the implementation of one payment system in the public sector should also take more account of the specific requirements, responsibilities and conditions required by the military service. No other uniformed profession is subject to restrictions that apply to a soldier, that is, after 45 years of age it is no longer able to perform military service. In any other uniformed profession, employment is not regulated by contracts for a specific period of five or ten years, but by soldiers. Given the tasks and purpose, there is a huge difference between the units. We advocate that, if possible, some of the solutions in the field of payment for military service in the so-called relocation and response forces would be implemented under this law. The transferable forces are the key units of the Slovenian Army. They shall be subject to specific training programmes. In the final phase, these units are expected to comprise around 40% of the entire military force, so it is all the more important that military personnel are also motivated by the payment system to operate in these units. As we develop them in line with an agreement within the framework of the Alliance, these units represent the implementation of the country's international obligations. These are also key units for participation in missions, for participation in collective defence and national defence. It is because of the fact that soldiers can no longer work in the military after 45 years of age, that we are very good at assessing solutions that increase the chances of hiring soldiers after 45 years of age. In particular, there are appropriate solutions that encourage employers to employ former soldiers or solutions that enable more self-employment. We believe that other solutions need to be developed in this direction in order to ensure the planned completion of the military, the retention at work, and then the least complicated transition to civil service. We also welcome the arrangement of all care for members of the Slovenian Army during and after military service. This is a new area that is more important every day, especially in terms of an effective and motivated part of the members. This is a matter raised by the professional army that requires special regulation. The rights conferred by the Service Act in the Slovenian Army are, according to our assessment, the beginning of the restructuring of this area. We hope and wish that these rights too will not be criticized in this sense, if all in the public sector are the same, there is no need for the military to be something special, and so on. In doing so, we can have many examples in professional armies of significantly larger countries than our own. Surely, however, these solutions, known by the American, English and French armies, cannot simply be brought into our environment, but we need to look for solutions that can also actually be realized and accepted by the environment. This is not always easy in our Slovenian situation. Finally, the reorganisation of the Ministry of Defence, which they have been preparing for a long time, will have to be adapted to this area or to the recruitment, retention and integrated care of members. It is mainly about the integration of the human resources function between military and civilian work, which is also indicated in the draft law. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as we say, we support the proposal for a law on service in the Slovenian Army in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. We will endeavour to adopt it as soon as possible and as best as possible so that on this basis we can continue to transform and develop our Slovenian army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Hrvat has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, Chief, Honourable High Council! The basic objective of the law that we are considering now is to deal as closely as possible with the most important issues of military service in the Slovenian Army. This is primarily the case for command and other matters that are the basis for the effective conduct of military service. In addition, further specificities of the nature of the labour force must be regulated by this law. Experience with the completion and operation of the professional army has shown that certain matters are regulated and defined too generally in the Defence Act. The adoption of the law I am considering today will provide a legal basis for the effective functioning of the professional army, its human resources development and the transfer of personnel to civilian occupations after the end of the military career. The proposed law also further regulates the protection of the rights of members of the military and the application of the principle of equal accessibility. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we hope that a collective agreement for the public sector will be concluded as soon as possible, as this will mean an overall system of wage arrangements, i.e. the salaries of professional soldiers. Articles 58 and 59 of the draft law regulate wages which provide that soldiers are part of the public service system, but the Government may, under the regulation, lay down allowances for certain structures. The current pay system does not evaluate all the responsibilities and burdens required by the professional service of the military. The Government Regulation lays down supplements for working conditions, risks and special burdens, only that they cannot exceed 20% and 30% of the basic salary. Military employment has been uncompetitive in the labour market over the past two years and the only solution is to pay professional soldiers, in particular those exposed to special burdens. With the adoption of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, there will also be arrangements for several areas. The principle of belonging, honorable conduct, military discipline, command will be improved, the field or problems of service routes will be better regulated, promotion and promotion, scholarship, wage policy, military training, transition to civilian life after 45 years of age, disciplinary responsibility, gender equality and health, psychological and spiritual care and legal assistance will be regulated. The law does not mention the guardian of military rights, as this proposal was opposed by the Ombudsman. The Service Act in the Slovenian Army does not have to be coordinated with the European acquis. The military service is governed by the members of the European Union and the members of the Union, then different, depending on their historical development, the system of replenishment, material, human resources and other options. Thus, each Member State of NATO has the option of independently regulating military service, as well as certain restrictions on the performance of military service outside the country of origin in relation to national restrictions and needs. The Service Act in the Slovenian Army will increase the possibilities and interest in employment and military work with the possibility of moving faster to civilian occupations after the end of military service or greater security after the end of work in the Slovenian Army. The trend of permanent employment of women will continue as the law contributes significantly to the application of the principle of equal accessibility. The Service Act in the Slovenian Army will also more fully implement the activities and activities necessary for the army's professional system and contractual reserve. The scope of cooperation with interested economic associations and companies will also increase with a view to the proper replenishment of the contractual reserve. The Slovenian Democratic Party's first reading delegation supports the adoption of this law for all of the above reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Aurelio Juri has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u54	All of you have a nice day! I'll start like my friend Anderlich; we've been waiting for him for two and a half years. We are pleased, all of us, after the discussions so far, that he has entered our hall. The situation in the Slovenian Army, whose species are less than complemented, as we know, is literally called upon by him or even more after satisfactory regulation of all conditions of military service affecting this situation. And today, the proposal for a law on service in the Slovenian Army is on our tables. I repeat that, in accordance with the principles and basic solutions set out in the Defence Act, it is intended to regulate in more detail the ways and means of carrying out the tasks of the Slovenian Army, the command in it and other matters, in particular the employment nature of the military service. Since we alone in our parliamentary group and the party have assessed that this law is important, we have proposed and achieved that it will be discussed and co-formed together, as the Minister has recalled, within the Partnership for Development, as well as a number of other laws, key to improving the situation in Slovenian society and to strengthening its placement in European and wider international space. But when we learned about all the professional behaviour we are going through and the constructiveness of the proposed solutions, we realized that they did not promise the effects that the applicant wished or achieved the goals that the law had set. We also learned that it could not have been improved much and satisfactorily if we did not go to the original "chocks" from the current situation in the Slovenian Army or the roof law, this is the Law on Defence. It already has its own venerable years for the dynamics of life that surrounds us, 13 years, surrounded by many social, international, statusal, structural changes both at home and abroad, and which requires a thorough renovation if we really want improvements. Since such an intervention would take a lot more time and political consensus, we do not doubt that we would not have reached it, the government scared him and gave him up and so comes to Parliament only with the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. It is true that even with some of the solutions that our party has proposed in the framework of coordination within the Partnership for Development, but with a product that does not promise much if it is not yet added or improved. Let me say that the Social Democrats are pleased that our proposal for a general hearing has been adopted, and let me point out immediately that the conclusion that the proposal for a law is a suitable basis for further consideration, we will not oppose it, we will support it, because it does make a difference. Is this far from what, according to our assessment, is needed in the Slovenian Army and what with it, its proper regulation and competence also needs the state and the military-political alliance to which Slovenia belongs. It is also worth considering that before his second reading, we would allow for a wider discussion of the activity or a public presentation of opinions in the hope that the applicant will listen to any further comments and intelligent solutions. And what, in our view, are the fundamental problems that the law does not solve? The first finding and weakness of the existing situation is the marital confusion in the field of military operations. More than 130 legal, submarital, and other acts are taking place today. And here we are in the urgent need to unify the legislation, which is possible only with the intervention, as I had previously done, into the roof law, this is the Law of Defence. This confusion and fragmentation of the regulations greatly complicates the functioning of the Slovenian Armed Forces and its responsiveness and adaptation to the security situation. However, as I have said before, the proposaler has not chosen this path to resolving the problem, so let us go to the law itself and see what weaknesses the proposal is before us. The first is that it refers to arrangements in other countries that are not yet comparable to ours in terms of military service. Germany retains the concept of the recruitment of armed forces. It has 83 million inhabitants and a completely different geostrategic position. Austria is not in NATO, even though it participates in peacekeeping operations or is committed to neutrality under the 1995 Treaty of State and therefore has a completely different concept of defence. Latvia and Estonia, as members of NATO and the Republic of the former Soviet Union with a number of Russian minorities, have a totally incomparable geostrategic position and challenges because they limit - not with ease, as we well know - with a large and strong Russian Federation. Third flaw: it does not, in our opinion, adequately regulate the internal situation in the military. While the bill increases disciplinary measures and gives the possibility to further discipline soldiers and soldiers, it does not prevent officers from being abused in establishing and maintaining discipline. To these phenomena, as we know, we are always, and at times, witnesses. A substantial lack of space and content in the proposal of the law gives rise to issues of departure from the Slovenian Army. It is still unclear what a soldier gets and what a soldier who leaves the Slovenian Army gets after serving or serving the maximum possible number of years; that is, when he is 45 years old or older, he is still very far from retirement and extremely difficult to employ or employ. This dilemma is and remains the most unpleasant and dissuasive circumstance - even more so as it pays itself - all the more so than stimulating, as we know, for the further employment of new members and members of the Slovenian Army. And the answer offered by the law is, in our firm belief, too weak. It is true that the country is investing heavily in the education of soldiers and soldiers, for the sake of the specificity of the profession also in foreign countries, but cannot include this training system abroad in the salary system of public servants and also this situation does not work on employees in the Slovenian Army overly encouraging. Nor is the status of a soldier, who remains a civil servant in the future, although, especially when we consider his participation in peacekeeping operations, at the conditions and risks of such service, he is completely incomparable with an official in an office to which all our respect goes. This also poses a problem in the system of remuneration, as the Law on the salaries of public servants stems from the fact of the level of education. In other words, a soldier or a soldier for whom or whom no university education is provided, which is quite understandable, is already basically deprived or deprived of the prize. Not to mention the lack of solutions that would satisfactorily regulate the career path of all layers of employees in the Slovenian Army: soldiers, subordinates, officers, military personnel, civilian staff. Last but not least, as predeparted and assigned within the Partnership for Development, the proposal for a law is not fully aligned with the representative unions, this is recognised by the proposer or minister himself. He is only coordinated with those who receive something from this law, or with pilots or union established by the Government itself. It is also a clear fact that it is not as far as they can tell us the professional and military resources, from the findings of many of the analyses already carried out by the Slovenian Army itself, but it was written by the civil part of the Ministry, which creates doubts as to whether the law has really understood the real problems and problems facing members and members of the Slovenian Army. If I conclude, it is good that the proposal for the Service Law in the Slovenian Army has seen the light. It is good that we have come to know him and it will be bad if we rush his acceptance if we do not allow the most affected or his first users and the professional public to reach out to him with solutions that will be socially acceptable and slightly more promising that the Slovenian Armed Forces will strengthen and better face the challenges ahead. When we are already afraid to intervene in the defence law itself - let me once again call on the ministry to consider whether it would be advisable to follow this path - we are so much more obliged, representatives of the Government, Mr Minister, to listen to the need for a wider consideration of the draft law on service in the Slovenian Army. I hope that this need is also felt by colleagues and colleagues from the coalition groups and that we will support on the Defence Committee a possible proposal to make a public presentation before the second reading of this law, so that we will certainly not all know enough about this issue together, including those who know much more; these are the defence and other professions employed in the Slovenian Army and, lastly, by interested civil society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Stane Pike has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! I listened attentively to the debate of the groups of Members who gave their views. All parliamentary groups so far, both positions and opposition groups, have supported the law. That alone says something. This says that marriage is good and that it is going in the right direction. Even when I read this law, I had some comments on it myself, and yet, this is a great progress in this law regulating the service in the Slovenian Army. Of course, the law itself and the regulation of these rules will not achieve the human one, which must also be regulated within the army, the law is only a framework. It is at all that we continue to work at that human level, especially those who are most responsible for the Slovenian Army, and that all the conditions that can be resolved on the maximum human salary, that relations are good, that is when the soldiers will also show joy on the outside and tell their colleagues that the situation in the army is very good, excellent, and that there will also be fewer problems for entry or service in the Slovenian Army. Of course, the soldier's profession has a lot of specificities. The very profession of soldiers is very difficult and responsible, and it is also honorable, and so we must take it. It requires a lot of renunciation, and for a soldier's profession, you have to decide if you feel it inside you. And only when you feel inside yourself, at least partly inside yourself, that you're born for a soldier's profession is right, and then you're a good soldier. The law itself cannot be ordered by a good soldier. Of course, much can be done to make things clear and to arrange for the Slovenian Army to be a good army, which it is, and that it will be even better and that relations will be even better. I'm not gonna tell you what's going on in this marriage. A lot of things are improving. It is important that the law goes in the right direction, that we can fix it later, that we improve it, and that the Slovenian soldier will be more satisfied than he was now, and that the Slovenian Army will be as effective and more effective as it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u57	Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. [[You're giving up.]] Mr. Christian Janz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Chairman. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting on my behalf as well. I also certainly support the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, because I believe that this can be a positive step towards the further development of the Slovenian Army. However, I fear personally that this step is a little too determined and too short, in the goal that the Slovenian Army, the Government, and finally the Parliament - my personal opinion - may correct me then. However, the matter must be resolved. It is probably not only a matter of the Ministry of Defence, but of the whole society, the whole environment, the ministry and everyone else, if we want this whole, I will say, a little bit of the initial problems of this Slovenian professional army to solve for the benefit of what the Slovenian state has decided - for this career of a professional soldier who, of course, is not traditional in Slovenia and has a birth spasm and will probably have them in the future. Because society is not the most favored with uniforms - unfortunately, we are Slovenians - and it will probably take some time in society to get more involved with young people, especially those who decide on this profession, which, as we have already heard today, is a bit specific, different, unusual and so on. Especially at a time when we live, when demand for workers is significantly higher in Slovenia, such as the offer. Let them be simple works, let them be innkeepers, builders, welders, if you want techniques, engineers build, and soldiers. It's just not on the market. And it's no wonder if there's no soldier. This is an integral part of our environment that we are in. On the one hand, thank God that we lack workers in this Slovenian space, and of course the problem is that we have to or employers have to look for employees abroad, so bring foreigners into our space so that they can work those jobs for which Slovenians do not get the staff. This is not yet the case for the Slovenian Army, perhaps over the years, and something like this can happen here with us in the future. And all these things, the measures prepared by this law are positive, from the fact that certain relations are introduced in the military and the status and scholarship for all categories, it seems very positive to me, as well as the benefits to employers after 45 years to offer the Slovenian soldier the opportunity to receive certain positive effects for employment - of course, to pay. But wages are the kind of thing that, as in every profession, I think we call most important, although some say that it is not, but it is, in fact, because certainly every job seeker is attracted to wages. Let us be honest, pay especially in the Slovenian Army. Let's be honest. And if society, if the military, if the state wants, will simply have to cut a little deeper into the pocket, as it is called - for a better salary. For a better salary, it is possible today to attract a lot of people into professions that are not so attractive, so interesting, which are deficient and so on - let it be the profession of soldiers, innkeepers if you want, builders or welders. That's it. And don't let them blame me for throwing it into one category, but these are the jobs I've been looking for. And here's where society, the state will have to say, "Yeah, that's not enough!" Is this the 16th grade that I think was a little embarrassing for a Slovenian soldier? I don't even know if the 20th grade is enough. Probably not. And this is probably not going to fix all these problems, but let's take one step in a positive direction, we want to fix it. Of course, this law does not yet do so, I think it will be regulated by acts of law that follow the adoption of the law in the National Assembly. But this will follow, probably then it will be transferred to the Ministry of Public Administration, Mr Virant, who will probably have some problems in the future. But overall, the thing is positive, it's a step forward, as I said, maybe I'd do a little longer, but still, step by step you also get to the goal, a little longer time. I believe that this direction and this path will be positive, and I hope, I want the Ministry, but above all the Slovenian Army, to align the objectives, needs and wishes already set by this law. I believe that there is no Member, a parliamentary group that would oppose this in today's debate in the National Assembly. There will probably be another amendment by the next debate, perhaps if it is positive if it adds any additional value to this law, so that the sun will shine a little bit more on the Slovenian Army, especially on those candidates who will decide on this career path, which is called the Slovenian Army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u59	Thank you, too. The next word is Mr Milan Squeakl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Chief of Staff, welcome. The Law on Service in the Slovenian Army and First Instance is, of course, intended to exchange some views, especially on matters that may not be covered sufficiently in the law, but are ambiguous and should be supplemented. I will not repeat everything that has been said on behalf of the positions of Social Democracy, but I will point out only one fundamental dilemma: it was certainly right that we decided in Slovenia for a professional army. I just don't want to be the way I had to or we are, which makes us male and a couple of women, we just have to go to our old compulsory military service. That is why I think it is good that we have decided to do so, but of course it is necessary for this professional army to also establish professional conditions. The Service Act in the Slovenian Army, if we only look at the assessment of the financial implications for the public budget and other public funds, is not ambitious enough at this point. If we devote almost EUR 300 million to buying some 110 or 135 armoured persons 8 times 8, it is not surprising that we are prepared, as stated on page 11 of the law, to devote just one hundred or maybe one-two hundred of these funds to implement the proposed solutions in this law. Why is that too little? Because, of course, it is clear to anyone who compares the potential revenues of our soldiers with those of other countries that we are about to lose those who are supposed to drive these armored men. I will not go into the details now, but whoever is talking to the soldiers who are in Kosovo today, and if what is reported in the media is true, it is highly likely that these soldiers will soon be soldiers of the Italian contingent in accordance with the freedom of movement, in contrast to 500 000 or 1,500 euros, because, of course, they will simply not resume their jobs after the end of their five-year term. Therefore, consideration should be given to taking into account the system of public servants, taking into account the system of wages, what else can be done. I would like to propose, and on the Committee on European Union Affairs a few days ago, to discuss this with the Secretary of State, Mr Strovs, to see if it is possible - taking into account the fact that these soldiers are employed until their 45th year in the supplementary pension scheme - to increase premiums which take into account that they are, of course, only working on average 20 years. I think that under Slovenian legislation, given European legislation to do so. That's what I think it would be good to do. This is something that, of course, can make us more competitive, especially when these soldiers are at home, abroad and so on. On page 14 of this Law, it is very clear what the terms of the soldiers in neighbouring Austria are. I'm not pledging here to make sure you do the same thing as, say, Austrian soldiers. The Austrian soldiers have, I will banalise, the right that payments, which mean supplements, are simply not taxed. Consider why, according to the Income Act, Slovenian citizens who work in the European Union are not taxable and Slovenian soldiers who are on European Union missions are liable to income. And of course it means that they are paying 42% of their income on something that is anyway the cost of the European Union. I do not claim to be exceptions, but there have been some arguments when we said in the Income Act that it makes sense to apologize to the European Commissioner, but that a member of the European Commission, I don't know, employees who are Slovenian citizens and who work in the institutions of the European Union are not liable for income except for the urgent part that we don't do it for Slovenian soldiers. This would solve a lot of problems, especially in terms of competitiveness. Good. Then it is a dilemma: Is it now 12 months or 13 months or 14 months? But here is one more important dilemma. I'll introduce her because we have the Chief of Staff here. In Europe, we have basically two systems for awarding public servants. Slovenia is the so-called pyramid structure. At the top of the pyramid structure is the President of the National Assembly and the President of the Government. Depends on how many kids someone has. That's how it's on the net. Then, of course, everyone follows down. And since we have gross salary for the base, the ratio is about 1:7. In the English structure, at the top of the structure is about 3,000 so-called "whitehall officials", including the chief of general staff, who has about 400,000 pounds of wages. In the middle, however, Tony Blair and his premiere team pay about £250,000. Why? Because these 3,000 key employees can get a job anywhere else. And I believe that the chiefs of the Slovenian General Staff, directors, say, the Information Technology Sector in Owl, the police, the military, and where they get their jobs in Slovenian banks by the way. It is therefore necessary to give serious consideration to the concept of the system of public servants. This will also change and can have a significant impact on the relationship and reward of professionals. The Austrian example also tells us what this comprehensive provision is for members of the federal army and so on. But, gentlemen from the Ministry of Defence and General Staff, if your fate depends on the Ministry of Public Administration, then we will not solve this problem under the Slovenian Army Act. That is why we have proposed - at some preparatory meetings I myself - to consider, however, whether the Defence Act should be amended. But, of course, there's a binder. We cannot change the Defence Act, where this professional army lady, to say so, I will banalize, as much as they need, and then the government itself decides to use them anywhere in the world. Of course, this cannot be ensured by a responsible country. That's why the system of three keys I think is the right system to use. The government has decided with the Service Act in the Slovenian Army not to bite the sweet apple into this acid or perhaps sweet apple. That's why you're risking not doing enough with the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. My proposal is that in the public debate below, we look at these issues again and, above all, we are responsible for those whom we have been practically professionalising for five years and a little while ago, because of course these people are wearing their head on a platter. And in the end, I won't stay in debt. The fact that I am sometimes a picker, the story of the so-called Article 6 paragraph 92, concerns former members. I am interested in and explain to me: Is the Slovenian Constitution, the Law on Government Minister for Defence of the Supreme Slovenian Army, or is it the President of the Republic? Until now, I thought the President of the Republic was the Commander-in-Chief. Why does he say that? Article 6 states that military and civilian persons, etc. or the former Minister of Defence and State Secretaries of the Ministry shall be buried with military honours in a manner and condition. I kind of think if it were the President of the Republic, the former President of the Republic or the former Supreme Commanders. But the Minister of State at the Ministry is, in my opinion, the top of the civil administration and represents civil authority over the defence area where the Slovenian Army is. But I'll analyze his tools. But the Slovenian Army and its tools are in line with the hierarchy of power at the top of which is the Commander-in-Chief, who is the President of the Republic. So I would ask if, in the following way, this anomaly, unless someone wants to be like the former Minister of Defence - I apologize, I don't know why anyone would want it - buried with military honours to of course correct the law. I'll support the marriage. I will also support the proposal for a public debate on this issue and, of course, I propose a serious reflection on pension stories, on tax aspects in the same way as in the European Union and on whether, of course, this is already a discussion with Mr Virant and with anyone else - whether the existing pyramid structure for the award of public servants, some of whom are exposed to their lives, not to say that they are competing with others in operation, for example, in these peace operations, is in fact the answer to what is before Slovenia. And in front of Slovenia, it has a more efficient state. We have decided for such an army that should be small, but if the army is not well rewarded, it will never work effectively or do any stupid things at home, which none of us want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u61	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Yelen is next on the list of applicants. [[He's not here.]] Member Marian Drofenik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I believe that the proposed Service Act in the Slovenian Army is urgently needed. In particular, because I think there are delays in the development and regulation of the Slovenian professional army. I believe that there is no greater interest in employment due to unattractive wages. Especially because there are more opportunities and better opportunities in other sectors of the economy, as well as in other public administrations. It is also very important that they settle because now the situation is not settled when a professional soldier, for example, hurts when he eventually loses his health, but, of course, when he reaches his prescribed age, we will soon get into a situation when he reaches 45 years of age, there is no defined system to gradually prepare a professional soldier from the start of his career to the end of his career in order to enable him to have a normal life after a completed military career. It is right that these matters begin to be resolved in this proposal. It is also important to ensure the professional, fair and fair conditions of command within the units. I support that the law goes into further consideration, because I believe that, while it is incomplete, at least partially regulates the situation in the professional army, it will enable the completion, increase the satisfaction of the soldiers and thus further increase the efficiency of the Slovenian Army. I believe or hope that the employees of the Slovenian Army will feel that they are necessary and that this will be reflected in the material conditions of professional soldiers as in the relationship of society to them. I am also convinced that, given that most parliamentary groups support the law and I am sure that we will find the best or at least good solutions in the process of adopting the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u63	Thank you, too. I call on Ambassador Majdo Potrat to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. General, distinguished representatives of the Government, distinguished Mr. Minister! I'm sorry I only mentioned you in third place. I'm starting my debate with some strange thought. I have been professionally engaged with soldiers and the military only as much as you or subject to literary representations or as the authors of literature themselves. The fact that I've dealt with the Master most of them is understandable in itself. However, this literature business has convinced me that the military profession is not undesirable and a profession in which Slovenians would not be successful in history. However, it has convinced me that it is not only the present time when we are instituting or having a professional army, but we find that entry into the army is not always in the same number as we would expect the authorities or the state to always find levers to bring this profession closer to people. I'm thinking about those times of potato songs, for example. I also say this because I do not specifically justify or make distinctions between my views until Slovenia enters NATO and the military profession. This is where I'm going to stop talking about the army from reading literature, and I'm going to tackle it from the point of view of what I can read today. And if I consider investing in the military, then it is best to hear about two things, the situation in the military at this inter-human level and at the level of the superior-subordinate. That's one thing. The other thing is the question of pay. I associate myself with the position of those experts who are well aware of the fact that some small wage supplement cannot have a significant impact on the greater interest in the military profession. However, I am convinced that more positive relations in the military would, however, help to make more and easier decisions about the military profession. I've read a lot of what military experts believe about military occupational risks, about fluctuation, which is the natural component of this profession. That's why I wouldn't talk about it, because I don't have anything essential to add to everything that's written down. However, I would like to say that for one moment, this is a time limit or an age limit, to which an individual can carry out a military profession, and he likes to add something. For I do not think that the military profession is the only one with this time barrier, that there are other professions in which individuals have to prepare themselves with great deniability and with great investment to be able to carry out their profession well. I mean, specifically. Like ballet dancers and ballet dancers, and there's some kind of profession to be found. Therefore, it seems more essential to me that the behaviour is focused on maintaining mechanisms and incentives for soldiers to be actively involved in the labour market after 45 years of age because they are likely to have difficulties in integrating into the labour market, but also all others who do not carry out such a profession have also acted in the public interest. So this seems to me to be an area that would certainly require solutions that would be more encouraging. From everything I've been monitoring with regard to the situation in the military, I'd like to warn you for two more moments. There was a speech about one today. This is, with the greater integration of women - and I still think there are too few - especially the question of maintaining human dignity in this profession. Here I do not mean to say that the leadership, either the Minister or the Chief of Staff and other senior officers have no very positive and good purpose in introducing measures to ensure such a situation. However, I cannot go beyond some of the cases that have been identified or perceived as harassment by those to whom these practices have been addressed, and the conduct of what is involved in human relations, not on this highest hierarchical scale, but among soldiers. It is, of course, a matter of education and a thing of stereotyping. But I think it would be because the Slovenian Armed Forces are already now, but more likely they will be going into peace actions in the future, and in these peace actions they probably also have the opportunity to transfer positive experiences to the environment in which the Slovenian Armed Forces operate. And here I think it would be good to do more. Now, given that the permanent composition of the Slovenian Army is also 528 civilians, according to the data from April 2007, I would like to touch another problem that I know. For example, as President of the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. That's a mobile question. Not just one case, but there are more when individuals are asking for help because of a hardened mobile phone in the workplace. This is now that problem or that matter that also affects feelings in the Slovenian Army. And it also seems to me that mobilising is something that is reserved not only for hierarchically structured structures, but in different working environments. And since we are actually talking a little bit more about mobile recently, this is an area that I hope you will also think and act decisively in the Slovenian Army. Especially when mobile people are suing with the highest academic addresses. Because it seems to me that the harm of any man who is not given to him in the service he is carrying out is also the way to establish his potential. On this side, of course, I would like to say that there is a lot in the Slovenian Army, which I do not claim to be always justified, but those who accompany this area cannot, however, give very good opinions. I'm thinking about those fake certificates and all that. However, it would probably appear to ask why this phenomenon has such dimensions in the Slovenian Army. Is it because you checked more closely too late or because of something else? I would like to end this debate with another call. Since we had the opportunity to discuss the union in the military at the time of alleged sexual harassment, I would, of course, say that regardless of what anyone thinks about the operation of the union in the military, it would be good if we could see that the degree of harmonisation of this bill with the unions is greater than can be read or detected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u65	Thank you very much. To the word I invite Ambassador Aloys Posedel, he is not here. Member Lucky Friend has the word - he's gone. Member Anton Kokalj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Nice to meet you, Mr. Secretary with the team. Otherwise, everything has been practically said today, but given that we are talking about the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, I would like to point out that the current situation shows that the Slovenian Army is professionally active, organised and educated, and fully equal personnel at the level of all the other armies. Under the conditions under which the staff are operating, it is obvious that they cannot achieve this and therefore there is a problem, which today, in fact, is the fear that the outflow from this army can be very large in the short term. We are practically faced with the question of whether we will succeed with this change, which is of course positive and which I support, still retain the name of the law, whether the name of the law will need to be changed in the long term, whether it will be the Service Act in the Slovenian Army or whether it will be the Service Act in the NATO Army or, I don't know, what kind of army where there will be no more Slovenian soldiers. I think that everything needs to be done to make it the Service Act of the Slovenian Army. This means that the vast majority of Slovenian staff will be. Given that, in other areas, we cannot provide comparable European wages - if I say very simplistic - where the market is working, I believe that, in fact, in the spirit of some of the debaters before me, it is necessary for the State to do everything possible to bring the conditions of military work closer to those of the other armies within the framework of NATO. In the neighborhood, of course. So that this title of this law would not really have happened to us in the years to come. That is why I am also proposing to the government, not only to the ministry, which we cannot do everything here, because it is obviously a slightly broader problem than just the problem of the Ministry of Defence to consider the future of our military structure. Certainly the basic starting point in ensuring that what we have is mostly Slovenian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Bajc has the floor. He's not here. Member Bojan Kontic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Much has been said about this subject today. Let me also state my own support for this law, because it is better than what we have now. So from the situation where the personnel issue in the Slovenian Army is sharpened and when people are leaving or predicting departures from the military profession. Otherwise, I think it would be worthwhile to arrange all of this in the Defence Act, so that the Government or the Ministry should choose enough courage to defend these solutions in this National Assembly in a way that they have the majority required to adopt the Defence Act, which is 2/3. This is a majority that is difficult to achieve. At the same time, this would mean some stability in regulating these matters. Each time the government, every time a coalition, will not be faced with the experience of changing matters if it is regulated by the Defence Act. So I hope that these changes are not ringing the bell, and that these changes with the improvements included in the second reading will help improve the staffing situation in the Slovenian Army. It means nothing to us today, good equipment, if there are no people who will handle this equipment, people who are convinced that they are doing their job well and doing it for the benefit of their country. Let me say I'm a little bit surprised to see all this effort to get people to work in the Slovenian Army. And when I read what's written down under the benefits, it's almost easy, I'd say ironicly, when you write down that the benefits are that they will be able to participate in peacekeeping operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, Kosovo. This may not be a special privilege. It probably helps to make the salary a little higher. But there's a much greater probability that you don't get paid than if you're here in your country, because it's also the primary purpose of defense. After you write down the advantage of being part of the income, the ministry will pay the second pension pillar monthly to increase the pension after retirement. This is already good, but retirement needs to be made, and if a flag falls now at 45 years of age, there are still some of them until this pensioner actually gains the benefits that are recorded here. And when we look at the pay, and when we say that a middle school student will receive the old 80,000 tolars, the new 333 euros. I'd say we're a little joking when we're trying to get new people to do our job in the Slovenian Army. I think it is necessary to root out interventions, that we should also think in the direction that the fellow Member of the Mags said. Squeaky, about salary tax. It would probably be useful to think in the direction that soldiers would be provided with an exception, so that they might have a favourable working age or something like that. Also this idea that you say could be written in the law, that they would have additional opportunities for education, which is, of course, right and to say hello, so that they would be able to get a deal later elsewhere outside the military. This also means, of course, that if someone becomes employed in the Slovenian Army at the age of 20, he can gain additional opportunities for education, it can mean that at the age of 25 he will meet all the conditions to find a better job elsewhere. And it will also be one of the contributions for a little less in the Slovenian Army than it would have been. So it is necessary to root out interventions in this area. I cannot help but say that in the past we have heard many instances of how they once, but not so long ago, in 1990, 1991 we signed the Declaration on demilitarised Slovenia. Many condemnations and apprehensions were made at the time or in connection with those who signed the declaration. Today, I say that if the root intervention is not done in this area, the Government, which is unloved or whose representatives have repeatedly warned of the almost dishonest act at the time of signing this declaration on demilitarised Slovenia, will lead to the fact that the Slovenian Armed Forces are simply not going to have. And that's worrisome. It is therefore worth supporting the efforts. Also the one being filed by the Ministry of Defence at the moment. It's a little late. It's been a few years, but I think it's going in the right direction. The goal of having a human resources-fulfilled and quality human resources-completed Slovenian Army is the right one. The problem is that at the moment, in addition to those who are really interested in this profession and want to do so since the end of primary school, they have been thinking that soldiers will be soldiers, that everyone else who joins the Slovenian Army is, above all, before deciding how to solve their existential problem. That's why they're going into the army. And with these salaries that are predicted here. Those at the Employment Institute are very serious about whether to leave the Employment Institute and go to the Slovenian Army for a couple of Euros and expose themselves to the dangers that a soldier is witnessing in his everyday life, or stay in the institution and look for another, more appropriate place to work. So, as I said twice, three times, it is necessary to root out interventions in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u69	Thank you, too. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the Government and the Slovenian Army! This law certainly takes an important step forward. Indeed, it is an extremely important and, of course, complex law, which, of course, also makes it difficult. It's been around a long time. We have heard about this today. This means that it also affects other areas and that other areas also affect or affect this segment and, of course, this law. Moreover, the situation in this area is changing very quickly. In the introduction, we were able to hear that for at least a short time, this system numbered almost 80,000. Today, it dropped to 14,000 very quickly. Of course, legislation was also trying to do so. However, this was simply not possible everywhere for such or other reasons. That doesn't seem to have been long since we had a recruitment system. Now we have a complete professional form in the Slovenian Army. Besides, the technique has done its part. And according to the tasks of the Slovenian state, which, of course, indirectly, the Slovenian army also has, it was necessary to amend the legislation. I agree with those who say that it might be necessary to do a little more. But unfortunately, it's the kind of thing that I mentioned at the outset that intertwines are too big. It's a segment of society. This is a system that cannot be regulated in just one law, but also in this area is influenced by laws that are already written, which are also from another field and are a complete interlocking and, of course, also an influence. That's why it's necessary to find consensus, and that's probably what happened, the best one, I'll say, the common denominator of the situation, the needs and the desire. As I said, the situation has changed dramatically. If I only mention the forms of threat, where the Slovenian Army, of course, is classified, which has the main task of eliminating these forms of threat, cancels. On the other hand, it also follows them. These forms of threat, at least as far as Slovenia is concerned, I will say, thank God, are no longer those classic military but are non-military forms such as terrorism, migration. If I may mention the most up-to-date at this time, internet terrorism. And, of course, this also means adapting the Slovenian Army. I'd particularly like to mention the alliance here. Because in this alliance in which Slovenia is, our role is different. It has to be admitted that we only cover certain segments. However, those should be covered 100% and also wider, not only in Slovenian criteria, but wider. Here I would mention only intervention units, that we are successful here, proves that we even command international units in the north in Kosovo. This, of course, is a great recognition for Slovenia. At the same time, great responsibility. At the same time, this also means, since we have been involved in the alliance, that we do not simply have to have certain tribes, because we cannot have them either, or that we should increase our defence resources in a way that is costly. That's probably another question again. I certainly belong, too, to this day many times already mentioned, to the pay system, which must be said to be valid in the same way as all other segments of our society, that it must be appropriate for our economic power. Surely it would also be appropriate to reward the work of the soldiers. Here I mean the entire structure of the officers, the officers. I'm talking about soldiers. I don't repeat all the segments. It must be acknowledged that wages are never large enough. The same applies to the Slovenian Army. At this point in Slovenia we regulate the system of wages, for example, to this public sector where we did not have the system so far, but there is every sector, each subsystem had its own system, which is, of course, a huge disadvantage in contrast to other countries. If I only mention our northern neighbors, where this system of wages has been regulated since Maria Teresa. I will say that I am very pleased with the support that the Slovenian Army system would pay more employees. However, I would like to draw your attention to what would then be the case with other uniformed parts of the employees in the Slovenian public sector. Because now some say they're worth more than soldiers. Those are their words. But since we are building a system of wages, we must accept it, even in this form. Maybe, I don't know in a year, two, three, we can do better than that. It must certainly be welcomed that this includes other aspects of awarding, such as scholarships, education, including employment, especially post-45 employment care, as long as active service in the Slovenian Army can continue, including retirement later. The fact is that this law somehow demonstrates or expresses comprehensive concern for the regulation of issues in this area. It is also true that specific matters cannot be resolved in this law but are resolved in special laws. Surely, however, this law is also a good basis for these special laws or bylaws that resolve the remaining areas. Much has been said today about the costs and mentions of NATO and the Alliance. I would say that Slovenia does not have the costs for the Slovenian Army system because of NATO, not because of missions, but because of ensuring its own safety, security of the Slovenians and the Slovenian state. I would like to point out that this security is also ensured to those who are calculating our security as demagogues, compared with certain goods. Security is good. But we know the good is not for nothing. Many are not cheap, but security is probably the value, virtue and goodness that is highest in the hierarchy of our expectations and our desires. Nor can this law solve all the problems that we have heard today, perhaps not. Whoever saw this coming will surely be disappointed. Of course, it is only those who do not know the system or who do not want to understand it. This is for a simple reason, for one marriage, of course, must solve this. That's not possible. Solving the problems of the Slovenian Army has been, has been, and will remain, our common concern, which is reflected not only in this law but also in other laws and regulations. This is our common concern, of course, because the Slovenian Army is part of our society and this segment has its needs. Problems and legality, as well as problems with lack of staff. This is not the specialty of the Slovenian Army. This is a broader matter that is generally a problem across the country. Therefore, to point out and constantly point out the problem here and how people are leaving here, even from other segments of society, people are leaving, and that is why we are not doing such a circus. This is legality in the country, because the Slovenian Army is part of the country and then the problems are common. In view of the fact that many things have already been mentioned, that this law does not solve both this and the other, I would point out once again that companies cannot be regulated or segments of society can only be regulated by one law, but that it is necessary to do so more broadly. But I'm sure this marriage is a good basis for moving forward. I'm sure she's better than she was in the past. That's why, of course, I'm going to support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u71	Thank you, too. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Sam Bevek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u72	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. A well-respected choir. I will, of course, support the proposal of the Employment Act in the Slovenian Army. The fact is that it is necessary to harmonise the wage system in the Slovenian Army, not only in the Slovenian Army, but elsewhere. I mean the police and other similar services, but also in the public sector. But when I opened the website of the Ministry of Defence and looked at the website of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the professional soldier, I read very optimistic predictions that over the next few years the Slovenian Army will receive more than 2,000 new soldiers and that this will become the largest organisation in Slovenia. You must have thought about the company, because it says here the Slovenian Army is a company where more than 6,500 citizens and citizens of Slovenia are employed. But then when I looked at the password of a professional soldier and walked through the reception conditions, the reception procedure, the application, the training, the payments, the benefits and the obligations and through the traineeships, I realized that it would be so easy to make those optimistic predictions come true if something didn't change. And maybe this law is the right direction. But I don't know if it's gonna work. Indeed, looking at reception conditions is not so simple, nor is the question of why you should not be older than 25 years of age, perhaps you have or prefer those who are younger who do not think, who do not have so much experience, but you could also think about the age limit. Then I looked at the admission procedure for you to become a professional soldier. It's very demanding, it takes three to four months. I don't know if it takes three, four months to sign up for a job. We might as well check this out a little bit and shorten this process in time. It's not that simple either. You have six points on your website. And then he says, "The forms in points 5, 6 and 7 can also be found on your exhibit." In the exhibitions that are now being suspended and are supposed to be abolished everywhere in all administrative units, except where the new landscapes are supposed to be. Nor is it in favor of gaining new professional soldiers. In Idrija, we only have one other employee at the exhibition. In a few months, this one will lose his job or go to another job. Come in. Training. Well, that's pretty well written. E.R. Although the traineeship is 8 months old, what colleague Kontič has already found out is the EUR 333 traineeship net salary. I was listening to one show this morning and watching on TV when one of the retirees asked, it was a contact show, "How am I supposed to survive with 300 euros of pension?" How does a professional soldier trainee with 333 euros pay survive? We have also heard about the benefits. Of course, it's a benefit to be involved in peace operations, like where, probably a benefit. As colleague Kontič said, serving the Slovenian Army in Iraq, there is no special benefit It is possible, however, to serve the Slovenian Army in the mission in Brussels. [[...]] That's what I believe it is. And dealing with modern military equipment and weapons is supposed to be a benefit. That seems to me to be understandable in itself. So I would suggest that you update this website a little bit. Make it a little more attractive to make it easier for some of the young Slovenian citizens and citizens to choose to serve in the Slovenian Army. But it is a key question in my opinion, and if it is true, say, if it is not true, say - that the ordinary Italian professional soldier has about the same salary as the commander of the Slovenian mission in Kosovo. As long as we have such differences, I fear that there will be no success in this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u73	Thank you. To the word I invite the apostle Joseph Jerovšek. [[He's not here.]] Dr. Mitja Slavinec has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! I agree with myself that we have finally received the long-awaited marriage on the bench and have been foretold for a long time. And I am pleased that some things and some relations in the Slovenian Army and in particular the status of the Slovenian soldier, now we finally get settled, and in some areas it is well regulated. It also takes care of the comprehensive development of the Slovenian Army and the Slovenian soldier. On the other hand, as many forerunners, I find that there are still areas to complete, complete, perfect and, above all, make the law a better service to its purpose. Therefore, to define the status of the Slovenian soldier more clearly and to define it in such a way that, on the one hand, it will not only stop the trend of the reduction of personnel in the Slovenian Army, but that it will really encourage those young people who have a say in this profession to decide on it. That is not to say that a professional soldier is often chosen by those who simply do not have other options and, last but not least, it is also geographically conditioned. It is no coincidence that the most members of the Slovenian Army, that the most soldiers from areas where economic development is lower than the Slovenian average. And on the one hand, we can find that certain things are very precisely defined, from the ecological awareness of soldiers to intimate relations. On the other hand, we also find some, probably, dictional messes that have been shown below when you say, say, caring for family members who are defined as children or adoptives and spouses or outside the marriage partner. These children are enrolled until they are of age. It is then further defined at the time of schooling in one of the following articles. I warn you that this dictatorship is valid until it is of age or until it is completed. Also then, we can see there in Article 87 instead of a "family member" a dictatorship for the end of "and children", which, according to the previous definition, is significantly narrower. And there's probably more details like that. But in general, I would certainly like to point out that in this law I myself would like to see more respect for the specifics of the military profession and that there will be no military and military profession again just one on that scale, but will indeed take care of the status of the soldiers. I'm not just saying it's pay. It is not only the remuneration, but it is the status of the soldier and, on the other hand, whether or not young people opt for a military profession, depending also on the situation in the military itself, depending on the working conditions. I have also repeatedly pointed out the unscheduled business of transporting to and from work. Again, it is not only about compensation for these costs, but also about how they can lead to their jobs and back. In jest, of course, we can say that on the one hand it is fortunate that we are in Slovenia and not in the former Yugoslavia. "Because then it could also happen that some Prekmurec in Gevgelia would drive to and from work," I stressed in jest. But also such things, such transports are very long distances daily, which could be avoided by better organisation, unfortunately happen. The specificity of the profession should be taken into account. You can choose a job, a public servant more or less you know where you're going to work. Just one of the specs. When you decide to be a soldier, your job is the potential of all of Slovenia. This is one difference, one specific that needs to be taken into account. And not just the whole of Slovenia. A very large part of our army also participates in missions abroad. And also this part, we have already heard certain proposals, needs to be properly evaluated, even in terms of the receipts they receive for their missions and also in terms of the fact that the soldiers will carry out their mission abroad not only as part of improving their material state, but that this relationship, which they then have in Slovenia outside, will be more comparable. And one last thing. I am sure that even in the existing system, it is better to ensure that Slovenian soldiers are able to employ after 45 years of age, to find more of those civilian duties, not strictly military within the existing system, within the military, by still having greater social security, a greater guarantee of employment, because despite commendable changes or provisions of law that somehow care for the employment of soldiers after 45 years. So when they no longer meet the conditions, yet it still remains one of those main concerns why young people do not choose to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u76	Dear President! Mr. Minister, representatives of the Ministry, esteemed colleague and colleague! For two years we waited for the so-called system law, which was supposed to make the status of a professional soldier definitively or at least by force. We now have before us this proposal for a Service Act in the Slovenian Army, which, I must say, at all good wishes, the Benevolent, does not meet our expectations, and unfortunately not the expectations of the professional public. I hate to go back to history, but 2004 is probably not so far as to be considered as history, but as a present that somehow determines us. That year, on 30 November, Mr Karl Erjavec promised something on the Defence Committee when he presented his wishes, his will, his joy to the Slovenian Army. He said: "In the area of the defence system I will certainly propose the adoption of the status law on military service. I believe that such a solution is appropriate and that most countries also know it. Most NATO-related countries as well. It is, however, that professional soldiers or soldiers who have contracts cannot be considered within the framework of the Public Servants Act, as officials, because it is a specific matter." The end of the quote, at least the part I was interested in. Well, given that the Slovenian Army has been waiting for everything since the end of the recruitment system and that it has somehow moved into the professional army to separate it from a professional one, as the Chief of Staff has done, we would certainly expect at least three steps to be taken. It is said that the Defence Act, its 88th paragraph, would be amended. Although this is planned in the normative plan of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Secondly, to exclude members of the permanent composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces from the system of public servants. Thirdly, the proposal of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army would contain key elements, the regulation of specifics of military service, such as those in comparable countries with Slovenia, in particular Germany and the United States. In order to change the rules of service in the Slovenian Army and to establish more precise cooperation or rules for the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in international operations in a specific law or by means of a sub-legislative act. This is actually what we expected, what was promised in some way, but of course it did not happen. I very much doubt that what we will somehow put into the process of adopting the law now, but if there are so many amendments, what will help make the Slovenian Army more attractive to future soldiers and soldiers. Today - I don't think anyone mentioned soldiers without an exception. So I highly doubt that we are on the right track. However, the only thing that can be seen from the fact that, at this point in time, it is the first task of the Slovenian Army to fight against Mr Virant is that it is the only thing that can be seen, or that it is the task of Minister Erjavac, to arrange this within the Slovenian Government and then with the amendments that would correct this issue, to go through the Defence Committee to go through the Parliament as well and that the law would then be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you. Member Robert Hrvat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Unlike some of my predecessors, I believe that this is an extremely important law and, nevertheless, a good law. The drafter of the law lists as the main objective the regulation of fundamental relations in the Slovenian Army. We have the Defense Act. The Service Act in the Slovenian Army, however, makes sense. Although the debate today was mainly or mainly about the salaries of soldiers, I think it is important to stress that the key question is whether we want a professional army or not. If we want to, and I think so, it is necessary to ensure appropriate conditions. I think there are three key elements to how the military can function better. First of all, we need to be able to attract Slovenians and Slovenians, the appropriate staff. And here it is, I think it's a very good solution in this marriage. This is a scholarship, so an autonomous scholarship system is being established to complete the permanent and contractual composition. Of course, this is separate from the public administration system. Then there is the next step in employment, where there is a need to ensure working conditions and adequate payment. The next thing is the regulation of service in the Slovenian Army and the law regulates matters. In my opinion, they're being regulated. It's exactly the kind of stuff that the soldiers are most alert to themselves. The area of discipline, command, promotion, advancement, transition to civilian life after 45 years of age, medical, psychological, spiritual care. All these are arrangements and all these arrangements are defined in this law that we are talking about today. And I believe that also because of these arrangements, any Slovenian or Slovenian national will choose to serve in the Slovenian Army, and this will clearly increase the interest in employment. I must say, as a member of the Defence Committee, I often meet members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. It must also be made clear from this point that the key issue they are alerting us to is certainly payment. So, he's paying Slovenian soldiers. These are the things we are most reminded of. Now it changes in some way the agreement in the public administration to get the Slovenian soldier a 20th pay grade, which means jumping for four pay grade. I believe that this is the first step, a necessary and important step. I believe, however, that, despite all these provisions in this law, it would be necessary to pay the soldier in some way to upgrade it to the extent possible. So all those members who have an increased workload or whatever I think would be very good. Consideration should also be given to the form and method of a more competitive way of awarding the Slovenian Army. Even though it's public servants. I myself believe that this is an extremely specific profession, which should be properly rewarded. I mentioned earlier that we're meeting soldiers, talking to soldiers and their experience. Their views on this issue are extremely critical. That's something to be warned about. I believe that the rules in this law, which we are dealing with in the first reading today, are good and are going in the direction I think employees in the Slovenian Army want. However, it would be wise to go to a second reading or to continue to consider that this is a specific profession, despite the fact that they are public servants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u79	Thank you. Member Anton Anderlich has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u80	Your Honor! I'm going to read one quote, two and a half years ago. The discussion was about how to complete the process of professionalisation in the Slovenian Army. Here, in particular, I think, when it comes to comparisons and experiences to France, Belgium, which have some experience, which would also be right in our defence system, in particular how to make a transition from a system based on general military obligations to a military made up of professional soldiers. Let me say that France took five years to make this transition, and we would like to do it as quickly as possible and complete it. Let me say that the Ministry of Defence is already using the experience of the Belgians, in particular, who have had severe difficulties in this transition and are learning from their experience not to repeat these mistakes. And then, probably, the assessments have changed where we are, how we're going to get to the goal faster, and I've discussed something earlier about what the Chief of Staff thinks. Here's another interesting flower. The Chief of Staff himself said that the Slovenian Army is still a long way from the professional army. That's why I prefer talking about the professional army. I am simply interested in this; How did you go to countries such as Germany, which still has handcuffs, not like Slovenia, which was in the initial phase, but probably when you started thinking about how you would do it? Or let's say Latvia and Estonia, which are as likely as we are at this stage as we are because they went through a similar process. And why not the two countries on which the government programme was based, on which it was based, ultimately, the concept advocated by the minister. This quote was made by ministers and, of course, I've already said that there's not much to give about these words, because once it's said so, then a law is drawn up, where something else is said. Comparisons are completely different, even with uncomparable countries. Experts point to this, read in Del, say, even in the regime's work last week, 14 days ago was a criticism of the incomparable countries and so on. That really surprised me. But I want a real answer to this question, because when a person reads, he really wants the best arrangements of this system, what is more useful to us, or comparisons with those countries that already have a tradition. In these two-and-a-half years, it has been possible to exchange experience with both the military and the ministry of some countries, and I know that this has been the case with our military and our ministry, a number of representatives from ministers, chiefs and so on from countries that are comparable to us and also visits from our side, but we are now referring to something else. Why, in fact, this derogation, and why is this comparison thus made? For I am sure that some things, like the other countries that I have spoken of now, would have regulated the participation of their army in peace operations, so that this would also be the case in our legislation. And I can't agree to that and that definition. I already quoted one today. I also hear from the representatives of the General Staff or the Slovenian Army and the Ministry that the soldiers like to go clearly because they compensate for the pay gap. I think that it is necessary to make a status to be interesting for soldiers who will primarily make up a defence part for Slovenian needs and, of course, to reward and build on the issue when it comes to operations abroad.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u81	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Aurelia Yuri to the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. Vice President! I'll add some thoughts to this debate myself. Recently, the delegation of the Defence Committee visited our battalion in Kosovo. That's a good impression. We've met officers, we've met with the local environment. We were at lunch with our soldiers and soldiers. We've met other army commanders. And they were happy with the grades they gave us, not of our kind, but of others. Estimates that say yes, and this is extremely encouraging that since the arrival of our soldiers and soldiers, incidents have been radically reduced to cooperate with other structures within the mission. We were very happy to have our boys' popularity and girls' popularity between the parties. On the one hand, members of the Albanian community have their own, they are grateful, for they also do much to help with small things, and this is of great importance. On the other hand, members of the Serbian community expect protection, if not Serbia, of course they will be ours. It's really professional and, like the locals, they're almost doing their mission. By the way, even the food story, I would like to commend her, because we ate together. The chef is Italian. Then there's no doubt he's doing well. At least that's my taste. But you know what's expected to happen in the end now. For now, the situation is calm, but tense, waiting for what will happen. It's gonna happen in a couple of weeks, maybe next week when G8 tops. Last but not least, when the decision on Kosovo's status falls on the United Nations Security Council. All this popularity of our boys and girls gives hope that even at the crucial moment when it comes, the flag will fall, what will happen in the future Kosovo, this will happen without bloodshed, which, of course, many fear, can happen the worst, but that ours will be able to manage this situation in the area of responsibility that they are covering. And so far, as far as we can tell, the motivation of our soldiers and soldiers is great. But that's conditional on the situation. If this changes, the worst can happen, this motivation will certainly not be the case. And we need to look to ensure that not only our members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces abroad, but also at home will be constantly motivated. As I said, on behalf of the parliamentary group, we believe that this law is an appropriate basis for improving the situation. But we expect that the ministry, together with us and the professional public, will take some time to look at, based on what we have written today, and also on the suggestions that have been given, what can be further improved. Because if we move forward with the product we have today, without any other improvements, it can happen to us, as much as we can praise it, that the effects we want and expect tomorrow will not be like that. And we will, we're still a year and a half in this term. At the end of the year, we will probably ask: What is the situation of fluctuation in the Slovenian Army? Are the completion plans continued, fulfilled, satisfied or not? At that time, however, we may have to listen to the calls for action by the Defence Act. For if the plans for completion are not fulfilled, then what I once suggested to the Minister will have to be realized. We need to consider accepting a smaller army, perhaps a better salary. If we can't have 8,500 of our troops in this system, it has to be carried out with a smaller one, or if it doesn't work out, maybe someone is thinking about getting back into the recruitment system. That's also the ultimate option. But we certainly need to make this situation better today and today. More ideas were very interesting with regard to taxes, on the benefit of the internship, on the other benefits that we can arrange, even if we want to have a story that still awaits us, this is the Law on the System of Salaries of Public Servants and will also have to be pressed by the Ministry of Defence and by the whole government also by the competent Minister of Virant. So there are some open questions but also open opportunities to do so. I expect that; as I said before, we will take time, for some time, or for holidays or on holidays, to organise such a debate, that under public pressure the Slovenian Armed Forces and representative trade unions and the Ministry of Defence and other civil society of course will speak. By listening to the proposaler's suggestions to go to the law this time, which will give us the effects we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u83	Thank you, too. But I call the Minister to his word. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. I am very pleased that all parliamentary groups have supported the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. In fact, some good ideas have also been expressed, in particular as regards compulsory supplementary pension insurance, regarding tax reliefs. However, I would like to say that, with regard to supplementary pension insurance, this is regulated by Article 60 of the proposed law in such a way that this solution is provided for in this law. With regard to tax reliefs, I must say that we have some bad experience in this National Assembly, when it was the turn of the tax package, we proposed some reliefs for our contractual soldiers. Sadly, the National Assembly at that time did not listen to our initiative. Same with firefighters who also seem to me to be an important element of national security. With regard to the debate on where an individual official in the Slovenian Army should occupy the city, for example, the Chief of Staff. That's what Mr. Squeakle was talking about. Let me say that this is a systemic issue that cannot be addressed by the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. I heard that after two years we finally have the Service Act in the Slovenian Army on the table. Let me remind you that this law was in the programme of the previous minister, that we waited four years at the time and that there was no law. So I'm glad that I was able to prepare this text in this mandate because it's complicated matter. Especially because there is a need for a lot of coordination within the defence system and a lot of coordination also outside the defence system. As you know, this law also touches the pay system at a certain point. I am sorry that today I have been criticised for the promise I made on the Defence Committee that we will expel soldiers from the public sector. The fact is that it is Minister Grizold and Bohinc who have put soldiers in the public sector and are included in the Public Sector Wages Act. And we can't change that with this law. It is necessary to amend the Law on the Public Sector Wage System and can then be excluded if there is agreement in this company. Personally, as Minister, I advocate that soldiers, professional soldiers who have contracts and are limited to 45 years in order not to be part of the public sector system, but to have a special position. However, I think it is this law that gives us the first drafts and that it will go in this direction, that actually those soldiers who are professional will not have the status of a civil servant, but that the contract will determine their status. There was also criticism about trade unions that the two unions supported, the union within the Ministry of Defence did not, and that membership was very important here. Let me say that the largest union, the Confederation of State Authorities, which has 4,000 members, we know that the military currently has 7,300 members, has supported this law. While the small union didn't support it. But my demands were unrealistic. They demanded 25% higher wages than the public sector. I think that it is clear that such a requirement does not have the opportunity to succeed, and 25% of the work-life benefits. I also owe Mr Squill an answer regarding the President of the country. Let me say that with the President of the country, other regulations regulate the matter of funerals with military honors. That is why this matter is not regulated in this law. Because in this law it is only for those who work and operate in the defence system. Regarding departures from the Slovenian Army, Mr Juri felt that too little had been done. However, it seems to me that we have found a great deal of solutions, at least as regards co-financing of an employer who would hire a soldier who can no longer perform this service, either because of disability or because he turned 45. In fact, we will in some way co-finance and encourage some entrepreneurship, as well as some independent activity, because, as the solution is envisaged, that soldier after the age of 45, who would decide to carry out a separate activity, would also be co-financed for five years, or would receive starting funds in this amount. Mr Bevk spoke about the website. Really, I agree that it will have to be updated, but not just that. I am sure that when this law is passed, a new promotion will also have to be made for the acquisition of new soldiers. Let me say that we are also preparing within the Ministry a reorganisation that would allow these procedures to be reduced and run faster than they are at this moment. I think the law itself is dealing with the real problems. This is also confirmed by Dr. Jelusič, the head of defence, who admits that we have faced and are dealing with real problems. But it is true that the adoption of this law alone will not solve all problems, but it will actually have to begin with the realization of all that is written here. That's a pretty tough job. It is also true that the law provides instruments to promote the interests of soldiers. It is true, however, that the Minister will have to fight within the Government for the interests of the Slovenian Armed Forces, because the regulations will allow those who may allow this wage upgrade, which, like the Government, will already accept as soldiers, will be in the 20th pay grade, but all those particular burdens will have to be worked out and all that makes this service specific and properly evaluated. I'm sure the Minister of Government will be able to exercise these interests. This is because the Government is responsible for fulfilling its obligations towards international organisations. For that reason, the government will not be able to afford, say, the acquisition of personnel. Getting soldiers wouldn't go as well as you'd like. If it does not work out differently, it will be necessary to pay for this service to be more attractive. There was also a question as to how the salaries of Italian soldiers and Slovenian soldiers were paid. I must say, as far as missions are concerned, wages are comparable. As far as home work is concerned, however, it is difficult to compare, since this tax system is slightly different. However, real wages in Italy or Italian soldiers are higher. While they're on missions -- I can tell -- these salaries are comparable. There were also some speeches about these forged certificates. That's what Mrs. Potter triggered. Let me tell you, we've identified 82 of these cases. However, it is necessary to know that in the 15 years, the system has filled quickly. In 1991 alone, there were 131 and 3900 employees at the end of 1991. This is said to be true if the night has grown and today the system of the Slovenian Armed Forces has 7,300 members, and the ministry, together with protection and rescue, has 8,600 employees. And even in the State Administration, it was not a practice to review the authenticity of the documents. We have acted in good faith that the document submitted is credible and has not been verified in university personnel services or in schools or has indeed been issued there. And now we're doing it. But there's a difference between the police because the police only had a cadet school and that abuse was a little bit more difficult. Because we have all these abuses at the fifth grade of education. I think there are only two high-level cases. With regard to relations and what was going on, I must say, in the Partnership for Development, when we coordinated on this subject, we corrected these dictions together because Dr. Jelusič and Dr. Prebelič's proposals were good. But we'll take another look if there's anything else that can be improved. So I think that this law is one good basis for further work in this area. However, I estimate that if this law is not allowed to cause problems, the problems in the Slovenian Army can only be deepened. So I am pleased with the support of Members, and I am also pleased to see that you are aware that one crucial moment has come when a few steps have to be taken. It is true, however, that when this law is passed, there is a very difficult and difficult work for those responsible at the Ministry to implement all of this into the defence system. That's not gonna be an easy task.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u85	Thank you. With the debate of the Minister, we have exhausted the expected debaters. We have two hours and three minutes left to discuss the subject. So, on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, I will ask for the notification of all those Members who wish to discuss this time. I'm asking you to sign up. Here you go! Five MEPs entered the debate. And I'm also asking the government's representative. I don't understand the silence. Five minutes to the MP. Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I also believe that the aforementioned Service Act in the Slovenian Army is a good basis for regulating issues related to service in the Slovenian Army. This is an extremely important matter for the Slovenian State and for any country. And I think that even further consideration will need to improve some things in favour of serving in the Slovenian Army being attractive and actually being the best members there. I am pleased that it is written that the fundamental principle applicable to the performance of military service is the membership of the Slovenian Army, the Slovenian State. Of course, this is perfectly logical and is what every country aspires to. In doing so, I would like to touch on what we have done or have done in this country, that awareness of belonging, national pride, patriotism and all this more among our people, and that, also on the basis of this increased patriotism, there will be significantly different civic education, belonging, young people will be better placed to serve in the Slovenian Army. We know a bunch of American movies made with this note to promote and sing praises to the American army. In our country-based structures, however, it is practically a joke in public. I know that a proposal for civic education has already been drawn up at the defence ministry in the previous term, and there has been a terrible public impact, particularly in the case of left-wings, on strong rejection, on jesting. And I think that those of you who then rejected your own minister and caused him to accept these proposals in public are responsible for the situation that is taking place today in the Slovenian Army regarding people's departure. We know that in the previous system our national heroes, Slovenia in fact, did not receive appropriate praise and appropriate promotion. There were only some, because history just started with a date. Even today, a classic national hero, such as Rudolf Maister, is virtually unknown to or unknown to young people. If you show an average high school graduate a picture of him, he doesn't know he's in a picture of Rudolf Master. This is a disgrace to our educational system and everything else. At the same time, I think that every hundred people know about the heroics of Slovenian officers, which happened where they were serving the army, because Slovenia belonged to different countries. Who knows today about the heroic act of self-sacrificing Sergei Mashera? But these things should be known. And if this membership of citizens, work for their own country through the system were more present, if leftists were not always and always opposed to putting Slovenian heroes from Slovenian history in the right place, the situation would be significantly better. Look, there's always some things going on that go against it. This conspiracy concerning the Owl, which has apparently been prepared somewhere, is a betrayal of a state of secrets known to those who should not know who are being put into the media. It's a carefully made script. Clearly, how to destroy a country if the Owl State-owned institution should no longer be able to carry out political tasks for a political option. In order to increase this membership of Slovenia among young people and then the situation will also be.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u87	Comrade Jerovšek, your time has run out.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u88	The Ministry of Defense will be able to do better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u89	Thank you, too. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Regarding the identification of Slovenian soldiers, generals, colleague Jerovšek said earlier that Rudolf Maistra virtually none of the high school students would recognize in the photograph. I think the result would be even worse if, say, the young people were to show a photograph of Slovenian Partisan General Jake Ašić. But let's put this aside. I said earlier that the ordinary Italian professional soldier in Kosovo has the same salary as the commander of our mission in Kosovo. But the minister said that the salaries in the missions were comparable. Of course they're comparable -- let's say, I don't know -- I'm talking about 1:4, 1:10. But they are not the same, which is essentially different. The Italian soldier also has a quadruple of his salary on a foreign mission - as stated on the Slovenian Armed Forces website - to pay for work abroad, to pay a professional soldier for work on foreign missions according to the type and area of work and to pay about four times the salary in the country. Even with the Italian soldier, it is about as if the starting point is larger. So I ask the Minister again: Is it true that the salaries in the missions are comparable, say, to Italian professional soldiers who are also there, because then practically our soldiers in the missions are very well paid? However, if the difference between the Italian soldier at home in Italy and the Slovenian soldier is so great here in Slovenia. I think you are wrong and that the salaries in the missions are very different between the different EU armies or, to put it more correctly, NATO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u91	Thank you, too. Member Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. I was reported, but I wasn't there when you called me, and I'd like to point out one more dilemma for a while. But I would start with this, because we're monitoring the matter, we can also get Members through more or less, through the media. I would say that the wages that are the most problematic part of this problem are actually problematic in this country from all sides. So if you listen, the judges say that they have too little wages, doctors say that they have too little wages, cops, more and more loud, then teachers, at the end of the day, even workers are far from satisfied with their salaries. We have now been following this debate about the law, the so-called small labour constitution, which awaits us in the next round here in the National Assembly. Does that mean who's actually happy with the salary? Apparently no one. But when people go into these professions, at least as far as the public administration is concerned, they all know what their salaries are and what their incomes will be if they decide to do so. So the salary isn't enormously high. Of course, it is regular, every month at this and that date, by not knowing whether or not the workers will be paying for another month. This is a big difference, but this does not mean that together we would not seek to improve these salaries simply in line with economic growth as much as a country can. I understand this proposal for a law that is before us today as a law that seeks this goal and has many good solutions. Of course, I listened to only a number of criticisms here this morning by the parliamentary groups and no authentic better proposals, which I am concerned about. If someone criticizes, then I would expect them to suggest what are the solutions that are absolutely better. It was also said that the coalition did not allow discussion of these problems. Yeah, we're not doing that today. What are we discussing today, if not today? And it was said that the coalition did not allow this debate. Of course, if we were to vote on all those proposals, we are also actually discussing the issues raised by the opposition to ministers. Only at this last session were fifteen such initiatives, and then the work of this National Assembly would be paralysed, because they would only deal with these topics, but they would not do what the National Assembly should actually do. That's basically the answer to this constant criticism, you're going to limit some democracy, debate, etc. Now what I'd like to warn myself. Today, one problem has already been pointed out. That's how far our soldiers go. This, however, was presented as a major material cost. That's true, but then somehow it also increases a little pay if four, five with one car drive to work, but I'm more concerned about something else. This is mostly about young men. It's about people who are in the family-making phase. From the north-eastern part of Slovenia they drive to Vipavo, Vrhniko, Ljubljana. This takes them a lot of time on this trip every day. They are also exposed to many dangers on this path. I think that, in the context of today's absence of what was once in Yugoslavia, the military would be stationed at those points where some potential danger was expected. I know she was. That's what the low military authorities said. There I served the army myself - it was the greatest, the most powerful. So, there is no longer this need in Slovenia to position the army somehow within Slovenian borders in the western part of the country, because we were finally attacked by all sides in the last century. So also from where it wasn't expected and so on. In the future, we would consider that these arrangements could be done in such a way that the soldiers would be deployed as close to home as possible. With this, of course, we had less time to travel to the workplace and thus helped create better, better opportunities for family creation. I wanted to draw attention to this dilemma because I think it's very, very problematic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u93	Thank you, too. I invite Ambassador Bredo Pecan to the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u94	Good day and thank you for saying so, Mr. Vice President! However, I am neither an admirer nor a great opposer of the Slovenian Army. Although you agree to demilitarisation yourself, in a situation where we decided years ago to professionalize or introduce professional military service in Slovenia, I believe that things should be handled in a way that works and that there would be no problems such as our army has now experienced. I believe that the ministry and the Minister himself are optimistic about the fact that the parliamentary groups are practically fully in favour of the law. However, I think it has been clear from the debates and also from the public that this law does not yet promise to significantly improve the situation, in particular as regards ensuring the completion of the Slovenian Army, and that in a year we will probably have to discuss again what to do in order to regulate this situation. I believe that the suggestion of some parliamentary groups, as well as of the professional public, was that the Defence Act should be pursued and revised, which would provide for a long time and a stable period of time all the necessary conditions for soldiers in the Slovenian Army to feel that they are in fact necessary and that they have some long-term security. It is easy to say that since soldiers are provided after the end of the 45th year - and let's say theoretically we could say - in the 25 years of military service, that they will receive paid contributions and probably also income for 5 years. At least I hope so. To be able to start some business activity. But nothing else. And you know, the payment of contributions for five years still does not mean that such a person is qualified, that he has a material basis, that he also has the knowledge necessary to be able to engage in some business activity. I believe that this law is particularly lacking in some solid, lasting, long-term basis, which has nothing to do with what the political option is currently in power, how much the Prime Minister of the Government and the Government is even interested in what the situation in the Slovenian Army is, but this should be determined by law, so that when a soldier comes into service in the Slovenian Army, he knows what he is going to do for the next 5 years, what he can expect for the next 25 years, and knows what he can expect and, above all, how reliable he can expect after his final service in the Slovenian Army. So I believe that talking about the need to increase the domestic consciousness and build the human resources development of the army on the fact that we will have a highly developed domestic consciousness is for me a floscule which will certainly not ensure a greater influx of personnel, young people into the Slovenian Army. That's one thing. The other thing is, of course, that wages are not the only factor that attracts people in a particular profession. However, when they are as low as those we can read online, then they are a factor and such a factor for sure, dear gentlemen, which depends on the Government's every will. If these soldiers are included in the recruitment of all public servants, which is not comparable for my terms, however, because one staff member with 25 years of working age is not comparable to a secondary school in the public administration with a Slovenian soldier who completed 25 years of service in the Slovenian army. I think this marriage needs not only a lot of corrections, but, above all, very strong crumbs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u95	Thank you very much. And the final discusser. Member Anton Anderlich has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u96	Mr. Sok first. I suppose he has a lot of work to do as mayor and doesn't know what his leader of the parliamentary group is signing, but 14 days ago, this leader, along with other coalition leaders, signed a request to withdraw the agenda item, which was legal, legitimate and in accordance with the programme. Decision on the establishment of working bodies in the National Assembly is included on the agenda. Not one, four points you've thrown down and there'll be no discussion about it. Okay. If you don't want to, then you're just proving that you don't want to settle issues. Otherwise, you don’t need to speak specifically if you don’t want to know. But I had to explain that not to stay because I don't believe - I say - you wanted to deceive and speak the truth on purpose. An untruth can be said otherwise. But let's go see the minister. You are already on the right track in the second half of your term to achieve the status of Mr Grizold and Bohinc. So it's the status of the former minister. What would you do in this place if they had already done everything? I believe you know that we changed the law in 2002 and 2004, when we told you that, Mr. Richtaj, and someone else. And that's when this status was made. Now you have the task of upgrading the system and preparing what needs to be prepared. The fact that you said something at the beginning of your term that you were saying something else today, and with an excuse that they had done something, I was saying, but since every government has the opportunity to change, as was then the Law on Defence amended by a large majority, not only by a two-thirds majority, it would probably be now, except for your partners who have expressed scepticism that it might be harder to change this law, but I, as I understand it, would not be a problem there either. You said that today you are not going to change it because you do not know whether or not even more, make a claim that you would not get support. Check that support, then report it. Come with solutions, with suggestions. On ministers, it is necessary for the Government to come in every mandate with the solutions necessary for that time and so on. Just as it was necessary to take certain measures, certain changes, upgrades, following the status of the Partnership for Peace before and after joining NATO, so it is also necessary in 2007 when we have clearly certain problems, problems and also targets that we want to achieve, and obviously we have not yet addressed them in a way that is effective and that those to which it relates should be satisfied with this status. This is your job, not what Grisold and Bohinc were doing - I don't know - when. It's a good thing you didn't go until 1991, and in 2000, there was another minister who was driving around the gym and so on. Everyone did something. And you have to do something, too. Otherwise, we probably wouldn't need a government if we had to do everything. I don't know when you'll be going back. But, say, you don't want to answer the question either; why don't you compare things with countries that are comparable to us by military structure, by transition, by time and so on. Do not answer the question; Why do you not want to specifically arrange cooperation, that is, reward and status for the time of participation in operations. You don't want to answer the question, but it's nothing unusual. Well, but, of course. In fact, I think a broader debate would be necessary here. And I was also talking about this in the beginning, why are the other countries from 1.5 to 7%, why am I 11? Here I have data - let's say - what it's like to participate, how it is with trends and so on. And even if Jerovšek was talking about consciousness, about national consciousness, go see who in Iraq is dying on the side of American soldiers - Mexicans, those who quickly naturalize them. On the Spanish side, they're naturalizing and sending them to the military. These are the conditions of today’s world. And we will probably have to face these issues, too, that only consciousness will not be enough, but rewards will have to be arranged for a longer period.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u97	Thank you very much! We have concluded the debate with this. I thank the Minister and his colleagues for their participation. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the Audit Society for the Audit of Accounting Statements of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005 and 2006. We have 49 minutes to discuss this point. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Commission for the supervision of the budget and other public finances for consideration by the assembly. I therefore give the floor to the Vice-President of the Commission, Mrs Bredi Pecan, for an additional explanation. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! I'll be very short. At its meeting on 18 May 2007, the Commission addressed the proposal for the selection of the audit firm for the audit of the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005 and 2006. It received a report or minutes on the opening of tenders made by the Commission appointed by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. Offers were collected by collecting bids because they are low-value contracts. The selected or proposed company was Abeceda Auditia, the audit firm and related services as the company that offered the lowest offer because the only criterion for selecting the tenderer was the lowest tender value. Therefore, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a decision to select Abeced Audit, Audit and related Services, d.o.o., Vienna Road 101, Ljubljana, to revise the accounts of the Court of Auditors for 2005 and 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u99	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ciril Testen will give his position to New Slovenia. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President! Messengers and Members! In accordance with the Public Procurement Act and pursuant to Article 31 of the Court of Auditors Act, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly carried out the procedure for selecting the most favourable tenderer to revise the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005 and 2006. In the New Slovenia Group, we will confirm the decision proposed by the Commission as a parent working body to monitor the budget and other public finances. We agree that the audit of the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005 and 2006 will be carried out by Abeda Audit d.o.o., Vienna Road 101, Ljubljana. Abeceda’s offer of audit was chosen as the cheapest, since it was the only criterion for selecting the most favourable bidder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Rudi Veršnik will give the position of the SDS Group. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all in attendance! The Supreme Audit House in Slovenia, such as the Court of Auditors, must also be monitored. Therefore, the services of the National Assembly called on all registered audit firms to submit tenders for the audit of the Court of Auditors for 2005 and 2006. Six companies responded and made offers. Among the six offers was the most expensive company Abeceda audit d.o.o. and in view of the tender criteria where the price is decisive, it is also accepted by the Commission for budgetary control as the most favourable as well as by the tendering committee itself. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have no comments on the selection process, nor on the choice of the most suitable bidder. We doubt, however, the quality of the implementation audit itself, since the selected bidder is the most expensive and even least known among all providers, while the two providers with significantly better references are equal but slightly more expensive. We are convinced that the lowest price is not always the most appropriate criteria. We should give greater emphasis to those criteria that raise the quality of service. In order to revise such an important audit institution as the Court of Auditors, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, they should revise known and recognised audit companies which have sufficiently verified and in particular experienced staff. The comments are made only for the reason that they are re-examined before the next invitation to tender and, if appropriate, amend the tendering conditions in terms of increasing the quality of the service. Otherwise, the Slovenian Democratic Parties support the selection of Abeceda, the audit firm d.o.o., as the audit house for the audit of the accounts of the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u103	Thank you, too. Colleague Milan Petek will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u104	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, just like other fellow Members and colleagues, we will not give this decision and this choice many and great words. The fact is that we are obliged to decide who will revise the accounts of the Court of Auditors of Slovenia for 2005 and 2006. We know what the procedure is for staying with the 31st Article of the Law on the Court of Auditors for this purpose is for the Commission to oversee the budget which proposes to the National Assembly the selection of the contractor. In this case, we have been informed that several tenders have been tendered. There were also many price differences among these providers. However, according to the key criterion, in fact, the only one and that the lowest price of the criteria for selecting the contractor is also met by Abeceda's audit from Ljubljana, which has indeed offered a significantly lower price than many or most other bidders. However, the fact that the tendering conditions require that the undertaking employs authorised auditors. It is obvious that the Abbeceda review meets the conditions under the law that its auditors are listed as auditors at the pardon, now I have forgotten the institution, but it is not essential - so they are included in the list of authorised auditors. Those conditions shall be met by the Institute of Audit. It meets these conditions. For this reason, we believe that there is no doubt that it is entrepreneurial to carry out an audit. However, we join some who feel that the criteria might also be to expand, to define with another criterion. However, we leave this to the continuation of this procedure. We think it's also possible to find some criteria here besides the one that was the only one in this case. So, the Liberal Democracy will support the proposed conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate of the Members and Members of Parliament who have been declared. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Cyril Testen. Thank you, and to the word I invite the Ambassador Rudi Veršnik - you give up. We have thus exhausted the list of Members and Members of Parliament who have been declared. But I'm asking the motioner, Mrs. Pecanova, would you like to speak? No, no, no. I also conclude this debate with this. The vote on the decision will take place today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the end of the 18th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This also interrupts this agenda item. And we're moving on to 18. At the agenda item, this is on the proposal of the SDS, NSI and SLA to obtain the opinion of the President of the State. We have 29 minutes at our disposal for this point. With regard to this item of the agenda, the College of the President of the National Assembly was informed at its meeting on 18 May of this year by the Legislative and Legal Service that the proposed decision submitted by the SDS, NSI and SLS on the proposal to obtain the opinion of the President of the State was not sufficiently specified or clear. Therefore, on the same day, we called on the applicants to clarify the proposal for a decision to be taken by the National Assembly. We have not received replies from the Group of Members, so I propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee should make a presentation of the views of the Group of Members and postpone the decision to one of the following meetings. This proposal cannot be discussed by Members and Members. The text may be obtained by representatives of the parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up. On behalf of the Group of Members, the leader of the Group of Ambassadors, Jože Tanko, the SDS Group of Ambassadors, will speak. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't think the statement you read is accurate. We have given an answer on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, or oral, and have also noted that in our view the question is also sufficiently clearly raised. I therefore propose that you first identify the actual situation before we discuss this point, because the response of the leaders of the three parties that requested this debate has been forwarded to the Cabinet of the President of the National Assembly and also the reasons why we are proposing or insisting that such a question is not being corrected.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u107	The decision of the College has been given to you, and I will not stand down. We continue to present our views on the procedural proposal. Member Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will support the proposal to postpone the decision today. I believe that this is a possible and correct proposal, given the fact that the well-respected applicants of the request for consideration of this point, despite a clear decision by the College of the National Assembly and, as far as I know, the letter from the President of the National Assembly, have not drafted a text of the decision which would be in accordance with the request of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have pointed to this fact since we placed this item on the agenda. I am not satisfied with the explanation of the leader of the SDS Group. If - Mr President, no offense - just a moment of attention please - if you would like to, then at least what it is, we must demand that we obtain the materials that have been transmitted. Members and Members must receive a letter which was sent to the presidents of the three groups with a request for a supplement so that we know exactly what the content is. And we need to get a response that the three parliamentary groups have sent. The last time it was said that the answer was written. Today it was said that the answer was oral. I don't even know what this is about. In any event, I say that the content of the decision, as proposed, is the same as the draft conclusions we received for the college meeting. And that at the College meeting it was found that the content did not correspond. For formal reasons, I do not think this point is capable of making a decision today. I agree with the proposal to postpone it to one of the following meetings. Once the relevant proposal for a decision has been submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u109	Thank you, too. Before I give my word to my colleague Joseph Horvath, allow me to repeat myself. The College of the National Assembly was informed on 18.5.2007 of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the letter. On the same day, 18.5.2007, the President of the National Assembly invited the proposers to submit a request for a point to supplement the decision, i.e. the material for hearing at today's meeting. And since we have not yet received this, you, Members and Members, have been proposed to put the matter, as I said, at one of the next meetings when we get the material. We are now discussing this procedural proposal. And like I said, they only have the opportunity to discuss the leaders of the groups of Members. And the last of those to be reported is Member Jožef Horvat on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Apparently, there's been a complication, whether you want it or not. To say that our decision, our proposal for a decision, is not accurate, that it is insufficiently specified, is misappropriation. Finally, we received a letter from the Office of the President of the State saying that he had learned from the media about our writings to the President of the National Assembly and had in fact submitted a very precise report on the procedures carried out by Dr. Janez Drnovšek, President of the State, in the direction of choosing the candidate for Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Once again, on behalf of the Group of Members, it is a matter of moving all those who speak of an indefinite decision. We will not support this procedural decision today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u111	Thank you. My friend Lakhovnik asked me to marry him. I will make his request for consideration, unless there are any Members who would object to his proposal. His proposal is to once again call on those parliamentary groups to identify themselves for a procedural proposal which they have missed for this reason or for whatever reason. I ask; Does anyone object to this proposal? Nobody. Then I ask the remaining leaders of the parliamentary groups: Do they wish to give their views? Yeah, I'll open the procedure. Comrade Lakhovnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President, for agreeing with our initiative. In our Group of Members, we estimate that the decision should be supplemented as it is. First, to reshape the question or initiative of the President of the State, as was also argued at the meeting of the College by Dr Cerar, who was invited to this college to give a legal opinion. Dr Cerar specifically pointed out that the question was not clearly formulated. If the National Assembly calls on the President of the State to give an opinion on the election of the Governor, the question is so broadly designed that the President of the State cannot answer it differently than very generally. That would make no sense. Therefore, if you really want to, then in such a case - according to my assessment - you have to complete the question by showing what exactly you want to ask the President of the country. It is possible, according to the Rules of Procedure, but it does not make sense, of course, at least according to our assessment; to ask some very general questions. It's -- let's say -- it's like asking about the state of the country. If it is very clear what this refers to, or if we want a general answer, then yes. In this case, it is difficult for me to imagine how the President of the country could respond very decisively to the best of will, except that he could give some general answer. This is particularly bad or difficult if there is no adequate material, as was also pointed out by the competent services. In any case, we are assessing that such a question is not meaningful in any way. If such a debate occurs, we will vote against such an initiative. Of course, we would expect a serious proposal to obtain at least some material. In this sense, we estimate that this is not actually the case today. At the very least, the whole matter needs to be postponed, especially given the fact that we are in the middle of the talks on the new candidate for governor and today - say - vote to call on the National Assembly of the President of the State to give an opinion on the election of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. At the same time, we are all leaders of the parliamentary groups invited to the same President of the country to be able to express our views and ask what we want, it seems very controversial to us, almost to be a little unrealistic. Therefore, we also call on the proposer to handle the matter properly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Given that this is the last point of content today before the vote and that we are not enough in the meeting room. If we are not gathered enough, I will carry out this vote in the framework of the votes. My friend Tanko. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Previously, on your proposal, which has actually passed the procedure, I have put forward a procedural proposal, which I now also justify. In fact, we received a letter from the President of the National Assembly on 18 May for an invitation to supplement. On 24 May, the leaders of the parliamentary groups, who were invited to prepare this proposal, also responded in writing. And I can read to you and I will also read about the letter you sent to us on 18 May 2007, in which the SDS, NSI and SLS members of Parliament are urged to clarify the question or decision to obtain an opinion from the President of the Republic regarding the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. We inform you that we believe that the proposed decision is appropriate and clear enough and that it does not need to be further clarified. The latter is also witnessed by the reply of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, in which they replied to the statements in our letter of 15.5. Thus, the parliamentary groups have given an appropriate response to the call, have identified the proposal. However, the opinion or proposal for a supplement given by the Legal and Legislative Service does not mean an agreement to deal with the item on the agenda, but only a proposal which we have received can be taken into account or not. And it is clear in this letter that the applicants agree that the opinion is clear enough. As regards the time dimension of the hearing, however, this requirement was referred to the National Assembly before these discussions took place. However, we still believe that the topic is still topical, that it is necessary to talk about it and that, because we were invited for the first time yesterday to talk to the President of the Republic, there is no way to conclude anything about how this situation will be resolved. And I propose that we hold a debate, as announced yesterday, according to what you gave us in the materials for today's agenda. From yesterday to today, nothing has changed completely in this area. I am therefore also surprised that you have read such a decision and such a proposal to address this point. In yesterday's reference, the script is completely different and I suggest we go back to the script.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u115	The leadership of the National Assembly has decided. The meeting of the National Assembly at this time shall be chaired by me and shall respect the will of the President of the National Assembly. As I said, in the framework of the votes, the National Assembly will first meet with a procedural proposal, namely to postpone the representation of the positions of the groups and the decision-making process to one of the next meetings. Until then, the assembly will be adjourned, which will be resumed in half an hour, at 3:55 p.m. Until then, good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're continuing our session of the National Assembly. We are moving to a vote on the procedural proposal to postpone the proposal of SDS, NSI and SLS to one of the next meetings of the assembly, on the basis of Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure. We're voting. The vote on the procedural proposal is under way. 61 Members and Members are present. 24 votes against 36. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 36.]] I find that the procedural proposal is not adopted. That is why we are moving on to the 18th item of the agenda - this is for the consideration of the proposal of the applicants that you received on the bench. I give the text first to the representative of the applicants for further explanation. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. These unnecessary complications are, I think, quite appropriate to address this point. It should be said that, for the first time in this mandate, we are faced with problems relating to the appointment to the most responsible functions in the country. For the President of the Republic has not twice received support in secret vote in favour of his proposal for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Although some of the parliamentary groups have clearly identified themselves in public to support both candidates, the number of votes did not correspond to the forecasts. This was particularly evident in the vote on the second candidate for Governor, Mr Rant, who received only 32 votes. Once again, the secret vote has shown that no one can say with certainty how his group will vote. Therefore, it is important to approach and obtain wider support for candidates to be sent to the appointment process. In the last two months, several candidates - as we have also been informed - have also refused or rejected the offer for the candidacy, mainly from the media. This shows that the President of the Republic-State Assembly has come up with an obstacle. A complication has arisen, a situation that is not productive, which does not bring results and may also bring unnecessary personal disappointments to candidates who are either not supportive or unwilling to take risks because of the unpredictability of the procedure, or even though they have applied for an invitation to tender, were not even invited to an interview. We believe that this situation is a viable one and that only those directly associated with these human resources appointments can be resolved by talking about it. This is in this case the President of the Republic and the National Assembly. That's what the Constitution allows. This is made possible by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Although both acts have established a firm legal basis for obtaining an opinion, the proposal by the SDS, NSI and SLS understands it primarily as an opportunity for a calm, direct and responsible search for a way out of the unpleasant or awkward situation of two independent institutions - institutions of the President of the Republic and the National Assembly. The reaction of the President of the Republic is also expected to be understood by the explanations and comments of some lawyers and former politicians, as the President can in his opinion greatly help to find the best solution in the selection procedures and, in particular, the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. We are convinced that in this situation this is the right way to solve the problem and to calm the situation, and that we would also pursue the path and approach for the following human resources procedures, which will follow us in the National Assembly and in which both the President of the Republic and the National Assembly are faced. We are confident that the possibility and opportunity for both institutions to make use of this will be offered to clarify the situation which, according to the most visible constitutional lawyers, is also due to unclear, incomplete, inconsistent, non-systemic constitutional and legal arrangements. We expect that the proposal from SDS, NSI and SLS members will also receive adequate support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u118	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Lahovnik has the floor on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u119	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! In our parliamentary group, we will oppose such a proposal for both procedural and purely substantive reasons. As the legal expert who was invited to the meeting of the College was finally himself, procedurally, he warned that such an invitation was unclear and that it was difficult for the President of the State to answer a question or initiative. Let him present an opinion on the election of the governor. This is a general call that can only come up with a general response, and it makes no sense. In particular, it should be pointed out that this week is the week in which the leaders of the Group are holding talks with the President of the State on the election of the Governor. And to call on the President of the country to present an opinion on the election of the Governor, while the leaders of the groups of Members are meeting with him and are able to express their views, to hear the President's opinion, it is a little unserious. And in our parliamentary group, we estimate that it would be correct for the proposer to withdraw this proposal. However, the substantive reasons can be discussed, but the fact is that we have already had two proposals to elect the Governor on two very high-quality candidates, that they were both rejected, that the names of two very good candidates, Dr Dark and Dr Marble, had appeared in the meantime, and that again came under considerable disapproval by some of the members. And the fact is that the complication of the election of the Governor of Banka Slovenije was created in the National Assembly and it seems simple to us that the National Assembly is now calling on the President of the State to adopt an opinion on the complication that we have actually caused here alone in the National Assembly. At the same time, discussions are taking place all the time, in the last period, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, today is Thursday; and we do not really see any sense that at the same time the additional president of the country is being called on to prepare an answer on something legal experts point out that there is no clear answer at all. What else is this about, then, a purely political game? We believe that this is inappropriate, even disrespectful and irresponsible to the institution of the President of the State. The President of the State has been elected to democratic elections, directly and we believe that the National Assembly has much different work than to deal with such political games. We will therefore oppose such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u121	Your Honors are here! We believe in communication within the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties. We believe that there is a need for communication between the various branches of government, and not least between the President of the country and Parliament, especially when we are pursuing the same objective. I would like to believe, but I'm afraid I'm naive to say that the aim of Slovenian politics is to find a new, high-quality Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. I'd like to believe it, but I'm probably naive if I want to or if I believe it. In the National Party's Group, we estimate that the experiment introduced into the National Assembly of SDS, NSI and the Slovenian People's Party is an attempt, on the one hand, to discredit the President of the State and on the other hand to attribute the dependence of the National Assembly to the exclusive Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And of course, we cannot give our vote to such aspirations in the National Party. We believe that the National Assembly is autonomous, and we believe that everyone, all of you, honourable Members and Members of the ruling party, should be solely bound to themselves in their decisions, not to the wishes of the President of the Government. I know in advance that, as soon as a non-self-servicing decision is reached, as you propose to receive today, this will result in negative advertising. However, we have witnessed this fact many times in the past, not only in our country, but mainly in the Soviet Union and have called it agitating. It is not worth that the National Assembly appoints itself, its branch of power, to the extent that it truly takes into account the exclusive will of the President of the Government in all the decision-making elements. My purpose today is only to try after two and a half years to realize that you, honourable Members and Members of the ruling majority, as well as, of course, the opposition, have been elected in the elections, that you have received the confidence of voters and voters and that the President of the Government has been loved in the National Assembly, not in the elections. And the whole responsibility and credibility of today is on you I do not believe in such disputes as we are witnessing in our country today, there are many more important challenges ahead of us and there are far more important projects ahead of us, that is, in front of the country, the Republic of Slovenia, so that the National Assembly can enter this battle or fight that will not produce anything good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u122	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We will decide on a decision that requires the President of the country to give us his opinion within 15 days. This is permitted by the Constitution, this is also allowed by the Rules of Procedure, but in the DeSUS Group we consider that it is good to separate between the permissive and the wise. All that is permissible is not "eo ipso", in itself already well, and we estimate that this call is a call that is nervous, which is slightly felt, only increases. Therefore, clearly, we will not support this proposal, as we did not support the proposal or the first call, under which we were first signed, and then, by means of a readjustment varnish, we have not supported the inclusion of this point on the agenda of the meeting. We estimate that President Drnovšek made his views clear as well as his explanations. Of course, he explained what he had to explain - he explained why he felt that a candidate was appropriate. There is no specific provision in which it should state why it should explain its position on the candidates of others or on those which it has not classified as potential candidates. That's why we think we're "knocking on his sleeve" without actually being allowed to. What he was obliged to do was done, and we in the DeSUS Group respect this sovereignty, both as President of the State and as President of the State, and personally, do not take into account that sometimes we, too, are not most pleased with his gesture or perhaps his gesture, but the President has been elected, the President enjoys a great reputation in the public, he also has great support in public research and there is no reason to try to break it with special parliamentary procedures. Because, I repeat for others in fact, it is expected that the candidate who is now appearing, however, would have been elected in the National Assembly, we feel it would be wiser to put out the fire and be satisfied that we are getting what we want, so that we will get the Governor, who has a positive attitude over and over again, and perhaps we will forget about past disputes that some would not like to forget. Therefore, the DeSUS Group will certainly not support this call or a proposal for a decision to request the President to communicate his position within 15 days.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u124	Thank you. Mr Jože Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. The two independent institutions involved in the appointment process of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, namely the President of the Republic and the National Assembly, have not been able to complete the procedure in time to enable the appointment of the Governor and also to assume the responsibilities and functions or also to authorize. The reason for this situation is not unique and cannot be attributed only to one or the other parties, for each of these two parties acted within the framework of its constitutional and legal powers and competences. Despite the fact that both of them acted on the basis of these criteria, there was no result. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we assume that the reason is most likely in the chosen technology of work, that there has been insufficient communication between the two institutions, among which there has not been a timely contact. The Group of Members has also taken the initiative on several occasions to address difficult and, above all, sensitive human resources issues in which conflicts between institutions can arise on the basis of legal arrangements. We believe that there is a substantial need for greater efforts to be made in the procedures before the formal proposal is formulated and that this will also significantly improve the choice of candidates. This requirement for discussion is also an opportunity to speak, or also to discuss, the legal regime, including the delimitation between the powers conferred by law both on the President and the National Assembly, and I think we can draw good conclusions on the basis of this debate, both for the area of conduct in the future and for any change or correction of certain legal solutions. We will support this proposal in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u126	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We will not support the Social Democrats for the proposal. In a formal sense, all reasoned opinions have already been made on why the proposal for a decision does not meet the conditions, and I would like to add only one more, a new practice is in place, whereby the President's authority does not apply to the three largest groups of Members. For if the President of the National Assembly writes that "I call on you and ask you to complete this requirement", then failure to comply with this requirement means that the decision and the preparation of the decision is not final and cannot be decided on. This applies to all of us who have to respect the President's decisions, except for the three largest parties. More importantly, the proposal makes no sense. An opinion on the appointment of the Governor should be requested from the President. I think that the opinion on the appointment of the governor will have to give this moment to the National Assembly. For we have a proposal - or we will have, after consultations, a new candidate for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, and we will have to give a positive or negative opinion on this and appoint it or not. At the same time, asking what is the opinion of the President of the Republic is pure nonsense and I cannot understand it. Not to say that the opinion on how the procedures have been conducted so far is fully known to the public, but to this Assembly or to the parliamentary groups, as the services of the President have given a sufficiently thorough explanation of how the appointments have been made so far, what were the proposals for why the result has not been successful. So it's just that it's not a problem, because colleagues and colleagues in the coalition wouldn't know what the position of the President's Office is, it's a matter of prestige, you have to give this answer with the name and surname of the President of the country, then you're probably satisfied. It is therefore a prestigious battle between the two institutions in which the coalition Members, apart from DeSUS, want to demonstrate their power, and you forget that, among other things, not only substantive but also politically, it is not in your favour. The dispute with the President of the State, not only the President of the Government, but also the ruling coalition, is to your detriment because it shows the inability to manage and create ever-increasing conflicts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u128	Thank you. Mr Aleš Gulič will present the views of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u129	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have, of course, stated our opinion on this request by proposing that it withdraw from the agenda of this meeting. There are two reasons: one is formal, because in fact it requires a matter that cannot be required because it is not linked to any item in the agenda; the other, of course, more important, is substantive. In fact, the President must give an opinion on what he has done, but he certainly does not have to explain what he has not done or what he has not done. These are essential differences. Here we actually have a fight between the two sides. One is the government that represents it, obviously, the coalition part of Parliament, and the other is the president elected in the direct elections by the electorates. Despite the fact that this matter is not only taking place here in Parliament but also in the public eye, and that the image of the President is also better, better accepted every day in public, but still an attempt at anathemaisation continues in such a way that it is actually looking for trinkets that could tarnish his name. There's no respect for the President's Institute anymore. On the other hand, it now seems that there is something else to be learned or that there is another relationship to be fixed. So, it's as if the laws are written in names or as if the corrections should be written for names that currently hold some of the functions in the Republic of Slovenia. That's a long way from democracy, from a state of order. Many things have been shown in these small presentations, and I think this certainly does not raise the reputation of the State, not of the State institutions, not of Parliament. Of course, in the Liberal Democracy we will oppose this strange demand. Also because of the end of the conversation, a smart gardener stops watering when it starts to rain.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! We, in the New Slovenia Group, will support the proposal for a decision that we have drawn up by the signatories. On the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, this requires the President of the Republic to refer to the National Assembly, the manner is the President's choice, the opinion regarding the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. In a discussion with the President of the country yesterday, the President did not raise the issue of the ambiguity of this decision. We also wrote in our application for a first-round candidate, Dr. Jazbec. We now know the position of Mr President. It is that the candidate is too young and the president will not propose it. This is the President's legitimate assessment, and it's going to be absolutely respected. Let me just remind you that in the previous millennium, in another country, of course, we were extremely proud to have, from the Slovenians, a record young president of the SFRJ Presidency and a record young vice-governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. If it is our writing, our request has encouraged the President of the Republic to simply call on the parliamentary groups to discuss support for the candidate he has now chosen, then we conclude that the matter is finally going in the right direction. We want more communication between the President of the Republic and between the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u132	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a decision on the following motion for a decision that you received today at the bench, which reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia requests the President of the Republic to forward an opinion within 15 days to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia." We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 30. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the takeover law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on acquisitions is not suitable for further consideration." I am opening an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We will vote against the proposed decision in the Group of Social Democrats. We estimate that it is necessary to accept what the State Council proposes, as well as to expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to extend the issue of takeover legislation. This is about clear acquisitions in the Slovenian economy in recent months, in recent weeks. The law, which is proposed along with the other necessary supplements, would certainly better regulate this area. Therefore, in Social Democracy, we estimate that the Government has a responsibility to regulate the area of acquisitions more adequately, to prevent the financing of acquisitions by the take-over company, by providing either a guarantee of the share of the company that is yet to be taken over, and in this way we have a situation which in Slovenia means, above all, that during the so-called third phase of privatisation, will come as quickly as possible, as Mr Janš says, and hence as cheaply as possible. If the Mercator affair is to be repeated in the Istrabenz affair and in other preparatory affairs, the costs will be borne by small shareholders on the one hand, and on the other hand pensioners who will not receive from the Capital Fund of Pension and Disability Property what they could get, and of course also for denationalisation beneficiaries will have to be added from the State budget to the Slovenian Compensation Society. This is a serious issue, and we therefore believe that it would be reasonable to adopt this law and, at the same time, to discuss further how to complement the takeover legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u134	Thank you. What interest in explanation in his own name? No, no, no. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 19. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were tabled in the second reading, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted at the home office, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 3. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 14th item of the agenda - this is the first reading of the proposal of the Service Law in the Slovenian Army. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Service Law in the Slovenian Army, first reading, is suitable for further consideration." I am opening an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Aurelio Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u135	Thank you, President. Once again, let me repeat what we have already said when the point is being considered. Social Democrats as representatives of left-wing people, who are sometimes a very difficult bite in the stomach, I say that we will support the law. We have cooperated, as Mr Minister has himself acknowledged, within the framework of the Partnership for Development in Co-forming - we are not most pleased with what the proposer has accepted from the package of our suggestions - and we will also participate in further consideration. As leftists, we expect the majority of the coalition to support the proposal if it is to assess the need for a wider public hearing to be carried out in order to make the most of the profession, namely the Slovenian Army, say more about this bill and contribute to its improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u136	Thank you. Is there a desire to explain your voice in your own name? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Defence Committee as the parent working body for a second reading. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the audit firm for the audit of the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005 and 2006. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "To revise the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005 and 2006 Abeceda Auditia, audit firm and related services, d.o.o., Danube road 110, Ljubljana is selected." We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Internal Agreement between the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States meeting within the framework of the Council, on the financing of Community aid under the Multi-annual Financial Framework for the period 2008-2013, in accordance with the ACP-EC Partnership Agreement and on the granting of financial assistance to overseas countries and territories, to which Part 4 of the EC Treaty applies. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, this is on the defence proposal for a law on the ratification of agreements on development cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to submit an amendment in the third reading of the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 1. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT IS AT THE CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL RELEVANT WORDS OF THE LAW. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Confirm the officially consolidated text of the Judicial Register Act." We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the officially purified text of that law has been confirmed. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "A formal consolidated text of the Law on the Return of Investments to the Public Telecommunications Network shall be confirmed." We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to continuation of the 20th agenda item on Mandate-Voluntary matters. You have a procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that point 20G and point 20H, this is the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, both of which are the same content, the title of the point, are the same content to decide on this decision at one of the following meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u138	You have heard a procedural proposal to transfer the vote under points G and H to one of the following meetings. Does any of the members of the Group wish to present their position? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u139	Thank you very much. No explanation was given by Mr President. I am also a member of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, and I know that, Mr President, twice, three times, we have, in short, made appropriate proposals in the procedure and this time reached the necessary absolute majority on the Mandate-Electorial Commission to ensure that the Programme Council is complemented. That's why I don't see and understand why we should put that down.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u140	Thank you. Would any of the other MPs want it? Ms Shirca, on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u141	I would point out that this agony in filling four, now a little less, vacant places in the programming world has been going on for so long that I understand that purpose is what it is. And this situation is certainly very critical and it also revolves around in very strange constellations. Now that there is no longer a need for a "leaning" in support of the members of the programme board, after all, candidates are becoming less and less hopeful to join these candidates at all. There is now a completely abnormal situation when candidates are still being proposed, which the National Assembly eventually rejects. Actually, I could put up a certain analogy. If the President of the country kept repeating and proposing to Mitja Gaspari, who once rejected the National Assembly, we would be told that there had been no consultations and that there had been no consolidation and we would also say what was going on and how strange that President of State was. Now we have a proposal. Kviaz has set out two proposals. We also told Quiaz how we feel about these proposals. And it is more than normal for this agony of filling the programming world to end once and for all, we see no reason why we should not do so today.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u142	Thank you. We are moving to a vote on a procedural proposal. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 15. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. That is why the vote under point G and H will be held at one of the following meetings. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the following proposals, first of all, to the consideration of the Proposal for Decisions appointing the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] The proposal was submitted to the assembly by the SDS Members' Groups, the LDS Member Club, the Unaffiliated Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to appoint presidents and vice-presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the election of the President and of the two members of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of security and intelligence services. The proposal was submitted to the SDS and NP Group for consideration. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of the President and two members of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of security and intelligence services. In doing so, I inform you that, on the basis of Article 10 of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, if a majority of all Members vote for it, that is 46 or more. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member and the election of two members of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the law on the prevention of corruption. The proposal was submitted to the LDS and NP Group for consideration. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member and the election of two members of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the Prevention of Corruption Act. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the Ombudsman's proposal to appoint a Deputy Ombudsman to propose a decision. The Ombudsman submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of magi. Cornelius Marzel as Deputy Ombudsman for a period of six years. I give the floor to the Ombudsman, Dr Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, for reasons of the application. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u143	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to point out that the whole procedure for the appointment of the candidate has been legal. Even though the law does not require me to do so, I have decided to extend a public invitation to the candidates. It was a big turnout. However, many good experts have been reported, and the decision to appoint one person has been very difficult. During the final phase of my choice, I decided between three very different candidates, each offering a different perspective, academic knowledge and reference, or long-standing experience in the field of human rights, or direct experience in solving people's problems. It would be ideal if all of this were to be combined in one person, but there was no such candidate among the applicants. From my experience, tomorrow will be 100 days in the post of Ombudsman, I think it is very important to have a man in this position who knows very well the operational work in which the key to solving people's specific life problems is. When I made my own decision to appoint a candidate as a magician. I also looked into Cornelia Marzel for people who know her professional work very well. They all unanimously told me that it was a capable, working and determined person that I could trust. None of them knew anything about her that would arouse doubts about her expertise or personality traits. The various provocations that have tried to discredit her, and indirectly to me as a proponent, have also adopted with the right degree of criticism and self-criticism and personal maturity. At the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, her candidacy was confirmed without a vote against. The Group did not propose any additional talks or presentations, so I believe that there is not much confusion about the candidate. Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate that you have trusted me, so please also trust my proposal for a deputy.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u144	Thank you. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which informed the assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for a decision. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President of the National Assembly, the distinguished Lady of the Ombudsman, the honourable Members and Members. In the Social Democrats Group, we will be candidates for the Deputy Ombudsman of Magi. Cornelia Marzel's been backed. We hope that this time the practice of the National Assembly will be different from that of the two candidates who we rejected a few months ago, which has caused the Ombudsman to be a single deputy in the Office for several months, although the Human Rights Ombudsman Act provides that the Ombudsman has at least two and a maximum of four deputies. We respect the provisions of the Law on the Ombudsman, which give the Ombudsman the right to propose to the National Assembly of Deputies. The reference to greater certainty of the election if a preliminary consultation was carried out with the parliamentary groups, however, is unconvincing in the light of other experience with the predictability of the outcome of the election despite the promised support. We still regret that an excellent and experienced candidate, who was also among the more than 20 applicants, Mr Jernej Rovšek, was not proposed, but, as we say, we respect the sovereign choice of Dr Zdenka Čebašek Travnik. With the great support that she received in her election, the Ombudsman has no doubt given herself a great responsibility to make a weighty decision about who will help her in her work. In the Group of Social Democrats, we want to have a happy hand with this and with all the following choices, especially for the benefit of all those who turn to the Ombudsman's institution for help. This is all the more important at a time when the demands for the Ombudsman's institution are advertised by more and more groups, and because of the well-established situation of the Ombudsman's institution, as enshrined in the law already mentioned, and in the general view that it does not show the competence to crush, it is expected that this institution will remain so established that individual deputies can assist the Ombudsman to the best extent possible in its responsible work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u146	Thank you. We have completed the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and, since there are no reports to the debate, I am concluding and moving on to a decision-making process. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the appointment of mags. Cornelius Marzel as Deputy Ombudsman for a period of six years. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The choir is a mag. He appointed Cornelia Marzel as the Deputy Guardian of Human Rights, so I ask her to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u147	I swear to do my duty under the Constitution and the law, to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, to carry out my work conscientiously and impartially, while respecting the principles of justice and good governance. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u148	Mrs. Cornelia Marzel, we want a successful job. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal of the Judicial Council for election to a judicial function. The Council of State submitted 14 proposals to the Assembly for the election of candidates and candidates for judicial office for the seven District Courts and District Courts at the District Court in Celje, Maribor, the District Court in the Slovenian Konjice, the Smaraje Executive Department at Jelšah, Velenj and Murski Sobota, four District Judges and District Court in Celje, Novi Gorica, Koper and the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana and the Supreme Court of Justice at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly and submitted proposals for conclusions. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Alenka Karlaš to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Celje. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms. Alenka Golčar to the District Court in the District Court of Maribor. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Darinka Kobalej Šteharnik at the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Klavdija Praha to the district court in the District Court in Slovenski Konjica, executive section. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Aleksandra Petrovič to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Šmarje pri Jelšah. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 57 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Danice Vezočnik Kranjc at the district court seat of the District Court in Velenje. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 55 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Dusan Erjavac at the District Court in Celje. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 56 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Silvana Pavlin Kuščer to the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Novi Gorica. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 57 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Aleksandre Hočevar Vinski to the judicial seat of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 57 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Andre Šraml as a judge of the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 57 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Jolanka Horvat to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Murska Sobota. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 56 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Petra Leskovic Potočnik to the court seat of the District Court in the District Court in Koper. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 55 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Tatjane Stojković Pavlovec to the court seat of the District Court in the District Court in Koper. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Mark Friend to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Council of Justice for the appointment of a Supreme Court Judge at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia with a proposal for a decision. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of Mr Peter Golob to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which informed the assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for a decision. The panellists are not present, so we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision appointing Mr Peter Golob to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Under point G and H, we will decide at one of the following meetings. We are therefore going to consider the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President and Vice-President and members and alternate members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in order to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, who participated in the preparation and implementation of the purchase of light armoured wheeled vehicles 6x6, government aircraft, hawbic 155 millimetres, ACCS fire management system, Pilatus aircraft and the renewal of T55-S tanks financed under the basic development programmes of the defence forces of the Republic of Slovenia in 1994-2007, because of the suspicion that the transactions were politically negotiated, operated in a non-transparent manner and that they were non-economic and because of the suspicion of the presence of customerism and corruption and the suspicion of the responsibility of the holders of public functions in disarming the former territorial defence. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to Jozet Tank to present the position of the SDS Group. [[He's quitting.]] There are no other panellists, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that investigative commission. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 4th item of the agenda - third reading of the Proposal for a Consumer Protection Act against Unfair Business Practices. On Wednesday 30 May 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, amendments cannot be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that I have not been warned by the Rule of Law or by the Government that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would have made the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 28th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Have a nice day!
