ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 28th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Davorin Terčon, Jožef Jerovšek, Stanislav Brenčič, Ljubo Germič from 3 p.m. to 2 p.m. and Mr Geza Juban. We're moving to seven. Period of the day - Second defense of the bill of opportunity for acquittal. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! The draft law on optional coins was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 15.3. this year and sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. On 16 May 2007, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy adopted two amendments on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, drawing up the current text of the bill. Until the introduction of the euro as the currency of the Republic of Slovenia, the current Act on Sample Coins regulated the issuance of optional coins in an appropriate manner. The proposal for a law on casual coins, which is currently under consideration, does not change the basis or basis for the issue of optional coins. The opportunity coins will also be issued in the future at events of general importance for the Republic of Slovenia or events of wider international importance to be determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The novelty of the bill is the division of the optional coins into commemorative and collector coins in accordance with the established designation or division in the rules of the European Union. Thus, the commemorative coins, by dimensions and physical and chemical characteristics, will be equivalent to 2 euro exchange coins. Remembrance coins will also be a legal means of payment in all euro area Member States. They will have a euro side of coins for 2 euros and a national side to mark an event of general importance for the Republic of Slovenia or of wider international importance. Collector coins will be made of gold, silver or metal to be determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and will be a legal means of payment only in the Republic of Slovenia, while elsewhere they will represent numismatic value. Their nominal value will be expressed in euros, but it must not be the same as the value of euro coins. After consulting the Member States of the European Union, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will determine the appearance of the optional coins. The procedure for consultation with the Member States of the European Union is prescribed, but Slovenia will not be obliged to take account of the opinions of the other Member States. The amount of the annual emissions of the optional coins will be determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Bank of Slovenia following the prior approval of the European Central Bank. In the future, Banka Slovenije is expected to carry out professional and technical tasks related to the issue of optional coins on the basis of a contract to be concluded by the Ministry of Finance on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia with Banka Slovenije. The Governor of Banka Slovenije, in agreement with the Minister responsible for finance, will appoint a commission to issue the occasional coins in order to carry out all activities for the issue of informal coins. The Bank of Slovenia will be responsible for overseeing the implementation of this law in accordance with the law governing the operation of the Bank of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 105 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the proposal for a law was sent to the European Central Bank, which in its opinion made some comments which were taken into account in the current text of the bill. Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that the proposal for the Law on spot coins is appropriate and therefore proposes to the National Assembly to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u3	Thank you to the Secretary of State in the Cabinet, Mr Andre Shirtzl. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I welcome it all very well. At its 26th meeting, on 16 May, the Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy considered, as a working body, the proposal of the Law on Occasional Coins submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for its consideration and acceptance. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service with comments on the provisions of Articles 1, 4, 5, 11 and 12. The Committee took note of the comments when setting up both amendments to the Committee, which were later adopted. Pending the expiry of the business deadline, qualified candidates, i.e. the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, the amendments tabled on 14.5.2007, the four amendments to Article 4, the two at Article 5 and the amendments to Article 8, 9 were tabled. Articles 11 and 12 of the proposed law. In particular, these proposals defined certain specificities and were intended to delete part of the text, for example in Article 4, that the commemorative coin should have a 12-star symbol, should not introduce a legal restriction on the issue of commemorative coins only on one occasion per year, in order to delete the text on compulsory consultation with the members of the European Community on the symbolic side of commemorative coins and also some other comments. As the representative of the proponents or the Government has already said, the basic feature in the bill is the division of the optional coins into memorial and collector coins and, of course, the content of previous laws is retained in some way. The debate was devoted to the consideration of the amendments presented or defended by the leader of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, who is an expert in this field. It expressed its concerns about the general relationship of the competent authorities to the subject under consideration and, in so doing, highlighted the apparent lack of knowledge of, in particular, the financial remuneration of such issues for the benefit of the State. In addition to the additional explanation provided, he pointed out in the opinion that the legal proposal was fundamentally flawed or incomplete. Nevertheless, the proposed amendments were not accepted by the committee. However, it adopted amendments to Articles 4 and 12 following the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service. The Committee has thus drawn up an updated proposal for a law in accordance with Article 133 and proposes that this State Assembly adopt it. However, as this law was not introduced into the schedule of the National Assembly programme for May 2007, the Committee also adopted a decision to propose that this item of the agenda should also be added to the draft agenda for the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. This is called the proposal of the Law on Sample Coins, the second consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honors are here! At the outset, I think there are some basic matters to be said about this law. For, according to the Slovenian National Party, the law is not good enough, and would be accepted. But he's certainly not worth being included in the May session. It's kind of made over our thumb just to have it here today. I believe that for you some who are on this subject, I will say, she is a fugitive to you, you may find it appropriate to deal with this today because you have not been sufficiently absorbed in the content of the law itself. But as you know, at least some in the Slovenian National Party are quite serious about collecting and numismatics. If matters are not prepared in accordance with the European direction, I believe that in this case, or I am sure that in this case, the Slovenian National Party will vote against the adoption of such a superficial law. The Ministry of Finance has shown incompetence and complete ignorance of the topic of both collectors and informal coins, as has been shown throughout the work of Ministry of Finance representatives on the Commission for the issue of informal coins. Those who do not know, the President and the leader of the Group of Members, Mr Jelinčič, has been a member of this Commission for some time, but only for as long as he has worked with this Commission. However, when he began to draw attention to the errors, the inadequacies that were taking place on this committee were simply excluded. There are also statements on this committee, such as one of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, when she said that we do not need informal coins in the Republic of Slovenia at all. It is said that in our country, either Europe or the European Union, so few things are happening that we do not need to issue optional coins in Slovenia. The fact is that this person who has declared this does not know the financial side of the issue of individual coins and not the content that is supposed to be on individual optional coins. For example, Germany issued EUR-set of Slovenian coins at a nominal value of 3.80 euros. However, she sold totals of €11. This is the financial side that someone doesn't want or can't understand. In many cases, marriage is extremely controversial, incomplete. Today we will also accept or vote on some of the amendments prepared by the Slovenian National Party and in all respects, when we talk about casual coins, we will improve the law as such. First of all, it is necessary to say that the law is incomplete in the name of the euro itself and in the coins, because they do not take into account Slovenian inclinations. Greece, for example, has inscriptions in Greek and they do not have euro cents, but they do have glue. The Austrians have their own modification of the titles of these lower values than one euro. No country in Europe has 12 stars on its national side. Not a single country in Europe. We define this by law, or we want to define it by law. But no country in the European Union has this. And that's what we want to do. And who decides what will, when and what will be on a certain casual coin issued for a particular moment, either in the European Union or in the country of Slovenia? The law provides that this is decided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm sorry, but I'm seriously afraid with regard to the operation so far, or I'll say, I might return to yesterday's meeting of the National Assembly, given the clientism that this Government of the Republic of Slovenia is carrying out, that there will also be some kind of government Styria coin, I don't know. [[...]] It'll probably be the Director of the Drava Power Plants if he lets go of some kind of anger. But that's what I'm really afraid of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! After hearing the introduction of the Secretary of State, after hearing what the Committee's decision was and what the rejection of one of the Group's members was. Let me introductoryly say that the DeSUS Group intends to support this law. Simply because it is a law that allows for coordination with the European Directive, because it is a new regime for us, for some changes, definitions and so on. Because it is that the marriage was mostly supported and because we find it difficult to agree that the Ministry of Finance is simply an alpha beta nest that knows nothing about finances. It is true, however, that we too judge that it is a pity that all the amendments proposed have been rejected. Today is still an opportunity for something to change in this area. Something purely without a rational core these amendments are not. The law regulates casual coins, including those we call memorial and collectors. It regulates the mode of issue, regulates the powers of issue, design, value setting and so on. And we feel that in this work this bill is well prepared enough to support it. What has been the subject of controversy so far and which has also been shown to be not fully accepted today is, in particular, the attitude towards certain provisions which are based on recommendations, not on requirements, but rather on the recommendations of the European Commission. Some say no, but not all of them. The amendments proposed by the Slovenian National Party were justified. In particular, this is our own view, with a different relationship or a different understanding of the relationship between Slovenia and the EU, with a different degree of emotionality, with a different degree of willingness to take into account that we are only in one community in the EU. Also with differences in how much more or less we might take national sovereignty into account. We in the parliamentary group would be prepared to support some kind of amendment. For example, the amendment on the issue of these coins not only once a year, for example, to be issued on multiple occasions and at least once a year. And if any of the amendments were adopted, we might also provide Parliament with a higher level of support for this bill. We will still support the marriage. We'll probably support some kind of amendment. However, the level of consensus, as we believe, could be higher and, needlessly, anything proposed in the form of amendments has been rejected.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the secretary, greetings to colleagues and colleagues! We have already had a law on casual coins in Slovenia since 1993. Today we have before us the Law on the Opportunities of Coins, which is adapted both by the new legislation on Banka Slovenije and in line with the European directives. In Article 3, under the new law, optional coins shall be divided into commemorative and collector coins. Commemorative coins are the same as exchange coins for 2 euros and have a joint site in the form of two euro and a national site shaped in the style of the event for which they are issued. And Rob must have 12 stars and an anniversary. Remembrance coins have a nominal value of €2 and can be issued once a year. The motive of the national parties must be aligned with the countries of the European Union. They can be sold at a higher price than the nominal and are a legitimate means of payment in the Member States of the European Union. Collector coins will be made of gold, silver or other precious metals. In the case of such coins, the nominal value is not equal to the nominal value and may be issued up to a maximum of one year. The appearance of collector coins shall be determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia after consulting the members of the European Union. The front page shall not be the same as that of the coins in circulation and the coins must be distinguished by two of the three criteria: colour, diameter and weight. These coins are usually more expensive than the nominal value and are a legal means of payment only in the Republic of Slovenia. The scope of the issue shall be determined by the Government on a proposal and after consultation with the Bank of Slovenia. All the professional and technical tasks related to the coins attached shall be carried out by Banka Slovenije from the design solutions to the agreement on the manufacturer until the date of delivery into circulation and so on. The means of issue shall be allocated to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, where the revenues from sales are also derived. The first copies of the collection coins are planned in 2008. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the Law on Sample Coins is well prepared and will also be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Welcome to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Members and Members of Parliament! By entering the European Union and taking over the euro as a means of payment in the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenia has also assumed rights as duties towards the European Union and, with 1.1.2007, additional obligations and obligations towards countries using the common European currency. It has therefore committed itself to taking into account the guidelines or recommendations of the European Commission of 29 September 2003 setting out a common policy in the field of coins. The Law on spot coins regulates the issue of optional coins in accordance with the European legal order and in accordance with the Commission's recommendation on general guidelines for national euro coins in circulation. The proposed Law on Opportunities for Coins, which are divided into Memorial and Collectors, does not modify the basic arrangements for the issue of optional coins as laid down in the applicable law. The opportunities for coins will be issued as before at events of wider international and national importance. Remembrance coins will be a legal means of payment in all countries that have the euro as an official means of payment. Unlike memories, collector coins will be made from various metals, gold or silver or other metals to be determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and can only be a legitimate means of payment in Slovenia. In other euro area countries and also in non-euro countries, collector coins will have only numismatic value. For the Republic of Slovenia, the Bank of Slovenia will sell the coins directly or through other authorised organisations. This is mainly due to increased access to these coins in the first sale. We will support the law on casual coins in the New Slovenia Group because we believe that by taking over the euro we are also obliged to assume the obligations arising from this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u14	Dear President, representatives of the government, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The current Law on Sample Coins was passed in 1993, after the introduction of the new currency tolar after Slovenia's independence. By taking over the euro and the fact that Slovenia is a member of the European Union, it is necessary to adopt a new law on coin opportunities, which will be in line with European legislation and, of course, with the new Slovenian and European currency. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the proposed law. As a novelty, the law mainly distinguishes between commemorative coins and collector coins and sets out the procedure for issuing optional coins. The opportunity coins are, in our view, one of the important ways to promote Slovenia. Especially among numizmatics, and among others, we encounter these coins in one way or another. It is therefore important for us to ensure, when deciding on the motives for the occasional coins, the choice of those motives that express an important event for Slovenia or Slovenia and at the same time ensure the visibility of Slovenia. The opportunity coins should therefore follow the promotion of our country and nation. The proposed law follows the provisions of the European acquis. And in our opinion, it adequately regulates the area of optional coins. Since we are not experts in the numismatic field, it would be difficult to discuss widely the details laid down in the law. However, the comparability and governmental justification of the solutions proposed are enough for us to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u15	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 28 May 2007. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the four amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 4 and the four amendments of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Versnik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party of those amendments, we do not support the following reasons: the tendency of these amendments is that Slovenia does not talk to the European Union about the issue of these coins, although we are members of the European Union and the recommendations of the European Bank are to inform the Central Bank and partners of each issue of these coins. The tendency of one of the amendments is also to execute emissions in more than one event per year. We think that this institution, in fact, would be misused and would no longer represent what is meant to be. Events, if they're too common, then they lose their purpose. In fact, all the amendments that are contained in those trends. And I do not intend to support them in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u17	Thank you. And Mr. Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Just for an explanation. This is the recommendation and opinion of the European Central Bank. It's not some binding condition. So the first amendment to Article 4 can be completely acceptable. Nobody's tying us up to do anything. They're just recommending something. And since some or most countries of the European Union do not respect this, I do not know why Slovenia would be the one who would respond to an opinion by preparing a law and defining certain things in it? I think that this was about the fact that the Ministry of Finance has submitted a request, in particular to the Austrians, about what the motivations should be on an individual euro coin or on an individual informal coin. We know that we have had problems since we introduced the duke's throne, regardless of the fact that it is the oldest institution of parliamentaryism in Europe. So I think that in this case it is by no means an obligation that Slovenia should regulate legally, but it is an opinion. And if we are already doing, for the most part, what other members or older members of the European Union are doing, we could do the same in this case and support the first amendment to the 4th Article of the Slovenian National Party and not directly state that we have to have 12 stars. No one is forcing us to do this, even though the explanation says otherwise, that we have heard otherwise from the explanation. But it seems to me that a sovereign state, the Republic of Slovenia, can be allowed here, and at least in this case remains independent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, we would particularly like to hear the government's opinion on the proposed amendments. Granted, some of this was also found on the parent’s working body. What I have as a personal problem is a restriction in the law that commemorative coins can only be issued at one event a year. It is a matter of commemorative coins to mark either national or international events. And of course it is, it can happen that these events are more than one a year. Especially if we also issue commemorative coins in Slovenia when it comes to events at European Union level. For example, the final signature of the Constitutional Treaty or whatever it is called. So I personally support this amendment to Article 3. As far as this amendment is concerned, it's not supposed to include these 12 stars, which is why I have a problem. Simply because this is set out in a clear regulation adopted by Slovenia during negotiations with the European Union. Last but not least, the flag of the European Union, which by joining the European Union has become one of the symbols and symbolizes these 12 stars. That is why, of course, I will not support this amendment alone further. Would you suggest, however, that the President give us, or if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia gives us, why is this not clear from the explanation, even from the debate at least it was not clear to me why this strict restriction on only one event, why the opposition if the opposition of the amendments to the SNS colleagues? So I myself would support that amendment so that the commemorative coins can be issued at several events per year. However, for at least one event, because these events are certain, if we take international events into account, we can take more than one a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u21	Thank you. I apologize to Members and Members for giving my word to Mr Ciccle, because the Group of the Social Democrats has not announced any time to discuss. I'm sorry. Does anyone want to discuss it yet? Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. I also find the third amendment to Article 4 very meaningful. At least in case we want to somehow ensure what I said before, at least some degree of national sovereignty. We are confident, alone and in the Slovenian National Party, that, I will say no, the Government and the Republic of Slovenia have nothing to discuss with the other members of the European Union what will be the motive on some casual coin. In my opening remarks, I said that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is competent to decide when a commemorative coin or opportunity will be issued, would find that someone is so good in this country that his motive should be given to some casual coin. There will be more economic, I will say, success in this country and someone will say in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: "Our Maribor guru Mr Damjan Kolletnik is suitable for such a coin." But if we consult with the members of the European Union, someone will say, "Who is Damjan Kolletnik to allow himself or you will allow yourself to be on such a casual coin?" At least this part of the sovereignty and the decision on who will be the motive on some casual coin, I think, must remain under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Bank of Slovenia and Slovenia as such. Not that we're gonna ask, but I don't know, Greece about whether or not we can put on our casual lipican coin. But lipid, you know. Who's going to know there's a lipid on some random coin if it doesn't say below? They'll just think, one of the horses in this country, but there's no problem. But at least this part of the sovereignty must be preserved. Last but not least, Slovenia, as a country, can issue optional coins in the event that took place in Slovenia, even in the European Union. But we will issue optional coins when we or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia assess that this optional coin is in place. We will issue it and, of course, to collectors and everyone else, allow this coin to be placed in circulation and sold at nominal or market value. As far as it is concerned that only the European Commission is concerned, I feel that there is nothing at stake, since we can send a message either by e-mail or by return, to the extent that anyone has such a wish. But we're losing some of our sovereignty again. Inform about this and ask what Slovenia will allow itself to do or to give to some of the other members of the European Union an opportunity coin. For example, I don't know, even Romania after all, given the fact that it happened, that one country had already written "Oh Triglav My Home" on its memorial coin. For all those of you who don't know, I think it's a little awkward, even if we ask the Austrians whether we can do it or whether we ask the Italians whether we can do it. If we ask them, it is said that there is no longer a mark in Slovenia that would not be theirs. And I doubt that they will agree with any statement that Slovenia will make. If we ask for the Prince's Stone, the Austrians will say why, because it's not yours. If we ask about the Lipizzans, even the English will say it's not ours. If we ask the Italians about Pirano or the Isolate Church, they'll also say when it was yours except today. I think that's gonna be one big problem. And at least this part of the sovereignty could be preserved and we could decide for ourselves. Finally, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is legitimately elected a body which, in my opinion, should defend Slovenian interests and therefore we can trust it with what will be on the Slovenian informal coin, so it seems to me that the third amendment to Article 4 proposed by the Slovenian National Party is absolutely necessary to support it and thus show that we are not afraid of the fact that we are Slovenians and that we are not afraid of the fact that some people in history are still Slovenian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u24	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear fellows! I would briefly touch the second and third amendments. By limiting itself to one event a year, of course, it can be possible in some very balanced historical development. But unfortunately, our lives don't move, but sometimes they run, sometimes they stand. If we take a quick look at the possible anniversary of various events, we will see that most of them concentrate on the year one. But there's almost no two. So in a few years, we'll have to work hard and figure out what to make up or find. For a few years, however, the choice will be such that the criteria will have to be so sharp that, in the cumulative sense, these events will not in some way be equally valued. That's dangerous. Of course, there is another danger. I don't know how much. I would leave this matter completely open. So, maybe a really controversial limit, one coin a year. But I wouldn't put a cap on it. I think it's very rational and, of course, in this respect, I think this amendment is good. However, criteria need to be defined in one way or another. The third amendment seems appropriate to me, too. After all, it is our national, in terms of state and nation, history. Even at all the other events. We really don't have to look here - I don't know - for any other people's agreement. And that's true of others. We don't ask others to give us their suggestions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u25	Thank you. Anyone else in this article? Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u26	Thanks again for saying that. Just a few words, to the fourth amendment to Article 4. We believe that Banka Slovenije is the only one to determine the basic price for special executions. For all those who ever had a coin that was a memorial, if you remember 100 tolars of Slovenian, maybe someone else kept it at home, were issued by the Tolar coins for the time when Slovenia joined the European or World Cup in football. And that hundred tolar coin back then had a value of 100 tolars. He wasn't worth it anymore. And it seems completely pointless to me that for him, because he was betrayed in some way, I will say, a glorious event for this country, but he had a nominal value of 100 tolars to determine that we give someone the authority that this price could be 200 tolars, nominal. But when I go to the store, given that the commemorative coins are in regular circulation, I'll only get 100 tolars. This is one such nonsense or nebulosis that is written in the law itself. So, if some commemorative coin is issued for a particular purpose and we have it in circulation, now I'm going to think, 100,000 coins under 100 tolars, it seems to me that it's meaningless to sell them for 150, because we get 100 for them. Not all people have enough of these commemorative coins to keep them at home, but some go to the store with them. However, I agree with the part where the basic price should be determined by Banka Slovenije when it comes to specific performances of individual coins. That's when I did. However, when it comes to such casual options, I find this very unrealistic, incomplete and disturbing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u27	Thank you. Anyone else? Would you like some? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members. Allow me to answer some of the questions or proposals that have also been mentioned in this debate. I must say, of course, here at the outset, that as to what symbols coins must have, or that the 12 star symbol is actually the recommendation of the European Central Bank, that until now coins issued in other countries had this symbol and that, of course, a certain disregard for the recommendation of the European Central Bank could also lead to an action against Slovenia. With regard to the provision on the number of individual coins issued, the European Central Bank's recommendation, as mentioned above, as well as the fact that the Ministry of Finance has requested the Bank of Slovenia to obtain information on the stocks in the last 15 years of the various coins issued in Slovenia, has found that the costs are considerable. The costs were mainly up to 2006 and these stock costs amounted to up to EUR 350 000 or up to EUR 550 000 in individual periods. Which, of course, shows that simple coins did not go on the market at certain events - so to speak - and, of course, this resulted in certain costs. However, Ecofin may exceptionally allow or in some way prescribe that a special coin should be issued at one particular European event, for example at the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, when a special coin was issued for this purpose. In addition, of course, I would like to consult with other countries. The fact is that Slovenia has taken over the new currency - the euro. In view of the symbols, this counsel is in some way necessary and, of course, also necessary. In particular, because one country with a symbol would not in any way restrict or violate any cultural or other event in another country. This is a matter of consultation and it is not a matter for the State to have to defend such a position. However, we think that we have a common currency with other 12 countries, that even with regard to these events, the real issue of coins, we are consulting with other countries and, of course, at least announce such an event. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u30	Your Honors are here! Mr. Secretary of State, let me tell you which country is matching 12 stars, is Slovenia really going to be the first and the first? Given that this is a recommendation from the European Central Bank, I am not afraid of any action against the country of Slovenia when it issues commemorative coins. It's a recommendation. You can recommend to me today that I support this law. I won't. You recommended me, but you can't sue me for that. I know that, and you know it. That is why I find the threat of an action by the Republic of Slovenia entirely unfounded. But you're defending this marriage. Let us return to the European Union and the Member States of the European Union. Tell me, for example, what Bulgaria requires on its euro coins - Cyrillic. And they will, because they are determined to do so. No one's gonna make them Latin, not 12 stars. They'll have Cyrillic. Why should Slovenia be the one who introduces to the refugees and once again submits to some of the European Union's recommendations? We have accepted them at the time of adapting to the European Union a whole bunch that have brought nothing good to this country and to the people who live here. And today we would like to continue this trend again. Bulgarians demand Cyrillic. And in doing so, ladies and gentlemen, they will succeed. Why don't we Slovenians once step on their feet and say, thank you very much for your recommendation, we appreciate it very much, but unfortunately we won't follow it? And we start with some Slovenian motives, with some of our wishes we have. Should we not express our desire and simply kneel before what is recommended by who in the European Union? You know, probably better than I do, but I believe that less good than the leader of Mr Jelinčič's parliamentary group, how barant it will be, what will be the sign on which of Slovenian coins. You probably know what it should be like to be in a two-euro country, and then it went somewhere else because the aspirations of the older countries in the European Union were different. You know what a sower means, who painted it before Grohar, painted it and illustrated it. But we are now full members of the European Union, the country that has taken over the euro. And at least in this case, let us exercise some of our sovereignty or some of our own recognizability, if you will, even through the commemorative coins. However, it is not to follow some of the recommendations and fear and threaten us, Members of the Slovenian public, that someone will sue us if we do not follow any of the recommendations. Please! Who's gonna sue us? The European Central Bank, because we gave nine stars instead of 12 even though they recommend it? They recommend this to all Member States, not just us. They also recommended that Bulgarians have Latin, but they said, no, thank you, but we will have Cyrillic, whether you want it or not. And they're gonna make it because they have their own me and their own spine. And it is time for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to have its own laws, its own me and its backbone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u31	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. And I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Anybody want to talk? Let him raise his hand! [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, as part of the half-hour vote after the end of the 13th item of the agenda or at the latest at 6.30 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE OBLIGATIONS OF THE TRANSPORT OBLIGATIONS LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Shircel, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Compulsory Insurance in Transport was adopted by the Government on 29.3.2007 and forwarded to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure, as it considers it less difficult to bring the law into line with European Union law. Allow me to present the main solutions set out in the bill below. The basic purpose of the bill is to include the provisions of the fifth Automotive Insurance Directive in our legal order. Therefore, most of the provisions of the proposal are also related to this Directive. In addition, the Government proposes certain changes that regulate the ranges of fines for offences. However, due to the introduction of the euro, the amounts of fines must be converted from tolar to euro. The bill also contains certain editorial corrections. The main substantive solutions to the proposal are as follows. Insurance companies are given the opportunity to link their information systems to the register of registered vehicles maintained by the Ministry of the Interior, allowing them to obtain the necessary data to conclude insurance directly and, of course, also via the global Internet or the Internet. Indemnities are allowed to obtain data from an electronic police accident logbook to resolve their claims. However, insurance companies and associations may obtain data as users and, of course, use them, but cannot provide them to other persons. The bill sets out higher minimum insurance sums for car liability insurance. An appropriate transitional period shall also be laid down for their application. Only an increase in minimum insurance sums, according to the Government, does not mean an automatic increase in insurance premiums. The amount of insurance premiums depends also on the insurance payments paid. These are from actual damage. A way of further increasing the minimum insurance sums is defined, which is linked to the future publication of the European Commission in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposal for a law extends the compensation claims settlement system to all types of damage. The solidarity of the owner of the motor vehicle and the trailer shall be determined where the damage is caused by the trailer which is back-to-back or functionally connected to the motor vehicle. The draft law amends the definition of the territory from which the vehicle originates, so that the binding circumstances in such cases are the registration plate of the vehicle. The bill also sets out which Member State where the insurance covers a risk where the vehicle is imported from another Member State within 30 days of the acquisition of the vehicle. It is established that the border police can exercise control over the covered insurance only in the form of non-systematic verification, which is not directed exclusively at the verification of the insurance of car liability. The novelty of the law is also a provision that compensation may not be excluded in the event of damage caused by an unknown vehicle if compensation for serious injuries has been paid at the same time. Finally, it is stipulated that the damage caused by foreign vehicles subject to an exemption from the insurance obligation is the responsibility of the Slovenian Insurance Association. The proposal for a directive introduces substantially higher minimum insurance sums. The assessment of the Slovenian Insurance Association is also that, according to the proposed two-phase procedure, the impact on insurance premiums will be divided into several years in the transitional period and therefore smaller. The professional association has also ensured that insurance companies will not increase premiums due to the rounding up of insurance sums due to the conversion of tolars to the euro. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The government is proposing to the National Assembly to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u33	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. Please ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. President, Your Honor. At its 26th meeting, on 16.5., the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Compulsory Insurance in Transport. At its meeting on 13.4.2007, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided on a proposal for the consideration of the draft law following a reduced procedure and adopted it. We have received opinions from the Legal and Legislative Services, where the comments to Articles 2, 4, 8, 9, 13, 16 and 37, with the exception of the comments to Articles 4, 16 and 37, have been taken into account in the amendments adopted by the Committee at its meeting. The purpose of this Act was to implement Directive 2005/14 of the European Parliament and of the Council, following an explanation by the applicant. The aim of the Directive is to improve and modernise the Directive in force so far in the field of car liability insurance. In particular, the reasons for the adoption of the Directive have been an increase in cross-border traffic and an increasing number of questions and complaints from individuals regarding the impact of the existing Automotive Insurance Directives in practice. The Directive thus improved the existing protection of injured persons in traffic accidents, complemented or clarified the gaps in the provisions of the Directives so far and provided for the solution of the most common problems encountered in practice with a view to ensuring a single insurance market in the area of compulsory car liability insurance. The aim of the law is to comply with the provisions of this Directive. Therefore, most of the provisions relating to this Directive are related. In addition, certain amendments are proposed that better regulate the ranges of fines for offences. In view of the introduction of the euro, it is necessary to convert the amounts of fines and tolars into euro. The bill also contains certain editorial corrections. The fundamental principle of the bill is that the transposition of the solutions set out in the directive achieves a uniformisation of the regime of compulsory car liability insurance at EU level. The Committee adopted, as I mentioned earlier, the amendments to the article and the proposal for amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and to the Democratic Party of Pensioners, which was adopted under Article 10. On the basis of Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure, a complementary proposal has been prepared, which is here before us to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u35	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For the second time today, we are talking about a bill drawn up by the Ministry of Finance. The second time we heard, the proposal was supported by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. For the second time, we can say that the DeSUS Group also intends to support him, namely, the law. The law has a good decade of history. He's been changed a few times. Changed also by changing the area of transport, which has been changed. It's not always about the same changes. And of course, it is a law that tries to regulate an area that concerns us directly in everyday life. Unfortunately, very often, every moment, at all ends, wherever we find ourselves, in different areas of transport and brings with it positive and negative wages. What's particularly negative here is the possibility of accidents, the possibility of damage to the cargo, the means of transport, the luggage. It is therefore necessary to ensure that adequate compensation is provided. It is necessary to think as preventively as it is in terms of insurance and payment and settlement of damages. This law also, according to our judgment, does not affect the dramatic content of this area, but it is more of a routine change, because we follow the directives which imposed this burden two years ago to adapt. The Ministry has therefore prepared this proposal. The law seeks to improve and simplify insurance for compensation liability in traffic. This road is about car insurance. There is a desire to – and has already been said – unify responsibility. The ambition of this law is to set an appropriate range of fines, to also determine how to increase fines when the need arises, and to establish a system for settlement of claims. Perhaps it is interesting that this is a relatively long transitional period. First for 30 months and later even for 5 years. In short, we have one big timescale ahead of us when we can adapt to all that the directive is imposing. It is also important for us that the Ministry assesses that there are no financial implications for public finances and that there are no such consequences for individual insurers as well. Because he estimates that insurance premiums will not change because of this law. As we estimate that the bill is quite well prepared to be coordinated and complemented on the home labour body, support will also be given to the vote by the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Compulsory Insurance in Transport. It follows from the very explanation that the main reasons for amending the existing law are the implementation of the Directives of the European Union. It also converts fines from tolars to euros and regulates the range of these fines. As far as substantive changes are concerned, it seems necessary to mention the increase in minimum insurance sums. This, of course, will be good for those who will ever cause greater harm. At the same time, this also means greater security for those who will suffer such harm. Of course, this gives rise to fear of an increase in premiums. We are aware or we claim that an increase in the minimum amount cannot, should not mean an automatic increase in the premium because compensation payments are also dependent on the number of damage cases and the amount of compensation paid. From this heading, of course, we expect that, due to the increase in minimum insurance sums, they will not increase or at least increase insurance costs at this point. It also seems important to us that the law clearly stipulates that the insurance undertaking must, within three months if liability is not contested, make a reasonable offer of compensation, or if liability is contested, within the same time limit. It is said that within three months at the latest the reasoned answer is also given. Otherwise, we support the other changes in the Slovenian Democratic Party and we will also support the whole bill. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr Milan M. Cwickl will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u40	Good day to you all! Thank you for your word. Messengers and Members! It appears that this is a minor amendment to the Act on Compulsory Insurance in Transport. However, if we take a closer look at the basic provision of this law, which is in Article 9, it is a very important change. We now have the lowest insurance amount for which the compulsory insurance, set at EUR 500 000 for all passenger vehicles up to EUR 2 million for vehicles carrying dangerous substances, must be entered into. In the event of damage caused by destruction or damage, however, this range range ranges from EUR 200 to EUR 400 000. This is now increasing significantly under the provisions of the European Union Directive. In the case of death, injury or health, the minimum insurance amount is EUR 5 million and the minimum liability for damage caused by destruction or damage is EUR 1 million. What else does the European Directive propose? The European Directive proposes a five-year transitional period where up to half this insurance sum can be made up to EUR 2 and a half million in the event of death within a 30-month transitional period. The government's proposal is different. The government has proposed that immediately, as from the date of the implementation of this Act, for passenger vehicles, it is said, for a million and as many vehicles as in Slovenia are the most liable for car insurance, this insurance sum is immediately increased from EUR 500 000 to EUR 122 million. [[500 million tolars old.]] to EUR 2.5 million, five times the increase in the insurance amount. Let us now leave aside that there is no more distinction between cars, buses, vehicles carrying dangerous substances, which of course is not correct. Because at least, if not the other, mathematical reservations are different. However, the government has decided to immediately increase the minimum insurance amount by five times. What's our problem? We have a problem with the government saying in the explanation of the law that there will be no effect. It says on page 7: "the bill will have no other consequences". That's just not true. The bill will have important consequences. The important consequences will be to raise insurance sums, since even if it is true that insurance companies have some reserves, it is impossible to cover insurance companies by five times the sum of five times the immediate five times the increase in insurance liabilities to EUR 2.5 million in the same probability of insured events. Therefore, of course, we predict that there will be an increase. This was also pointed out by the Legal and Legal Service. The legislative and legal service has said that it is not clear why an immediate increase in insured sums is envisaged to one half if the directive allows an increase to that amount in the 30-month transitional period, within two and a half years or within five years to the full sum. And of course the Legal and Legislative Service also felt that it would be correct to explain, of course, why the distinction according to the type of vehicle. Vehicles carrying dangerous substances are, of course, likely to cause much greater damage, both in the event of damage resulting in death, physical injury or destruction and damage to things. Of course, the government has not decided to make that distinction. That is why Social Democracy will not support this law. Simply because we are assessing that it could be better than now proposed, and otherwise, as the ruling coalition on the committee responsible for finance and monetary policy has voted. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] The fact is that this law will have significant consequences and these important consequences will reflect the increase in car insurance premiums by a million and more drivers or vehicles in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u41	Thank you. And Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u42	Say good-bye again! Dear Prime Minister, representatives of the Ministry! Members and Members of Parliament and also visitors on the balcony! Although the basic purpose of the proposal of the Law on Compulsory Insurance in Transport is to bring it into line with the European legal order in the New Slovenia Group, we also support other innovations. One of the most important things is that the victims will be able to obtain data from the police electronic reports collection on traffic accidents. Another important novelty is the possibility of making insurance in all decision-making places. So, also online. In the New Slovenia Group, we are working for such a public administration that will provide services to citizens in one place. We also want to ensure that data are easily accessible to all interested parties, which will certainly be achieved by introducing electronic commerce into the administration. Electronic commerce is becoming an integral part of our lives, and if the possibility of easier and faster business is enabled for policy-makers to change the law, we strongly support it. Otherwise, the proposal for a law in the framework of the introduction of directives provides for the establishment of higher minimum insurance sums for car liability insurance by 2010 and introduces an appropriate transitional period for the adjustment of insurance undertakings. An important change in the law is also the regulation of a more appropriate range of fines for offences and the conversion of fines from tolars to euros. The media have made the bill known to the public. This is probably due to assumptions that higher minimum insurance sums could lead to an increase in compulsory insurance prices. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the likelihood of an increase in premiums depends on the market situation. Insurance companies will have to invest in online insurance conclusion. At the same time, according to insurance representatives, the market is so dynamic and competitive that there will be no rises for this reason. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the bill, in particular because of the benefits it brings to insurance companies in terms of easier business or exercise of their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u44	Your Honor! In particular, the Law on Compulsory Insurance in Transport refers to compliance with Directive No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 2005/14, the main aim of which is to improve other existing Directives in the field of car liability insurance. The novelty also brings some necessary editorial corrections and euro adjusted fines. The system of compulsory transport insurance is important and ensures a certain level of safety for all road users in the event of an adverse event. This European Directive has been adopted in order to ensure better quality protection for road users. By increasing the movement of persons and thus of vehicles within the European Union, it is necessary to ensure a uniformity of the area of compulsory insurance of car liability. Citizens of the Member States of the European Union must be provided with at least minimum acceptable insurance coverage in all EU Member States. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have no comments on the proposed law and will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear government representatives, distinguished visitors, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Compulsory Insurance in Transport is simply a follow-up to the European Directive or, rather, to directives, a few of them. The Directive of 2005/14, then of 1984 marked E-5/EEC, and two other Directives are from 2004 and 2005. What good does this law bring, government officials have already said. Mostly "good," in phrasing, in the translated sense of the word. However, the purchasing power of Slovenia is also known and the auctioning of insurance premiums just on the tip, over the thumb. This is also pointed out by the government’s office or the Law Office that it is not good. And if we compare that we have a million 120 thousand drivers, including many young people, it is an additional burden for those who want to be independent, mobile and additional obstacles in this context, that they will not actually be able to afford a car or registration for a vehicle. With regard to the increase in minimum insurance premiums, the law provides for a period of time which is divided into five years. The government didn't take it into account. This deadline is short. Here's the basic thought. Why is it that every time Europe prescribes a law or directive, we rush into our legislation? It is also possible to take into account the minimum right of the insurer to the insurance undertaking, as the insurance undertaking is again in a priority function and has priority over the user of the insurance. We are giving her the opportunity to decide on the final insurance decision for 30 days. So, the consumer, whoever has already suffered damage to the vehicle, will have to wait 30 days for the final decision to be able to recover the damage. Of course he'll get it. Because we know that insurance companies like to collect this money that's in the insurance premium. But when it comes to paying compensation, there are as many as 1,000 excuses, not one. So why are we so blindly following the European Directive, and why are we so reluctant to protect our interests and, of course, compare them with actual purchasing power? For we know that Europe is large and that Germany or French or Englishman is impossible to compare with the Slovenian who has such a salary as it has. We do not take this into account here. This is a basic guide for the Slovenian National Party not to support this law. Simply because we're putting ourselves in a subordinate position. As I have already said, we focus on young people, the youngest. Young drivers are more every day and here this "handicap" will be the biggest. I would also like to reflect on this proposal, or thought, which I have already mentioned. The legislative and legal service's idea to take this deadline into account and extend it to 5 years, because several times the insurance premium will be auctioned on the claim that nothing will change, of course nothing will change only for a budget that will be larger or possibly for an insurance company that will be closer to the government's rounds where it will have a larger annual purchase. For consumers, it is significantly worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u47	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the draft law in the context of a reduced procedure. The decision on the bill will be made today in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 13th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Period of the day - Another defends the bill on consumer protection against disrespectful business practices. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Ma'am mag. Andrijana Starina Kosem, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! The draft law before us brings to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia Directive 2005/29 of the European Community on unfair business practices of businesses towards consumers in the internal market. The main purpose of this proposal is to harmonise the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia with this directive, helping to strengthen consumer protection and, on the other hand, to strengthen the internal market. The Directive obliges Member States to adopt and publish rules to comply with this Directive by 12.6. whereas the legal measures shall apply from 1.12. Consumer protection is governed by a comprehensive Consumer Protection Act and special rules. This proposed law will complement and align the content with the rules at European Community level. The content of this proposal provides for a uniform general prohibition of all unfair practices that distort the economic behaviour of consumers, which are classified into two groups; and misleading and aggressive business practices. The latter in Slovenia have not been legally regulated so far. The law deals with prohibited acts which, following the example of the Directive referred to in Article 13 of the Competition Protection Act, are defined by a general clause and by inexhaustible listing of cases to help identify business practices that are considered unfair. Such an arrangement was opposed by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. However, the Market Inspectorate stressed that in order to make the law effective, inexhaustible listing is essential. The final solution in the law is a general clause and an open list of cases. In order to implement the law consistently, it is necessary to develop a criterion or test of the average consumer, the group to which the product or service is intended. In cases where business practices are targeted at a particular group of consumers, such as children, it is also necessary to adapt the average consumer tests. The judgment will depend on each individual case, so to speak, judicial practice. The market operators will be subject to administrative supervision by the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia and other inspection bodies in accordance with the powers they have. Only these will be able to prohibit illegal practices by means of their decisions and to impose fines on potential violators. The law also provides consumers with judicial protection. However, due to the uniformity of consumer protection rules, the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act apply mutatis mutandis to property legal protection. The latter also introduces an institute of reverse burden of proof in the proposal of the Law on Unfair Commercial Practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u49	Thank you. The draft law was also regarded by the Committee on the Economy as a work mother. I ask Franca Ferri Horvat to present the report of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee of the National Economic Assembly considered the draft law at its 30th meeting, on 9.5.2007, as the working body of the State. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and part of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service were taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups. The amendments are included in the amended draft law. Part of the comments was taken into account at the Committee's meeting by adopting the amendment of the Committee, which are also included in the amended draft law. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic Council. And she's in favour of the bill. I would not say much in terms of content, since the content was thoroughly presented by the Secretary of State. I'd only be doing two things. In the debate, there was a large degree of unity between members of the Committee that there was an indisputable and additional need for stronger consumer protection measures and therefore a meaningful transposition of the Directive of the European Union. In particular, to strongly prevent unfair business practices, in particular in the area of misleading consumers and limiting aggressive business practices. Differences or not in the debate itself, but the problem that has been raised in the debate, which has already been pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service, is that the already mentioned umbrella law on consumer protection and this law. By carefully comparing them, we can see that some articles overlap. Some, however, seem to be in conflict. The debate has shown that the way out of this is also on the government's assurance that the government will draw up a new proposal for the Consumer Protection Act, and this law will then allow us to comply with this law before us. Doubles will be eliminated and possible collisions can be eliminated. This is also possible because this law will be enforced or will not apply until 1.12., the end of this year. I propose that we adopt a proposal for a law, because the law certainly represents an important step forward in consumer protection, which, given the increasing liberalisation of European and global trade, is essential both for consumers and for honest providers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u51	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Kristijan Janc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Dear President, Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and visitors at the gallery! Consumer protection is an area that has been growing more and more rapidly lately. People are increasingly aware of consumer rights and are also increasingly turning to the competent institutions, in particular the Consumer Protection Office. In particular, the promotion of consumer protection is due to the fact that suppliers, i.e. businesses, are increasingly aggressive in their advertising and sales of products or services and the supply of various goods is increasing. Modern marketing approaches therefore also call for a more systematic and rigorous regulation of this area by adopting clear legislation and setting clear standards for consumer protection against abuse. The proposed law aligns Slovenian legislation with Directive 2005/29 of the European Parliament and of the Council on unfair business practices of enterprises in relation to consumers in the internal market. As stated in the justification or introduction to the law, harmonisation of this area is expected to bring some significant positive changes. In particular, cross-border marketing and advertising of businesses, as well as business operations across the borders of the home country, are expected to increase significantly. On the other hand, consumers should also start increasing their cross-border purchases in order to improve consumer rights security. The proposed law, like the directive mentioned above, clearly and definitively regulates consumer protection against practices that could significantly distort competition and consequently harm consumers. It is important to assess the behaviour through the standards of the average consumer. It is generally known how the company reacts differently. For example, in the process of advertising the product, when advertising, say, Janez Novak, or how he reacts if the same Janez Novak asks the company to send an answer to Novak & Partners' law firm. We always expect a number of positive effects from laws that contribute to harmonisation. It is clear, however, that for an individual undertaking which is limited to the local market, any such change can mean an even more difficult struggle for survival. Our task is, of course, clear, consumer protection. However, our companies need to take advantage of the benefits of harmonisation in terms of easier and safer entry into the wider European market. The Slovenian People's Party will also support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Aloys Posedel. [[He's not here.]] Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members. Excuse me. Mr Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u54	Your Honors are here! According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, the law currently under consideration, which is before us today, is only one positive feature and this is only the title of the law. The fact is that the proposaler, namely, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, proposed a law which already in the introduction states that this law is exclusive to the European Commission or is based on a directive and on a Council on unfair business practices in companies in relation to consumers. You will find that the institutions within the European Union have examined and examined certain national legislation. As regards the position and, of course, the votes of the members of the Slovenian National Party, I can say with certainty that we would support the law, if the law also follows the practice and this true practice within our country. Whoever says that consumers within the Republic of Slovenia are protected will, of course, lie. And why did he lie? Because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia seeks to create a cheap consumer society. If we look at the measures taken so far by this Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we see that the Government is planning the expenditure of the individual population in a very targeted manner. Which, of course, means, or if we take from the practice so far, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taxed savings. Therefore, a certain part of the investments that consumers have decided to save have been taxed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Where did the consumer go? She did not lead the consumer into high-quality investments, such as investment in securities. Of course not. Because investment or capital investment income is heavily taxed. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has therefore deliberately created a society of bitter consumption, which is, of course, seen before every holiday. But what is the purpose of this consumption? This consumption aims to satisfy individual interests in the short term. There is no way in which this consumption is intended to be done what the Government should be responsible for ensuring that it creates. So it will generate consumption that will enrich the consumer. Why am I saying this content? I speak this content for one simple reason. Notwithstanding the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will continue to insist that this law is good for the consumer, it is still that general plan of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and this is the direction of the consumer to inquality consumption. So, according to our assessment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at least on the basis of integration into the macroeconomic level, promotes consumer fever in those cheap products, those that do not reflect in the quality, the long-term quality of the individual and thus in relation to society. According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's Group, it is therefore necessary to state from this title that the law should, in so far as it wishes to follow up on that point of long-term and real protection, implement or pursue two objectives in particular. The first is no longer the narrow and strict direction of the country's consumption of an individual through tax policy, which we must acknowledge to everyone in this Chamber that this Government is doing so now, directs consumption to that short-term inequity consumption, and on the other hand, our assessment is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should be based on the preparation of the law from practice. What is the practice within our country? At today’s session, or this time, it was mentioned several times: Drava power plants, Drava power plants, Drava power plants, State responsibility and, last but not least, governance. Why am I talking about Drava Power Plants? Because we take our services to consumers or their services to consumers. How should the consumer be entitled under this law to protection for unjustified incitement? I think Monday, when the Minister of the Economy responded, that the promotion, which was only 5% this year, was due to the past, not the price rise. This is misleading and such deception is also done by Drava Power Plants under the invitation to tender for the works they have. And to whom should consumers, in this case electricity be complained? None. Ladies and gentlemen, this law, I apologize, if I have not been clear enough, is intended solely for the protection of consumers buying cocoa or hamburgers, nothing else. The consumer is also based on this law. So it will also be in advance unprotected everywhere where real consumption is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The DeSUS Group will support the law. He will find sufficient valid reasons to do so and let us list just a few. First of all, it's a matter of urgency, at least, what the results will be, what success will be, is a matter of time. But the intention is to protect consumers, i.e. a weaker article on the market from those who have greater power and who are also better organised as far as the market is concerned. Secondly, we believe that the proposal for a law is well enough to be supported and, for the third time, it is an infringement or test of additional regulation of the market, which we think is necessary and appropriate. In many areas, the market situation is such that competition between individual market providers is marked, and all of this also leads to attempts to bring the company closer to the consumer by means of its service or product, also distorting, such as the language in the document, the market situation and trying to mislead those who are potential consumers or first the buyers. In this search for consumers, "there are so many unfair business practices" that we certainly feel in Slovenia. Only if we were to compare those articles in the bill that are more specific about what needs to be protected would we see that these are actually all the elements that many people really feel every day. So, business practices like this happen every day, which we call either distortion of competition. Be sure to tell them that it's some kind of forced purchase, or that it's a fraud, a distortion of information, a limitation of information. Because only partial information can very often be wrong and can lead the customer or consumer into wrong decisions that he might not have taken in this kind of business practice. The aim is therefore to remedy legal uncertainty, prevent distortions of competition, address distortions in the internal market and, as a result, probably also means improving the functioning of the internal market, greater movement of goods, more business activities. And in the end, that also means a positive effect for businesses, that is the whole point of this law - protecting consumers from businesses. But if the result is such as the hope of reaching a bill, it is not only about protecting the consumer, it is also about promoting business activities, greater business activity and better protection on the market and, of course, it is in the interests of businesses. The parliamentary group will support this law, and it has asked itself, quite frankly, whether it is necessary to regulate this consumer protection in the way that we now have before us. In fact, we pass another law and therefore separate the protection of contractual relations from the protection of non-contractual relations. The proponents assure us that this is right, that it is more transparent, that things will be clearer and we hope that they are right, and we will also support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u57	Thank you. Ms Maria Possonec will present the position of the Group of the People's Communities. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u58	A nice greeting to the audience! Let me begin by saying that I will support this proposal. In this proposal, the law primarily deals with the transposition of Directive 2005/29 on unfair business practices towards consumers in the internal market into the Slovenian legal order. In the entire part of the European Community legislation on consumer protection, this Directive is the first directive to be brought into the Slovenian legal order in accordance with the principle of maximum harmonisation. The key purpose of the legislative proposal is to strengthen consumer protection against unfair business practices and thus strengthen the internal market. The bill sets out a uniform general ban on all unfair business practices that distort the economic behaviour of consumers, with unfair business practices classified as two key common practices, both misleading and aggressive business practices. With these established legal standards, we will be able to avoid the significant anomalies that occur on the market in Slovenia. And let's hope there's more order in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr Bojan Starman will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! Directive 2005/29 of the European Council of 11.5. on unfair business practices of businesses in relation to consumers in the internal market has been proposed by the European Commission following a long-term examination of national legislation in this area in the Member States and following an analysis and assessment of the impact of the diversity of those arrangements on the functioning of the internal market of the European Union. The laws of the Member States relating to unfair business practices show significant differences that may lead to significant distortions of competition and obstacles to the smooth functioning of the internal market. These inconsistencies also create uncertainty as to which national rules apply to unfair business practices that harm the economic interests of consumers and which create a number of obstacles and affect businesses and consumers. As a result of these obstacles, companies have higher costs in implementing the freedoms of the internal market, especially if they want to engage in cross-border marketing and sales promotion. Obstacles also create uncertainty for consumers about their rights and reduce their confidence in the internal market. In the context of the European Union, a significant number of decisions of the Court of Justice in the field of consumer protection against unfair business practices can be identified before the adoption of the Directive. This is the first time that the whole area of consumer protection is regulated against unfair business practices by secondary legislation. Also, for the first time there are so-called aggressive business practices, which are increasingly used, and therefore need to be regulated legally. Due to the nature and scope of the scope of the regulation of the complexity of economic foundations, in particular the evidence of similar and related actions, the directive is also urgently bringing some entirely new approaches to regulation. Therefore, with the proposal before us, we are trying to get this directive on unfair business practices as far as possible in relation to consumers in the internal market into our legal order. The draft law deals with business practices that are directly linked to the impact on consumer decisions on trade in products. The proposal follows the key principles aimed at protecting consumers as weaker customers in relation to businesses. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will also support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u61	Thank you. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Group of Social Democrats supports the adoption of the Consumer Protection Act against Unfair Business Practices. In addition, we stress that it is particularly important that the transposition of Directive 2005/29 of the European Community on unfair business practices is introduced, and this will gradually be the case in the field of consumer protection in all Member States of the European Union. This will avoid other Member States' temptations. In doing so, Slovenia is no exception to lowering the standards that we or other Member States have already reached because of the principle of minimum harmonisation. Like this, for example, it happened to us when we adopted the new Asylum Law. In any case, our Group will also closely monitor further developments in the preparation of the amendment to the Consumer Protection Act, for which the representative of the Government at the Committee on the Economy has assured us that he will be transferred to the National Assembly early enough to enter into force at the same time as the application of the law under consideration today. It is not irrelevant that consumers, and ultimately potential infringements of consumer protection rules, have clear and unequivocal legislation that does not allow for the arbitrary assessment and decision-making of the competent supervisory authorities, nor does it cover individual legal provisions and competences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr Martin Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, everyone! Well, first of all, I would like to mention that the coordination of the proposed law has raised questions as to why this matter would not be included in the current Consumer Protection Act. However, the legislative and legal service has also expressed the idea of duplication or the risk of double regulation. In the New Slovenia Group, we are pleased that all the dilemmas before today's hearing in the National Assembly have made it clear that the special law that we are adopting today makes sense and is also necessary. All non-contractual relationships are covered by this law. In the Consumer Protection Act, however, all contractual relations would be concentrated and consumers would also be more transparent. Of course, certain provisions that may overlap will need to be laid down in the Consumer Protection Act. That's what the government promised us. Thus, in this new proposed law, we transpose the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2005, and the Directive is passed on to the principle of maximum harmonisation, which in fact means that it is transposed in full. Nothing is taken away and nothing is added. In Novi Slovenija we advocate fair business practices that will apply not only to the domestic market but also to the EU markets. It is right to enforce such legislation in order not to distort competition but to contribute to the proper functioning of the internal market and to achieve a high level of consumer protection by uniting national rules. The law defines two types of unfair business practices. It's confusing and aggressive. Especially aggressive business practices have not yet been regulated in Slovenian legislation. In everyday life, however, they are becoming more and more common. And it is right that we regulate them properly. Uniform rules across the EU will align the differences that represent internal market constraints, thus increasing legal certainty for consumers and businesses. This will lead companies to increase the advertising and marketing of products in other EU countries and thus increase their profits. The development of fair business practices will contribute to greater market transparency, resulting in benefits for both consumers and businesses. In the New Slovenia Group, we support fair working methods, so we will also support the Consumer Protection Act against Unfair Business Practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u65	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we will vote on the draft law tomorrow, 31 May 2007, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, AT YOUR FIRST DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL IS THE LAW OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of 15 Members, with the first-signed Mr Ljub Germić, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Dorian Marušič, Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u66	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to introduce you in the introduction to the basic guidelines of the Medical Law, which is before you today. When preparing the law, our general purpose was to regulate this area, which is currently left on the market in Slovenia, despite the fact that it is an activity that has a major impact on human health. The fundamental principle of the law is thus to protect the user of medical services from any harm to health. This damage may be caused, for example, by the physician’s inability to identify serious diseases and, as a result, by delaying treatment with a doctor or by dissuading the user from treatment with a doctor or by possible direct damage to certain medicinal products or medicinal products. We must stress that the proposed law regulates a very diverse and wide-ranging area affecting all spheres of life. If we look from a health perspective from prevention, treatment to rehabilitation, and it is carried out by palettes of people with different types of education, called skills. In short, it is necessary to adopt such a law to protect citizens and citizens in particular. The basis for the drafting of the law was the establishment of a border between medicine and medicine, despite their apparent connection. For medicine is a scientific knowledge based on professionally tested methods, but medicine on the other hand does not have a satisfactory scientific basis for its effectiveness. From this point of view, we have not summarized the basis or term that is somehow established in the world; the complementary and alternative medicine used in other countries where the purpose of the law is deceiving. The setting up of the definition of medicine and the identification of medical systems and medical methods included in the proposal for a law were among the more difficult tasks. Let me say that there are definitions numbers set by international organisations. The World Health Organization and recognised institutions also testify to the different aspects of this activity. We have defined medicine as an activity carried out by healers to improve the health and quality of life of service users using medical systems and medical methods that must not harm health. The definition lays down a framework on which medicinal products can function. This is mainly in the preventive field of helping a person or improving his life - style and also using medical systems and medical methods to help or treat a disease. As far as medical systems are concerned, basic medical systems such as traditional Chinese medicine, traditional Indian medicine and homeopathy are listed. However, only according to the method of implementation have they received treatment. Specifically, it will be the competent Medical Chamber to record and recognise medical systems and medical methods in Slovenia, which will also have to publish them. It will also need to keep a close eye on these methods and systems. The user of medicinal services must be provided with adequate protection against any non-professional behaviour and the physician must be trained appropriately to provide professional treatment in the event of serious illness, both acute and chronic conditions, and will send the patient to the doctor and will not expose him to unnecessary risks. We have thus prescribed that a physician who has no medical or medical education should know certain medical contents, such as first aid, medical education, basic anatomy, physiology and contact culture, which he will be able to perform as exams in health schools. However, with appropriate education, he will be able to apply for a licence, i.e. a public document proving that the physician is professionally qualified for the independent implementation of medical systems and medical methods. The conditions for obtaining a licence are, in addition to education, the competence to implement a particular medical system or medical method, the high level of knowledge of the Slovenian language and impunity for worse crimes, which, in our opinion, are the minimum conditions that still provide safe treatment for users of medicinal services. In addition to knowledge, it is very important that the healer manages the documentation about his work. It will show which medical systems or medical methods he has used and how he has given instructions to the user of the service, and an integral part of the documentation will also be the statement by which the user of the medical service will accept medical treatment after the doctor has previously explained the type and method of use of the medicinal system or the medical method. The bill also sets out the rights of users of services: the right to quality and safe medical treatment and to privacy in medical treatment, the right to access medical documentation and the right to appeal. The bill also sets out the responsibility of the physician to the service user, will be responsible as an expert, and will ensure his liability for the damage caused by the provision of medical services. There is no direct link between a doctor and a healer in the bill. Indirectly, at the request of the user of the service, the personal physician may give an opinion on the medical system or medical method. The doctor will certainly not be expected to be an expert in the field of medicine, but according to his medical knowledge or even certain medical knowledge, he will be able to assess whether the medical method is appropriate or not to significantly aggravate the patient’s health. The emphasis is on the word "may give an opinion", which means that the doctor is not obliged to give such an opinion. However, it is also important that the doctor submits his opinion free of charge, preventing the charging of a new service, or that the user of the service is given the opportunity to discuss all treatment options with his personal physician without obligation. The bill also regulates the advertising of medicinal services, stressing that it must not be misleading and regulating the use of medicinal products and devices. In order to protect professional, professional and ethical interests, healers will be brought together in a chamber which will also be given public powers by the Ministry of Health to grant medical licenses, to exercise professional supervision of physicians and to grant authorisations to companies engaged in medicinal activities. The office will be supervised by the Ministry of Health. According to our assessment, the Chamber is required in terms of the regulation of the responsibility of physicians and supervision, and in particular the representation of common interests and the design of professions. The Ministry of Health, although retaining the right to control physicians and the Chamber of Health, wishes to see a medical-medical-medical gap put in place from this point of view. Dear Members and Members! We believe that the Law on Medicine is an excellent basis for dealing with the National Assembly, we hope, also, the reception and regulation of this area in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u67	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Maria Possonec will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian Group of National Communities. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u68	We have before us a proposal for a medical bill in the first reading. The proposal for a health care law will regulate the unregulated area so far, determine the types of medicine, the health care provider, the way in which medical activities are carried out, uniformise education and raise the basic knowledge of physicians. By licensing he will register doctors in one place - this is in the Medical Chamber. This will allow transparency and transparency to the public of operators, ensure quality and transparency of work and professional control, enable and define medicinal products and arrange for the supervision of physicians. The Ministry of Health will have control over the implementation of the provisions of the law. The bill should, however, be in line with the information officer, in particular in order to collect the data provided for in Article 12 of the Act. The Ministry of Health should also listen to the proposals made by contractors of complementary and alternative medicine, as this will also make the law applicable in practice. It would also be better to make clear which methods will be subject to the law and which do not. The term "other medicines" is also unclear. In short, a good law is one that is also understandable to the average user. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr Ivan Grill will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u70	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. So far in Slovenia, medicine has been left to the market, in most cases it is carried out in the form of economic activities and has not been regulated in the law so far. In such situations, physicians are engaged in non-professional activities without any supervision and are appropriately avoiding any responsibilities. In the search for medical services and for visits to individual physicians, users decide primarily on their own discretion and often in the absence of relevant information. This is why they decide primarily for those providers of medicinal services and methods that have the most developed advertising methods, and this does not mean that advertising methods, which can also be misleading, are most appropriate for their problems and diseases. For irresponsible work or even possible deterioration of the user's health, the physician may only be prosecuted by a civil suit, which is difficult to prove and a lengthy procedure. On the other hand, healers, except for a few exceptions, are left to themselves and their ingenuity. They do their work primarily as individuals, more or less quality, but without professional supervision, assistance and organised additional education. According to informal data, doctors in Slovenia are already over 1,000, and this number has been growing significantly in recent years. In the Council and in Europe as well as in Europe, the legal regime in the field of medicine according to tradition and past legislation in this area is very different. Therefore, none of these options can be transferred directly into our legal system. That is why the preparation of this law in the field of medicine has been a long and difficult task for the author of this law, namely the Ministry of Health. The content of this law follows in particular three objectives, which we also fully support in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. First and for us, the most important objective is to protect users of medical services from harm to their health, due to the potential unprofessional and irresponsible part of individual doctors or even charlatans. Other important objectives are to regulate the unregulated area so far in order to determine, to the greatest extent possible, the types of medicine, medical care providers, the manner in which medical activities are carried out, the management of relevant documentation, which is extremely important and of course to simplify education and raise the basic knowledge of physicians. There is also a third objective here, it is extremely important for us to put in place adequate control of this area, which will benefit users and, lastly, the healers themselves. With this law coming into existence for several months, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have met many societies in the field of medicine, as well as individuals, and in the exchange of reasoned views, we have tried to contribute to the best possible proposal of this law. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that so far many good medical proposals have been taken into account in the proposed law and, of course, in the rest of the professional public. However, it is certainly not possible to take this into account, and we will nevertheless, if new ideas are born through today's debate, new proposals that will improve this area and also this law, so that we will also try to take these proposals into account in further procedures. Of course, we support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr Bojan Kontič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! In the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of this law, the proposed law, which we are considering at first reading today, stated that in Slovenia the medicine is left to the market, carried out as an economic activity and is not regulated by law. It is true that, in the Group of Social Democrats we agree, the area is not regulated. It needs to be regulated in a way to find an appropriate solution that will primarily protect the users of these services. This, of course, can only be achieved by the proposer of the law by inviting everyone to participate in the preparation, stressing all the interested public. According to the Slovenian Homeopathic Society, the Ministry of Health did not conduct the procedure for the preparation of the Law on Medicine in accordance with the principles of equality, timeliness, openness, accessibility, response, competence and, ultimately, traceability. The working group did not have equal representation of representatives involved in alternative and complementary treatments in Slovenia. As with all other proposals falling under the treatment of the Ministry of Health, no thorough research has been carried out to provide a basis for a good analysis of the existing situation in this area. A comparative view of regulation in other countries, as required by our Rules of Procedure, is not only intended to make a reference in the law, but also to serve the applicant in particular in order to make a comparable and, above all, a good proposal. We recommend that the Ministry of Health or the Minister of Public Health, in his role as a proposer, introduce into the law solutions that will bring official medicine closer to alternative and complementary treatment methods. You also wrote that the situation is so irregular that human rights relating to health protection are threatened. It happens that healers waste the health of an individual who could be cured by medicine. It is certainly necessary to protect users from charlatans, to name them patients or patients. And if I now return to the proposaler's presentation of regulation in other legal systems, I can briefly conclude that in Austria there are no specific legal rules on the use of medicine, doctors are implicitly allowed to use any medical method they consider appropriate. The condition is to gain the patient's consent. In Hungary, medicine is most often in the hands of doctors, but it can also be used by so-called physicians. In Norway, both healthcare professionals and others can take part in the treatment and must be registered in the central registry. This, of course, leads to an arrangement in our legal system that would not exclude licensed doctors from the field of alternative and complementary treatment. The question is also rightly raised whether it is necessary to introduce the Medical Chamber, is it not better to regulate this area professionally within the existing Ministry of Health? As I said in the introduction, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, he said, of course, that it was possible to agree with the Government that this area should be regulated. In doing so, it is necessary to add a condition which will ensure that complementary and alternative medicine is regulated but not eliminated. That we will also be given an arrangement in Slovenia that will bring together conventional and non-conventional medicine. Unfortunately, the proposal that we are considering today does not meet these conditions, so it cannot be supported as it is today under consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u74	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Mr Secretary of State, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. If we were able to commend the Government or the competent ministry on the consideration of the Student Food Subsidisation Act yesterday to prepare the text of the law, which was aligned with the interest sphere, we can now find the opposite in the treatment of the Medical Law. Thus, it can also be recalled from today's media that the healers, who would, in a large segment, be targeted by this law, totally reject the proposal for a text of the proposed law. A large part of the public concerned, in particular the providers of individual medical services, have much to say about the conduct of public debate on the content of the law. However, if, in the context of the public debate, they have submitted certain proposals, they note that they have not been taken into account in most cases. At the same time, the Ministry of Health prepared a proposal for a law without a previous study or research to determine the objective situation in this field in Slovenia. If not on the basis of a picture of the situation and findings and a comprehensive analysis, it could provide clear starting points on which a good and, above all, viable law could then be drawn up. Thus, without an in-depth comparative study, the law introduces into Slovenia some unique solutions that are difficult to find in other countries and cannot be recognized in other legal systems. Today, the area of medicine is extremely disorderly - here we agree with the proposaler and, due to lack of knowledge, mistakes and charlatanism can occur and as a result, people's hardships can be exploited at the expense of profit-making. The bill does not solve these problems, so in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia Club, we believe that the proposed law brings enormous shortcomings, inconsistencies and despite the objective of regulating the yet unregulated area, does not ensure the safe and proper treatment of service users. Today, patients need comprehensive treatment, which is often not offered by modern medical specialization, so it should be the basic intent of the law - to seek and achieve the common purpose of those involved in health care, that is to look for the best in the interests of the patient or the user of services. We regret that the last version of the law was drawn up by the Ministry of Health in cooperation with the representative of the Medical Chamber in such a way that the draft completely distinguishes medicine from medicine and appoints a doctor as an entrepreneur or an economic company and the patient as a consumer or user of services. Thus, the law, which should seek solutions by complementing and linking with official medicine, is already flawed at its source. In view of the fact that the law classified medicinal activity as a form of an economic company or a independent entrepreneur, as set out in Article 9 of the Law, the question arises why supervision is not then carried out by the Ministry of the Economy. In our view, medical activity cannot be easily defined as an economic company, firm, plant or independent entrepreneur. We are of the opinion that physicians are subject to similar rules as private doctors' offices. The key question is: can we simply allow economic logic for treatment? The switch could be placed at the point when the healer chooses during treatment and marketing. Furthermore, the law should talk about traditional, complementary and alternative forms of treatment and the term "medical" should be used instead of the term "traditional, complementary and alternative forms of treatment". At the same time, it would be understandable that the law would set a strict line in cases of nonmedical treatment in the field of religion, esotericism, spiritualism, and the occult. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that such a law will not contribute to solving the topic. Explaining that such a law will be better than no one will mean very irresponsible conduct for all, both service users and those who carry out it and daily trust thousands of people with their bodies and, to a certain extent, their health and, as a consequence, their lives. The law also avoids the term "medical treatment" in its text, and we know that doctors are treated sick. We therefore believe that the provisions of this law on the behaviour of people about medicine will not change. Therefore, it is very disturbing that the law by allowing an undefined concept of "other medicines" in the definition of medical systems allows unlimited wide space, undefined space and a field for further charlatanism. The terms used in the law try to define the meaning of the medical method. In doing so, the definition is very vague and loose and is not, in fact, defined and not scientifically sound or professionally validated by the proposal for a law. All is left to the Medical Chamber, which will be responsible for the recording and recognition of medical systems and medical methods and for the supervision of them. In the LDS, we believe that ambiguity and ambiguity in the definition of the most important article in the whole law defining medical systems and medical methods will lead to a type of ambiguity, both for operators and for users of medical services. We are confident that the implementation of the law, as well as the establishment of the Medical Chamber itself, will be particularly complicated, as none of the operators or many operators will know whether the method they implement is medicinal or not and whether it is a healer or not. It is therefore necessary to pay particular attention in Article 4 and to make it truly good and unequivocally clear that it will be fully clear and comprehensible to every reader of this law. Once again, it is not possible to understand clearly from the description of the methods who is a physician and who is not in Slovenia today. Also, such concepts as biopolars, coherent, endogenous, bio-electromagnetic fields and other similar concepts in marriage are incomprehensible to the average reader and would be better avoided in the law. Further comments refer, in our opinion, to the unnecessary Medical Chamber. First of all, the question is why we need it and, as a result, we finance it from the State budget if, on the other hand, the provisions of the Company Act apply to medicinal activities. In doing so, I should like to reiterate that the Chamber will not be able to recognise medical methods if they have not been investigated. Therefore, the Ministry of Health should play a more responsible role in the area of traditional, complementary and alternative medicine in terms of public health care. The Ministry of Health cannot and cannot simply transfer this responsibility to the Medical Chamber, since the Chamber always protects the narrow interests of its members, while the Ministry of Health is the one who has to take care of public health in terms of national and general interest. The Ministry of Health should therefore establish a compulsory curriculum of basic medical knowledge required for medical operators and publish it in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. By invitation to tender, designate the holders of a certified education programme and establish an official examination centre for the verification of basic medical knowledge. Each year, appoint members of the Commission to verify basic medical knowledge. Keep a public register of operators. To carry out and withdraw authorisations for operators to carry out activities, to monitor the implementation of activities and to arrange for the implementation of calls for tenders for scientific research projects in the areas of traditional, complementary and alternative forms of treatment. The weakness of the law also stems from the fact that the drafter of the law has not carried out a cost-benefit study - CB analysis or in-depth comparative study, as regulated in the Member States of the European Union. In Germany, for example, where they have very well regulated medicine, they do not know the medical chambers or medical licenses or the medical law. The Ministry of Health and Professional Associations or Associations play a major role. It is important to train a healer for the method he will use. A successful examination of basic medical knowledge is the main condition on the basis of which a healer can even be registered in a public register and begins to carry out an activity. A very simple and transparent system that has been in operation for many years and could be taken as an example of good practice in Slovenia. In a modest comparative analysis, the following countries are listed: Austria, Hungary, Germany and Norway, which are listed in the introduction of the bill: there is no medical clinic in those countries, no medical licenses. Secondly, physicians are allowed to treat with traditional complementary and alternative forms of treatment. In Austria, they do not know a medicine where only doctors can treat. In other countries, however, medicine is part of a healthcare activity and is subject to the same guidelines as other healthcare professionals. At the LDS Club, the following problem is identified in sanctioning abuses, as we are following in the media many advertisements that offer us miraculous welders and promise to eliminate almost all kinds of diseases and difficulties. Therefore, the logical question is in itself how we will punish those who act unlawfully. We also find that criminal provisions are controversial, since we believe that if a healer has a license and thus interferes with the individual's physical integrity, he must answer criminally in the event of negligence, but not as any natural person, but with even more stringent measures. The law must ensure the conditions for the maximum safety of service users and ensure that measures are taken to minimise or eliminate charlatanism. At the time of consideration of the proposed text of the Law, i.e. the Medical Law, it is particularly important to note that the Ministry of Health is preparing an amendment to two more laws, the Health Act and the Medical Service Act, whose changes are closely linked to the Medical Law. Thus, the proposal of the Medical Services Act in a number of articles, if I mention them: Articles 4, 85, 94 and 107, expressly prohibits doctors from dealing with medicine. Therefore, it can be envisaged that the Ministry of Health will also lay down a ban on medicine in the proposal for a Health Act. With this move, it will in fact completely and legally separate Slovenian official medicine from traditional, complementary and alternative forms of treatment. And by doing so, she takes away the doctor's freedom to decide on the most favourable treatment, and at the same time, she will deprive the patient of the possibility of freedom, i.e. the free and informed choice for the most favourable treatment. Slovenia will thus finally become one of the few countries in the world that requires a strict and complete separation of conventional and non-conventional medicine. With this move, Slovenia will miss the opportunity to regulate this area in a modern way and in line with trends in the world that are heading towards convergence and not separation of medicine. In the wake of the proposal, the Liberal Democracy Club will not support the bill. I think that a majority, such a decision would be logical and reasonable and would, of course, allow the Ministry of Health to prepare the content of the law on a completely different basis, which will, of course, be realistic and actually achieving what is stated in the objectives. Therefore, it will regulate this area, of course, so that it will be in the satisfaction of those who will carry out these activities and to the satisfaction of those who will receive these services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to the representatives of the Ministry and everyone in this room. A weak member in society is a sick person and here is not only a problem of an individual as such, it is also a problem and a responsibility of society, and a responsibility of the profession to make health the most of it. According to some, many people use natural remedies before visiting their personal doctor. This is not unusual, for natural healing is as old as the human race. By observing, intuition and using various materials and herbs in natural form. Of course, later, by mixing and preparing substances, we can start talking about the beginnings of pharmaceuticals, medicine and science. Why are you thinking this? To be aware that it is still in place today, that we are talking about it and that it is not in place to close our eyes, that medicine has been preserved and is still restoring health. Of course, today the country is also on the move to introduce a certain regulation in this area, so that the work can be carried out by those who have professional references and are using methods that are already established as appropriate and, above all, to prevent the entry of so-called lubricants, those who are only trading. Many healers are aware of their limits, for many conditions and illnesses cannot be cured by medicine. In the event of an already diagnosed disease, as well as in the case of a better treatment or a lower mortality rate, the highest quality of the treatment is the result. Every patient then looks for their own way. New methods have also improved the effectiveness of treatment in us, including using so-called complementary methods, complementary medicine. In the New Slovenia Group, we wonder why this area, that is, the area of medicine has not been legally regulated in the past. It is also a reason to seek the interests of the pharmaceutical industry and their fear that successful medical methods will reduce their market share on the market, while in some European Union countries homeopathic medicines have long been available in pharmacy sales, we still have them in the illegal world. So the law is more than necessary, we are confident in New Slovenia. It is difficult for us in our parliamentary group to understand the instigation against the law. This is how it is needed for those who are involved in this type of treatment, in medicine, and for those who use it. It is true, however, that at the time of this government, these coalitions, they are not for the first time opposed when a particular area wants to be regulated and thus create more order. It is important to ensure that the treatment activity in the future is not left to anarchy on the market and that the physicians are not left to themselves in their operations. We all know that this activity is taking place quite widely, including with possible negative consequences and without the protection of individuals, we could say, by oral tradition, without the existence of official records that are necessary both from the point of view of control and from the point of view of recording. And it is precisely good supervision that New Slovenia believes is necessary to ensure that the law eliminates the unprofessionalness of individual physicians and avoids liability. The law lays down the conditions for obtaining a licence, including the submission of appropriate licences, documents by recognised institutions responsible for the education of medical systems or medical methods. According to the position of New Slovenia, it would make sense to write this condition slightly more specifically, whether in law or later, by law, in particular to avoid ambiguities at the time of implementation of the law. The draft law provides that the Medical Chamber will be responsible for the recording and recognition of medical systems and medical methods. It is also intended to carry out professional supervision, distribution and extension of licences and also to withdraw licences if the healer is in serious breach of the code of professional ethics and makes a greater professional error in his work and if the handling or abandonment of medicinal products would result in permanent or worse consequences for human health. In Novi Slovenija, we can establish to a certain extent the views that as such the chamber should be less necessary and that the Ministry of Health should take over the licensing tasks. However, it is not possible to pass on the fact that it is important that tasks and responsibilities are transferred to a lower level, since the ministry is a little far from medical science itself. We support solutions that medical activities can only be carried out by persons with at least secondary health education and stricter conditions for carrying out the field of homeopathy. The proposal sets out the completion of the Faculty of Medicine and the lessons learned from homeopathy. It makes sense to explicitly prohibit misleading advertising, as well as the obligation that the physician should be informed of the health problems of the user before the initiation of the treatment and also be familiar with his medical documentation. The physician will have to maintain medical documentation and it is important that an integral part of this documentation will also be a statement by which the user of the medical service will consent to such treatment after a prior explanation, i.e. for medical treatment. We support strict criteria and stipulations that the healthcare provider should immediately propose medical treatment to the user if the doctor suspects, suspected of worsening the disease or serious signs of the disease. This is also one of the reasons for the permanent withdrawal of the licence if the physician acts contrary. In view of the trends in other European countries, we also expect greater cooperation with us between the so-called official medicine and complementary or alternative medicine, especially for the well-being and life of the person, and in particular it seemed important to me that the Ministry's representatives stressed this in their introductory part. In the parliamentary group, we will give our support for the law to be further discussed, but also, of course, by taking into account the arguments that we will hear in the debate today.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that health is a universal value and human right. Therefore, everyone has the right to the best medical care and quality medicines in case of illness or injury. Of course, it is important to stress that on the other hand it is also the individual's duty and responsibility to take care of his or her health and that the country, in cooperation with the expert, is responsible and competent to ensure that people are able to take care of their health. In doing so, we must be aware that we have one better health system in Slovenia and that citizens' awareness of a healthy lifestyle is getting better. In this light, we also look at the law that is before us today. Everything shows that the old proverb no longer applies, and health cannot be bought. People are increasingly earmarked for various products and methods, techniques, exercise, massages, for better health, for better health and for their health and therefore for a better appearance. Everyone has the right and the right to choose and decide how to help themselves to health. In the law before us, we are dealing with a very complex problem, which is difficult to deal with through legal provisions to this extent in order to satisfy the interests of all stakeholders, both users and operators of the so-called treatment, who also have different treatment concepts. In the parliamentary group, we agree with the basic principles of this law, which is to ensure the safety of the health of the user of medical services. However, we are changing that this is a very sensitive area and material, and it is therefore necessary to examine very responsibly and in detail the proposed solutions in law, which otherwise aims to regulate the area that is very different in the world. From complete market abandonment and demand to the restriction that only healthcare professionals deal with it. It can be recognised in parallel to medicine or integrated in medicine. We support the proposaler's intention to seek by law to raise the basic knowledge of physicians and to ensure quality and transparency of work and, above all, professional supervision. This law introduces the first steps towards regulating this area, so in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we believe that we must also listen to a number of comments and consider certain provisions that are not definitively defined in this law. It is true that the World Health Organisation, of which Slovenia is also a member, calls in its strategies for a link between traditional medicine and complementary and alternative medicine to be integrated into the national health system. In Resolution 1206, the Council of Europe called on Member States to support and accelerate comparative studies and research programmes in the field of traditional and complementary medicine. The European Parliament also adopted a resolution on the status of non-conventional medicine. This calls on the countries of the European Union to initiate procedures for the formal recognition of non-conventional forms of medicine based on studies and the development of research programmes on the safety and effectiveness of complementary and alternative forms of treatment. These guidelines are not, according to some opinions, entirely satisfactory in the draft law. We support the protection of users of complementary and alternative medicine services, as one of the main objectives set out in the bill, but the law should be designed in accordance with global trends based on integration rather than on separation of official medicine from alternative. Health professionals, as operators of complementary and alternative medicine, have a legal basis for their operation already in Article 59 of the Health Act, but this option has not survived except in the case of acupuncture, on the contrary, as it would appear, doctors will have to give up their profession and mission if they are to carry out one of the systems and methods that are elsewhere part of health activities and will be forced to become physicians. We therefore believe that this distinction should be further explored and that the law should be more flexible in this regard. For the safety of users, the key professional competence of operators who do not have a medical education is, of course, very loose in the bill. It also does not provide for a transitional period for the acquisition of the required skills for those physicians who have been registered for years. The law must first specify which systems and methods are included in medicinal activities. It does not now mention them; only loose definitions are given. European legislation introduces a term of complementary and alternative medicine, which the applicant does not use in this law, but uses the term medicine. Traditional Chinese medicine, which has one of the most established systems of alternative medicine in the world, is renamed in the bill to traditional Chinese medicine. We believe, however, that the applicant should follow EU documents that define complementary and alternative medicine as being healthy. Instead, in the objectives, principles and main solutions of the law, medicine is defined as an activity carried out by physicians to improve the health and quality of life of service users and the scope of measures and activities based on medical systems and medical methods and carried out in a manner that does not harm health. As we know in EU countries, doctors are mainly involved in homeopathy, acupuncture, osteopathy and chiropraks. For example, doctors in Germany need an additional 350 hours of professional training to obtain a homeopathy license. To the extent that laymen wish to implement it, they must carry out a programme of 3,600 hours. For example, doctors will be able to do homeopathy in Slovenia, but only as doctors who will not have a doctor's license or their license will be revoked. Members of the Slovenian People's Party support that the operator of traditional complementary and alternative medicine must have a licence to carry out his activities. There is also a need to control this activity. However, we propose that further consideration of the law will also complement the definitions and relevant roles and competences of the Medical Chamber, including in relation to other legislation which now regulates the competences of national professional qualifications and the functioning of economic activities, which, by this law, includes medicine and, on the other hand, the competence of professional supervision to be exercised by the profession, i.e. the medical profession. We need to reconsider whether this activity belongs to the economic or health sector. Could it not be better to establish an office or sector for this area within the Ministry of Health? It is also necessary to examine the scope of ensuring the protection, collection and use of data to be selected in accordance with the provisions of Article 12 of the Law by the Medical Chamber and the documentation to be provided by the physicians. It is also necessary to take sufficient time to prepare the necessary sub-legislative acts and to examine a number of comments from the operators, their associations and trade unions. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the draft Law on Medicine, with the expectation that some provisions of the law will be re-examined in the course of the procedure for the most fundamental and important reason. To regulate the area by allowing every user, citizen and citizen an accessible and secure choice of ways, methods and means to improve or maintain health in addition to the so-called official health care. In doing so, I should also point out that it is necessary to provide everyone with correct information on the various alternative and complementary treatment methods in order not to defraud or succumb to false advertising, by exempting treatment, by damaging the course of treatment or even delay the necessary treatment in due time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u79	Thank you. Ms Cveta Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall and representatives of the Ministry! In fact, the bill and the treatment of the Health Act should be welcomed and welcomed in view of the developments in this regard. At last, the state is supposed to wake up from the warmth and blindness, after years of head-to-heads in the sand, and stubbornly insisting on the disorder in the field of natural healing, should finally try to regulate an area that has grown to unimaginable proportions in recent years. The law was supposed to help us start by separating weeds from grains. Many rainforests, which present themselves as miracle workers to people in distress and disease, are expected to protect the interests of the patients in particular. A modern law is also expected to establish an increasingly established cooperation between official traditional medicine and complementary alternative medicine in the world. Unfortunately, though, with great disappointment, the law did not follow. According to some estimates, there are already around 5,000 physicians in Slovenia, such as others, who have also started organizing themselves at this time and have repeatedly prayed that this area needs to be regulated and regulated. And economics data. In a so-called drugstore, it's supposed to turn around about 20 billion tolars a year. It was commendable that representatives of the Ministry of Health invited some so-called healers to draft the law, but today we can see that this was only a form. After 13 versions, we have a final version, which was already under public consideration last October. In it, mostly so-called healers, they rejected the law in its entirety. The Health Care Act, as is already the practice of products brought by the Minister of Health, is not prepared on the basis of a thorough research and analysis of the situation in this area, is not harmonised, the final version is significantly different from the last proposal in coordination and will cause even more confusion, as all those involved in complementary and alternative medicine even publicly predict boycott and the withdrawal of professions to illegality and this message must be of concern to us. The relation to complementary medicine may also indicate the absence of Minister Bručan in today's debate, the first hearing of the Medical Law. According to our assessment, the Ministry must withdraw the law and substantially upgrade it and find at least a minimum common language with those involved in complementary and alternative medicine. Take into account at least some of their proposals, but not just stand up for official, traditional medicine and defend the most conservative and orthodox approach to this area. The bill is already inadequate in the title - "medication" is not the right term for this area, it is not appropriate in defining the concept, methods and systems of complementary or alternative medicine. The loose definitions will cause even more confusion than the arrangements. Some complementary doctors, such as Zdenko Dumančič, even predict that if the law stays the way it is, they will leave Slovenia. Last but not least, the World Health Organization uses what is termed "health" in our law; of course, we know that the term chosen may be, perhaps even on purpose, including with a number of negative connotations that may be close to it - I mean, above all, expressions such as: lubrication and charlatanism; hence, the World Health Organization exclusively uses the term "complementary" and "alternative" medicine. Traditional Chinese medicine has become "traditional Chinese medicine" in our law. Why is that? Since the starting point of the law is not to seek ways and ways to cooperate between official medicine and complementary medicine, alternative medicine has prevailed by strict scientific doctrine, as well as by the fear of that part of medicine which does not recognise these forms, which gives them no meaning, despite the historical facts of the many methods that have proven to be giving and giving results, and lately also some scientifically proven methods and results. The starting point is conservative and survival, because in the world, medicine and complementary methods are becoming increasingly intertwined. They are involved in the treatment of patients in a complementary manner, that is, complementarities. In this regard, it is interesting that Slovenian medicine is all too little to ask why, according to some data, more than 60% of patients are already seeking medical attention. What do they miss, what distracts them from medicine? Since no analysis has been done, we can only guess. Is this because health care works too strictly rational? Although each doctor has already experienced powerlessness and lack of treatment, we know that there are still many incurable diseases. Is this because medicine is over-emphasized and directed only to disease and pharmaceutical products and to the patient as an individual with his disease, as a person, as a person in distress? We can talk about a major crisis in the empathic attitude towards a patient in medicine, which has been observed several times between doctors. Treatment will have to be treated in a comprehensive manner. And treatment will never, as Dr. Zlata Remškar wrote, only mathematics, where one and one are always two. It is for this reason that medicine should place much more emphasis on its openness and sensitivity to accept new ones, which would also show that it would advocate that a number of complementary and alternative methods should also be scientifically checked to encourage and gradually introduce such verification into practice. It's all forgotten and ignored by the Medicine Act. With complete exclusion, however, many positive and successful examples of the practice of which the voice of the people is spreading are already taking on credibility in advance. Complementary and alternative medicine should therefore be accepted for the benefit of the patient, drawn from it all positive, given the place he deserves in public, which he obviously did not achieve. It is interesting that we will be among the last to pass the law in this area, but we can be classified as one of the most restrictive without taking into account the many other countries that have taken different paths. In this regard, it is particularly important that part of the medical profession of traditional medicine is fully hampered from complementary and alternative medicine. This is also followed by a proposal from the Ministry of Health. This is particularly evident in the restriction when a doctor, a doctor of medicine who would seriously like to deal with so-called medicines, such as homeopathy or any other form of alternative medical methods, will be deprived of a medical license for such a doctor. This is also the case with the Medical Services Bill, which prohibits doctors from using medical methods, although we know from practice that many doctors are very inclined to do so or are already working to investigate individual complementary or alternative methods. Such a demeaning attitude towards doctors involved in complementary and alternative medicine is demeaning. The World Health Organisation has also accepted a call from countries to arrange links between traditional and complementary medicine to allocate resources for health research into the effectiveness and effectiveness of complementary and alternative medicine. The Council of Europe has also done the same in its resolution and the European Parliament with a resolution calling for European countries to start formally by recognising non-conventional forms of medicine. We are also reminded of all of this in their opinion from the State Council. Almost nothing has been done in this area in Slovenia so far, but unfortunately it will be done in advance. The legislative proposal has almost completely ignored and ignored all these documents, not based on these starting points which we believe should be the basis for the drafting of the law. At the same time, of course, there is a high expectation of so-called healers as well as the public after establishing adequate and effective supervision for the benefit of patients. Surely it is right for so - called healers to have an adequate education. It is also good to have a national professional qualification and to obtain a certificate on this basis. However, we do not agree with the solution to surrender and leave these public powers to the Medical Chamber, but it is necessary to do so in the form of a State Commission appointed by the Ministry of Health. It's just like Germany's. There is no need to re-examine mandatory membership in one of the Chambers, this time in the Chamber of Medicine, because it will serve only the interests of profit and clan activities, as all the required education and certification will be in its hands. The role of the Medical Chamber is not fully clear in the law and, in our view, it would be more appropriate to set up an office within the Ministry of Complementary or Alternative Medicine. Finally, I should like to take stock of the key comments on the law in the following comments. First, let the name of the law be changed. The bill should bear the title of the Complementary and Alternative Medicine Act. Secondly, the term medicine should be replaced by the term complementary and alternative medicine. Thirdly, it is necessary to define systems and methods of complementary and alternative treatment and to clearly define them and not write any other form. Under the word of other medicines, the specific forms of treatment should be clearly defined. More precisely, it is necessary to define the conditions for obtaining licences, for individual areas treated, and to grant licences to the State. Instead of the Medical Chamber, it is necessary to establish a Office for Complementary and Alternative Medicine. If such a law is to be drawn up, and because such comments are so great, in our Group of Non-Aligned Members, we do not really consider the law at this stage and such a form, in particular because of the fundamental origin from which it comes from, and this is the complete separation of traditional medicine from complementary and alternative medicine, we will not support such a law, we believe that it is necessary to return it, at least to a minimum, to be aligned with the physicians, because the forecasting boycott and departure to strictly illegal means that such a law will remain only a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President! Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! It is true that we need a law on medicine, but not the law we have today, and not so fast prepared and so charlatan law. It is also true that in an unregulated system, healers do work unprofessionally and, in fact, we can also see many times that we are dealing with charlatans. And it is true that many times people are left with only the fact that they are prosecuted in the courts and most often choose the ones most advertised on the websites. That's the truth. However, it is also known that classical medicine does not eliminate disease completely or eliminates many times only symptoms. And it is well known that alternative medicine solves the complex problem many times. These are facts, these are true facts, which are also recognized today by official doctors. However, the source of official traditional medicine should be in principle a medical claim that everything that does not harm is good. And that's not what this is all about. It is not easy because of the creation of some dogma, the Ministry of Health, when this law was drafted, has not even done a basic research, as colleagues and colleagues have already said, and in fact an objective assessment of the situation in Slovenia is not shown in the form it should be. It's shown unilaterally, with forced views. Why? Maybe it's because there are major drug commissions in health care. Perhaps because patients are not properly provided or without adequate treatment, we know that a person with a wallet is better treated. And that insurance companies even, even, allow themselves to do so, create new insurance packages to reduce waiting lines, which is a kind of paradox in Slovenia. This should be forbidden by law. So if you pay a little more insurance, you have a guarantee that you'll be in surgery first. This is official medicine. And it is understandable that both patients and users of these services are not satisfied with the medicine available to us today, just because the waiting species are so long. And they often resort to alternative medicine. See, it is also incomprehensible that in fact a doctor who resorts to the recognition that alternative medicine can be his tool for successful treatment and use it, loses his license and is no longer a doctor, but only a person who has finished medical school. Is it not shameful that even in this way we interfere with the system and force people to do something that they may have verified for themselves? A decision should be taken whether the healer is healthy or merely contributing to the improvement of the condition. So in Slovenia, will physiotherapists become healers because they actually have these abilities. I simply do not understand these provisions of the bill's proposer, and with all due respect, I want to join in what has already been said that this law is fully unprepared and quickly "scrambled" in order to meet the needs of some who point out this. For if the purpose of this law were to establish transparency, then the proposal would take into account the proposal of the Health Act, which was prepared by 3.1.2007 for intersectoral coordination. In fact, at the time, the applicant took due account of the treatment methods and gave appropriate indication of all alternative treatment sources. Today, the question is also raised whether the Golnik Hospital, which has experimentally introduced music therapy in the treatment of patients who, for example, are ready for surgery, will be known to calm music, whether this music therapy will be defined as a medical method under this bill. What are we going to do, say, with those who will come from other countries to provide us with such services? It is known that in Russia there is a purely normal study of chiropractics and we have doctors who have made a fully valid diploma and it is known that in Germany alternative doctors, if I may say so, have all the legal grounds to operate. Even in other countries, as we've heard before. I personally want to know what the purpose of this marriage is. If there is greater transparency, then take into account what you wrote in the proposal 3.1.2007. By adopting such a bill, Slovenia will certainly close all doors in the field of health care to all complementary and alternative methods. We will set ourselves up in a series of conservative countries with a slightly longer route than the end of the Inquisition. The Ministry of Health, which is the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, must take a more responsible role in this area towards health care in terms of public health care. If he doesn't do it, he didn't do his basic job. It is your duty, Your Honor, at the Ministry of Health to represent public health. And this is one of the methods that can make a significant contribution to this level being higher. In the Slovenian National Party, such a scribbled law, which is simply written for unilateral purposes, perhaps even with a desire for commissions, we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Vasja Klavora will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u84	Dear Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The area of medicine in Slovenia is not fully regulated by any applicable and normative act. Citizens of Slovenia now have an unlimited option of free choice in the use of different courses of medicine, if that is what they want. They are self-paid for these medicinal methods, as health insurance companies do not cover the costs of the use of services belonging to the medical profession. And it is precisely this marital irregularity, which, in our view, is most worrying, that allows the users of these services to be completely unprotected, since they are not protected from the possible abuses or damage they would suffer. The current regime allows for the treatment to be carried out by anyone, without a licence, verified professional qualifications, concessions or requirements and conditions of the State or public authorisation to carry out an activity, solely through the registration of an economic activity. On the other hand, marital irregularity allows all physicians, unfortunately also so-called charlatans, who are not a few, who are publicly misleading, to work in black, thus severely pooring the budget treasury, as according to some data about EUR 50 million per year in medicinal species. It is primarily the duty of the State to protect the individual, the user of these services, and to prevent the operation of self-proclaimed physicians who shed bad light on all other doctors who are assisting patients professionally and honestly in their difficulties with the methods already in place in the world. In our view, it is necessary to ensure a uniformly regulated professional, programme and systemic functioning of operators involved in the implementation of natural treatment. The basic purpose of the proposed law is to protect the user of medical services from harm to health, to regulate the situation on the health service market, to provide transparency and the public with implementing medical services and to introduce supervision of physicians. And what the new bill brings: strict separation of medicine from official medicine, the establishment of a medical chamber. In doing so, I would like to say that I have heard many times today what is in this or that country, especially what is in Germany. It is not necessarily better in Germany than in Germany. Germany has a lot of money and a lot of money flows into this sphere. On the other hand, I would like to mention Austria, which does not have it, but we neighbors and we have always sworn to Austrian medicine throughout history. Compulsory medical education is required, full age, secondary education and national professional qualifications are required. I also agree with the remark of the Medical Chamber that a higher level of medical knowledge is necessary for homeopathy, which can only be performed by persons who have completed a medical faculty and acquired knowledge from homeopathy. The physicians will be monitored by the Medical Chamber and will be supervised by the Ministry of Health. Penalties for physicians shall be laid down for infringement of the provisions of the law. The doctor will have to maintain documentation on the users of the service. The fact is that every person who has a job has the right to choose between a doctor and a healer, as well as the right to refuse treatment at all. However, it is essential that the State lays down at least some basic legal framework which lays down the conditions for the operation of physicians. In doing so, I would like to mention and recall article 11 of the proposed law, when I mentioned this, which speaks of consent to the medical system or medical method by way of an explanatory duty. It may be useful to take into account the comments made by the Medical Ethics - Medical Faculty Commission on the Proposal for a Medical Law. And let me say this, an adult patient who is able to make decisions about himself has the right to choose treatment from a doctor or a self-paying service from a doctor, whether the latter is known only in his pocket or will have more or less adverse health effects. He also has the right not to choose either one and the other and even to prohibit an intervention that could save his life - such a right the patient has. However, there are two other categories of our citizens in which we should stop slightly, especially when we consider Article 11. What about a sick child or adults who are incapable of making decisions about themselves? These are, for example, patients with mental disorder, patients with an emergency condition, unconscious, children up to 15 years of age. Children’s parents or responsible caregivers of incapacitated persons have no right to choose a physician instead of a doctor and the physician has no right to take responsibility for the health of these patients with his methods without proven effectiveness. This could result in irreparable harm to health or even death. Therefore, it might also be useful to give this 15th article as an additional article and to write: 'a doctor should not accept a sick child for his treatment if he is not already in the care of a doctor at the same time and for the same disease or condition. The same applies to an adult patient who is incapable of making decisions about himself." This article would, in fact, take account of Article 11 of this proposal, and we also find in Article 17 that "for children under the age of 15 and for persons under guardianship, the rights set out in the preceding paragraph shall be exercised by their parents and legal representatives or guardians." To make this even clearer, it would be right for parents to decide and choose a physician who does not consider that their child, for example, has type 1 diabetes and is giving up insulin. In our group, we do not believe in the so-called natural talent for this area, some areas of medicine, so we consider it necessary to establish at least basic medical knowledge, so that any individual who chooses to use one of the medical methods can be convinced or verified in advance of the doctor's education. Let me just give a brief comparison: the path of obtaining knowledge for a doctor is quite difficult, among other professions, and continues to obtain licences even after a diploma and in practice. Furthermore, the doctor is under strict official and public control and has a lot of responsibility, while, on the other hand, the treatment does not yet know these requirements, so it is absolutely necessary to standard them. Physicians should also be held responsible for the treatment of patients, as is the responsibility of doctors. We are aware that medicine is the reality of our era with which medicine, public health and the state must count. Therefore, it is high time that we also regulate this area legally in order to protect the patient and limit the number of people who cheat in distress. We are also aware that, despite the legal regulation of this area, some will continue to serve at the expense of the people, because they simply will not take account of the rules. However, we hope that such a country will be able to sanction in appropriate ways. I hope that later we will have more healers, whose primary real help will be to people and their satisfaction. In my own, I would say that I also ran into this long profession, and I was pleased if these healers continued their honest work also in people with whom official medicine could no longer help. In the Group of Members, we are convinced that any implementation of medical methods must be regulated by a regulation. Only proper legal and professional regulation in this area will lead to greater patient choice in the decision-making process. In view of the comments I have made and the comments I hope to make today's next debate, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I think that this law could be passed in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u85	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Welcome, colleagues and colleagues, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Health. It has been pointed out several times that it is extremely late for us to get this law, to regulate an area that has had an experience, even a bad one. So, the law is right and I welcome that you have prepared it to prevent abuse in order to ensure accountability and human health. On the other hand, this law can also be a kind of promotion, an incentive for an activity that contributes to the well-being of citizens. When they worked ten years ago, for example, a study on the impact on our health, how official, classical medicine affects, how alternative medicine affects, and how our lifestyle, habits actually influences, and all that we actually do have been surprised, namely, that some conventional medicine contributes 20 to 30% to our health, this is an assessment. And it consumes about 80% of our resources. So the other activities actually spend 20-30% of our resources, and they help us to our health in 70% or 80%. Therefore, it is also necessary to understand the attempt of this law to bring this unconventional medicine or medicine into the entire system of health care. And here's actually that comment I made about why you should be introducing a medicine room. It is likely that it led the proposer to set, in particular, professional starting points and professional supervision for this area. But here's the trap. In all the chambers that we have and we have to put themselves somehow above the country, they exercise their autonomy, and ultimately they also have a monopoly. I don't intend to go into the contents of medicine and medicine, because I'm not an expert on it, but I do from the point of view of regulation. As far as I am concerned, I believe that this is pre-regulatory and it would be much better if we left this matter to self-regulation, as far as organisation is concerned, but that supervision comes to the Ministry of Health to do so. This is gonna be a lot better. The second point I thought was that, of course, it was impossible to carry out this activity or that a doctor should leave his activity or give up his license. Why don't we just let it happen this way? This would also contribute to a greater link between conventional and non-conventional treatment or medicine. With this, you would not be denied by people that you want to separate this activity, that it is something secondary or less important than conventional, from a cost point of view, in terms of prosperity, well-being, which is also understood by citizens, we could arrange in this way. So, this is what we have the opportunity to discuss, as well as to adopt legislation, to improve, to correct by not understanding the area of medicine as something that is incompatible or which is not needed, which should be put somehow on the side, but to be complementary, which, in a significant proportion, contributes to the health condition of citizens and, of course, the well-being of citizens. So, I can say that I welcome the proposal of the law, but I appeal to us Members, as well as to the Ministry, that I do not intend to repeat those comments here, even my own, to remove you and get the law that will place Slovenia among those countries that have a solidly regulated cure and will be proud of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I also support that this is finally settled in Slovenian legislation in the same way as it is for similar matters in other areas, because health, we know as the greatest value, and it is the concern and right of every individual to trust this and who to trust their problems if they arise and how to alleviate them or how to greet them when you reach this stage is certainly the concern of every individual. That there is a cure in Slovenia, I did not say anything new. Over a thousand of these people are solving these matters in one way or another, and it is right that this Government and this Parliament are finally facing this issue, and this area is regulated as it has been already done in the European Union and elsewhere, and that this protection to our fellow citizens, the users, should also be regulated in the way it should be. I think this is the concern of every regulated country and this is Slovenia. It is also true that this activity in Slovenia is obviously also working successfully. This is also demonstrated by prominent Slovenian citizens, politicians, etc. and apparently to some it also works positively and it is just as it is and thank God that it is the way it is, and that when a person encounters a disease, he is looking for all possible alternatives to how to heal. It's human, it's understandable, it's completely human. If it's probably in official medicine that somehow doesn't go to the end, he's trying to make an alternative, and that's the way it is. Maybe one of them even starts with an alternative and then they start with official medicine. This is a matter of right for every individual, and I think that I have only one good opinion that this can finally be complemented together well. But it is true that these healers must meet certain conditions. I think that this is perfectly clear, as anyone who engages in any activity in a regulated society must meet certain conditions. This needs to be determined and I think that these provisions, which are proposed by law, are acceptable, appropriate, not demanding and that we have protected the user or we will protect, is perfectly clear. [[...]] But there has to be some kind of control over this whole story, and I think that too. And somehow this marriage, in my view, has, in my knowledge, and proposes. There will certainly be a lot of debate below, or there will probably be a lot of debate, as well as the adoption of legislation between so-called official medicine and alternative medicine, i.e. a doctor, a healer. The proposer has decided here, certainly after his expert opinion, in one way or another, that one and the other are incompatible and in some way I agree with it. It is difficult to be an alternate and a doctor at the same time. It's classic. I guess that's not going to work. Either you're one or the other. I don't know that you're in the same position in two roles, it's probably a little difficult, in a case like this, and I'm sure that the proposaler - the ministry has reviewed these things positive, negative, which some colleagues in the opposition think is unacceptable, that this is separate - one or the other. I think it is right and that, at the final stage, if the proposalr suggested otherwise, the position would say that this is not compatible. We are already used to this in the National Assembly, similar thinking, and I am sure that everything has been done to make this division the best benefit of our users, citizens. This is a vital message. Have we done all or will we yet do to ensure that this law will be the most appropriate of our users - a citizen, a person who comes into distress, a disease, a injury, how and how can one or other treatment be used? So that, of course, I will support this law at first reading, but I believe that through debate, through dilemmas, initiatives; for we know that obviously the healers of this law do not support the most - we know this - but the proposer has a different position. In the end, Parliament will have to decide what is most optimal and that is why the debates are, today is the first, there will certainly be some appropriate amendment on which to improve this matter, so that finally this whole, which is so important for every citizen, can be resolved, legalised and given into a framework that can benefit both one and the other, and ultimately to those to whom it is intended - that is our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government. My aim is once again to stress that only together is official medicine and alternative medicine, and we can achieve the desired results in this context. Of course, I am also against what the interlocutors have pointed out before me that some alternative cannot rule out official medicine; I think that Mr Klavor is talking about it, it is, of course, unacceptable and such people are charlatans, nothing more than that. However, we cannot pass this fact that it was not the only attempt in Slovenia, an attempt by a group to introduce recognition of alternative medicine, if we take only the last essentially attempt by the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor when they wanted to carry out specialist education from manual therapy or physiotherapy supplement and they wanted to contribute with this method of hypotherapy to the treatment of horses for children who were disturbed and, of course, a handful of conservative doctors did not allow it. These are official attempts at official medicine, known attempts of medicine that wanted this type of knowledge proven, I stress proven, to introduce into its complementary studies and this was not allowed. By law, the criminal provisions are very strict and if the service providers do not know which methods are medical, whether they have become healers or not overnight, or whether they are official medics, how then should the legal provisions we will adopt apply; you are likely to adopt them because we are adopting a type of stupidity, and this law will be adopted today. In my profound belief, this is a handful of conservative doctors. I can claim on my own case that I was greeted by a chiropractor doctor, a Russian, because official medicine did not offer me anything other than a hernia surgery, which we know is risky. For the time being, I have to knock, of course not 100 percent, but, here, I am walking; probably some of you have been in this operation, I know of some, but there are consequences. And in official medicine, they only resort to surgery when this disease is at some top point. Other doctors who have been trained in this direction are also treated with chiropractors. We're not allowed to do that. If a doctor takes such methods, he loses his medical license, he becomes only a person who has completed a medical study. This is bullshit. Why we follow Europe everywhere, we literally translate every directive as soon as Brussels sends it to Slovenia and we cannot follow and see what is good and what is bad here. The fact is that alternative medicine exists all over the world, that these are old methods, which are also carefully nurtured and complemented by new knowledge, and are used not only in Europe, but elsewhere, are centuries old. But official medicine rejects them. I see no other reason than to share huge commissions in the pharmacy and this lobby of conservative doctors worries that this will remain so. That's the only explanation, ladies and gentlemen. What's good should be accepted. And if it doesn't hurt, it should be desirable. I'm not saying that all the alternatives are good. There's also a lot of charlatans. But if we don't set a clear line and requirements, that's what's gonna happen. And there will be more and more aggressive advertisers and more people who will respond to these ads, because we know if you are sick, if you have to wait six, eight, ten months to come to a specialist review at all, you will probably also enter the infirmary that provides such services or offices, offices or whatever, or hotel rooms, many times in hotel rooms provide such services. And this should be what our Ministry of Health should say, no, bad methods, say hello to the good guys and find the best way to treat them with your hand, that's possible. And once again, we are doing something that is bad for people, and we are not following the public interest, and that is the concern for human health. And here I have a basic criticism, which is why I will also be against this law. And I call on the Minister to come to such an important hearing next time that he does not merely send his staff, the Secretary of State, which I personally respect, and that he himself is personally present. Because we know that in fact he is the main reason for such a marriage to come to our bench. I mentioned earlier a draft law that was prepared for inter-sectoral coordination, which was better than this ointment that we have today, much better, plus if we put anything on public opinion and the general public, it would be necessary to harmonise what we received here today, but not to consider just a unilateral proposal, a unilateral proposal from a group of employees at the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u91	The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. If I ask myself something solid from surveys or research, I know that health in the value system in Slovenia is very high. And since a person who lacks health is willing to do all he can to restore his health, it seems to me that I am concerned that this area, which can be well regulated and reduced by the field of unclear, Sharlatan, masquerading, was also sent to the Ministry of Health in writing on 3 February, when a controversy arose in public about how or should no one resort to any different forms of treatment, it was precisely that the Government should prepare a special law to regulate the field of alternative and complementary medicine as quickly as possible. Well, at the time, I received a very short answer, which claimed to me that they were very intensively preparing a medical bill at the Ministry, dealing with issues that had not been addressed by the previous ministries, that they had begun to prepare a law in June 2005 and that they expected that, following coordination and after a draft in February 2006, the draft would be coordinated in March 2006. Well, then there was a talk about a draft with more than 70 members, and I expected that the thing would turn out faster, I looked a little bit on the Internet, I also found a proposal for a German-style medical bill, which was dated 30 September 2006, and interestingly this draft does not carry a proposal for a chamber, nor does it carry much else. I stress this because I feel that regulating the field of complementary medicine and alternative medicine is a wide field where we can see why someone has missed something. But, look, even the drafters of this draft law, in a comparative review when they spoke about the European Union, found that the European Union has not adopted legally binding documents so far, and only homeopathic medicines are exceptions. But what I find very interesting is that when the drafters spoke about this area, they had to use the term "unconventional medicine, alternative forms of medicine," so they used the terms that are in force. I would not like to be a terminological practitioner now, as a Slovenian Slovenian woman, very pleased with the performance of this, although I must then say that it is a professional standard that was adopted in the framework of the Chamber of Commerce for Doctors or Physicians. I'm not going to explain to you how I see it, but this is a valid suffix, which isn't so common anymore, but it covers the same as the extension ex. But to get back to what I was about to say. The Council of Europe adopted a resolution, has already been cited. It was said that in different regulation of this area, however, all documents, all legal provisions, however, should be based on the principle of patient's free choice of treatment. It seems to me that free choice in this essential matter is due to the fact that this is likely to have consequences if the choice was such that it did not produce the expected results. But look, what we hear less than once and what seems to me to be too little to be taken into account in the recitals, and the resolution also makes it clear that the process of formal recognition of non-conventional forms of medicine should begin, in order to establish a legal framework for all of this and that non-conventional forms of medicine should be carried out in the future by doctors and trained practices of non-conventional medicine. However, if I come from these views in the resolution, then I must say that what is stated in the introduction and, in fact, what constitutes an assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law and which also affects the concept of the law is something far from those recommendations in the resolution. Because it's not about complementary medicine, it's not about alternative medicine, it's about something that completely eliminates. The principle of separation is perfectly clear in this introduction. And this is probably the result of the fact that the form of organisation, i.e. this status form of organisation, is possible only in the form of an economic society or an independent entrepreneur. Completely different status organisation, including with completely different financial obligations, rights or duties as you wish, as others do in health activities. I'm being held back by anyone who would like to attribute to me here right now that I want to protect the interests of the operators of this activity. I only discuss the status organisation of activities. And I'm not sure this form is the best. That's my first basic comment. The bill I quoted earlier does not have a medical room anywhere. And that's why I'd like to stop at the medical room right now. I have read very carefully, and nowhere was I able to determine whether membership in the Chamber of Physicians was a free choice or a compulsory choice. This debate seems to me to be in the interim because we broke up a successful chamber with an excuse not to be placed on the basis of compulsory membership. At the same time, we have both systems, compulsory and optional membership, but only when I went to see the reasons for this article, but the explanation of the article is as clear as I can read that membership in the Medical Chamber is mandatory. For if anyone wants to get a doctor's license, it says here: the law provides for the establishment of a medical chamber, which will be a bearing institution for monitoring medical activities. Everything's fine and fine up to here. But further, individual physicians who will have an interest in obtaining a license will be included in the Chamber and will follow certain rules that will ensure greater order in medicinal activities in the Republic of Slovenia. I'm sorry, that's poetic freedom for me now. The first condition is important to me. If they want to have a license and without a license they will not be allowed to do this activity, then they have to join the Chamber and I object to that because I think that there is an activity that should be linked to the protection or improvement of health, because I think even official medicine says that everything can't be cured, some things just heal, some just make it easier. So, if an official institution at state level is established, I mean, of course, the Ministry of Health, then it is also entirely competent for me to regulate these things and to maintain control of an activity that may have disastrous consequences for an individual who chooses freely for medicinal activity or alternative form. I was trying to say, say, the potential consumers of alternative or complementary medicine, what my interest is and I don't see that, in order to protect my interest, a medical chamber should be set up and I don't see from my point of view that a medical chamber should be set up, and I don't see from my point of view that they should be organised in the form of a status society. Because when I hear an economic society, I also think that all economic society is set up to generate profit. But how will we draw a line between what is in the public interest and what is already profit, I am no longer completely convinced. This is just a small contribution to this debate on the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u93	Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Honourable Presidents, Your Honors! I am one of those who is not interested in the resolution and the recommendations of the European Union. I'm interested in human health, either this health is derived from your traditional medicine or another medicine. That is why I am not interested in the resolution of the European Union and not in the recommendation. When I looked at the law, I saw that the purpose of the law was to regulate the position of a healer in our country, which means one of those who heals or tries to treat a certain percentage of people. And you arranged it as if it were an economic activity, the patient is no longer a patient, but the user is a service user, all of which is supervised by the Ministry of Health, regardless of the economic activity. However, the Ministry of Health has a negative position or a partly negative attitude towards alternative, as you call it, medicine. This first story doesn't go together. If we connect the Chamber here, membership in the Chamber of Commerce is voluntary under the new legislation, and you are bound by mandatory membership. Yeah, that's perfect nonsense! I heard the word "charlatan" most of the time here today. This law is charlatan, we have charlatan doctors in traditional medicine, and we have charlatans among the healers, where they don't exist, tell me where they are. There are also charlatans in traditional medicine. As far as the distinction is concerned, who is the healer, under this law. Is the cosmetics woman a healer or is she not, under this law? She could be. Just as the law is superficially written, it could be. Is it possible that Golnik Hospital is a healer? Doctors who have initiated so-called music therapy are they doctors or doctors? What is traditional medicine, as you like to call it? What's traditional? If you go to the countries of the European Union, it is traditionally something else. If we go more global, it's traditional again. In national Slovenia, you've just imagined some new things. You probably know Sweden, a Scandinavian country, you probably know the system of work, given that you come from a ministry that knows everything about health care, the so-called Carolina Institute. What is it under Slovenian law, according to the law you've drawn up? Medicine or traditional medicine, European medicine, following the recommendations of the resolutions, and I don't know what else. I believe you'll answer my question. Someone who defended the law on behalf of the largest government party probably didn't understand the law when he said, "People make their own choices about where they will be treated," I completely agree - on their own conscience. We also decide on our own conscience, sign, accept, act on our own conscience. Then this same man said, "If something goes wrong with the healer, because we went to him on our own conscience, we have nothing but a civil suit." Let me tell you how many cases of lawsuits in so-called traditional medicine have not been filed on their own conscience, but have been filed on the official proposal of someone, because these are nonsense, these are things that just don't go together. And if the law were somewhere, it seems to me that the moment is just such that this law came to Parliament, in its article, that the state should not pay either to the President of the State or to the President of the Government, either to a Member or to you, a healer, would understand why you brought him into this house today. That would make sense. But if you tell me you want to solve the medical situation in Slovenia with this law, then I don't know what you want to do. This is simple nonsense, saving absolutely nothing, putting an even greater gap between doctors and your traditional medicine. I'm going to point out once again: I'm interested in human health, I don't care who helped a person to get well, I don't care -- even if he was walking on a crane, and he got rid of what kind of disease, thank God he did. I don't care how much he paid, because if we're talking about economic activity here - traditional medicine is free. It's not free! Free is for those who have time to break their finger and have time to wait, I don't know, nine months to get an orthopedic look at them. But if it's a serious disease, let's say a heart condition, but then it's not time to wait six months for a checkup, but we have to pay to get here early. It's both payable, both of which have become economic activities. Do not deceive people, do not lift up some traditional medicine according to yours into something that is accessible to all, but healers are by their own conscience. Everything is in its own conscience, everything is about money and the ultimate goal to you, just as we should be human health, no matter how they heal. If they can heal, cough is treated with a pneumonia that the doctor does not advise traditional medicine, but gives you an antibiotic immediately, it is better to go to the doctor, regardless of the cost, because it is more appropriate and better for the body to pick up a colonel and cook it. Cough, I have this case at home myself: my daughter couldn't be treated any differently than her lungs, not her antibiotics. So don't tell me you want to save anything with this law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u95	Would you like a word, Mr. Secretary of State? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u96	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Maybe it would be time for me to come by myself as a representative of the government. I can't imagine being successful at rerouting the criticisms I've heard here today, but still. Perhaps it would be better and easier to talk if we accepted certain definitions. And maybe that's exactly where all the misdirection is. And I'm gonna start in person. I'm a medical doctor myself, not a traditional one, not an alternative one, but when I described myself after I graduated from first college, Nowhere traditional, however, at a university that taught me science, which is recognized, scientifically confirmed, is verifiable, repeatable and methods introduced into its way of treatment through certain procedures. That's the basic definition of medicine. From here on, we wanted to go to Slovenia and believe me that the commitment of the minister and his team, which I am apologizing today, is on a business trip to Brussels, but according to the law adopted by the National Assembly, I am his deputy and can also perform, so I do not know why the criticism of the minister is. In short, the commitment was to settle this area. Most of you have all pointed out that the area is messy, but you expect me to have some in-depth analysis of the unknown area. I've heard two numbers, 1,000, 5,000 are supposed to deal with how much money they spend on it. And that is precisely what the ministry or the minister is doing to reach out to this area with regulation, so that we can actually figure out what the situation is. Secondly, it is clear that we do not follow the example of neighbouring countries, so as not to follow the European Union. In fact, the European Union has not adopted binding directives in order to transpose directly with legislation, but only the orientations for the process to begin. Then follow our example in countries, and let me be very specific. If we were to follow Germany directly, after the adoption of such or other laws in Slovenia, less than a hundred people would be involved in this area, because in Germany doctors with a completed medical university are involved. No, we wanted to introduce and I am sure that the Slovenian language is rich enough to introduce the term medicine. Because as long as we accept a complementary or alternative or any other term that you put here, we assume that there is something outside medicine that will complement it. That is why we thought we would introduce a new term, which is very close to Anglo-Saxon and is rich enough to be introduced in this way. Of course, as soon as we enter the term, we also need to define what it is dealing with and I think the definition is perfectly clear, medicine is an activity carried out by healers, so in definition we also define who will perform it, and then in law we tell what the conditions are. To improve the health and quality of life of users, using medical systems and methods that must not harm health. So the basic intention is to get this area settled. We called it medicine. It is the work of healers who have to meet certain conditions that are not so severely binding as in some EU countries that they must have a medical faculty, but only certain knowledge, use the methods and systems that we will introduce together with the profession in Slovenia and also recognize, and therefore a medical chamber is also needed, with the basic aim not to harm health, health, which is actually the main value of all Slovenes, but only to upgrade. Indeed, the health system contributes 20 to 30% to the health status of the individual, but the other 70 or 80, here somewhere, do not cover doctors or alternative medicine, complementary medicine, which could be concluded from this National Assembly today, but covers intersectoral joint action to improve health. These are all sectors, all of which cover, of course, probably healers with their approach. In short, we are convinced that with the law before you, which went through a broad debate, a working group was appointed in June 2005 after a preliminary consultation, in which we invited and had the majority of the doctors in this group, a review of this working group was later needed, a law that went through public debate. More than 100 comments were then taken into account or not, and today there is a law before you, which is an important step in Slovenia to regulate this area. With regard to the Medical Chamber, the article itself does not state that it is a compulsory membership. Perhaps the explanation is somewhat embarrassing, we apologize for it, we will do it, but the actual article itself is not to read that it is binding or compulsory, and it was not meant to do so. In the working group itself, which was composed of the area was set up as a profitable activity and therefore retaining, it was also the direction of the working group to remain as a profitable activity and therefore operate in companies rather than in companies or institutions that are mostly non-profit-making. In short, these were commitments or expectations of areas. I am sure that it would make sense and that the law is a good basis for further discussion, we have listened carefully to the comments, and perhaps we could upgrade the law with some, because Slovenia needs such a law to be regulated in order to make it transparent and finally, I am happy, I have also heard a Member who said why Slovenia would not offer a law that others would apply in the EU. In fact, the countries that have this area regulated are few, but we have used the term used in the space, medicine and I believe that this term is even more appropriate and that the Slovenian language is rich enough to use it. Maybe I'll come up with another comment later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A nice greeting to all present in this hall! The area of medicine that we are talking about today has not been regulated by law so far, and I think it is right that it is high time for us to have one legal regime in this area. Although I will generally say that there are many things in health care, including in public health, many things still need to be regulated and regulated. I went to the Clinical Center and Oncology Institute myself last year, and I have a pretty long list of things that I think we need to start dealing with in this area as well. Well, let me get back to today's subject, to medicine and this law. The basic purpose and purpose of the law is certainly to only definitively regulate the situation in this area of medicine and to also protect people's health in this way and, I will say, people's lives. Why is there a need for protection? There's been talk of charlatans and stuff before. I agree that in all areas there can be incompetence or mistakes, but it is our concern that we are trying to work out what can be done, which can help to prevent these matters. I myself agree that people are free to decide what treatment they will choose to make that is their decision. And if I look around my environment, I see just one fact, which has been quite present lately, that people go to their doctor or public health, but just in case they are not satisfied with it, and they go to another in one month, and they are not satisfied here, but they go to Austria a little bit to Hungary. While I leave a truly free decision here, it is only right that all those involved do their work professionally, at a level that we, as a country, are obliged to ensure that these matters are regulated as much as possible, I will stress once again, particularly for the benefit of the patient. So I'm going to say that it seems very important to me that the state also allows healers to have a legal basis for work, and of course what I have already said to protect the patient legally. Both sides are the ones I think needing and receiving certain protection in this law. Perhaps this proposed law is too demanding, perhaps too restrictive, too restrictive, too limited or too regulated. I must say that I support this, because it may be very easy to simplify the matter later on with some correction, I would say, to reduce these requirements and restrictions, but it would be very difficult after the adoption of the law if the need to sharpen matters. So, I think, I strongly support the way we go with a pretty solid, sharp matter and if the need arises, let's ease the matter. I would also like to point out that maybe when people decide on a way of being treated, that they are under the influence of advertising, media or perhaps, I will say uglyly, saying-indications and people, if it is only on this basis that we have these doctors, I will say, or that we will make sure that there will be quality and control in this area, and that what I said in the beginning would be as little as possible, both in doctors and in public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u99	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, for the floor and a nice greeting to all those present in the Chamber, in particular the representatives of the Ministry of Health. I just want to say that I'm going to have to do some of the things we've already heard today, but I think it's important. In view of the fact that Slovenia is a member of a whole range of organisations that have already been spoken and called on by Member States in this or other way, I would like to reiterate that Slovenia is both a member of the World Health Organisation, which has called on national health systems in their strategies to establish a link between traditional medicine and complementary and alternative medicine. He is also a member of the Council of Europe, which invited members to support and accelerate comparative studies and research programmes in the field of traditional and complementary medicine. The European Parliament's resolution of 97 years ago, which has been said to have passed for ten years, sets out the status of non-conventional medicine, which requires Member States of the European Union to begin processes of formal recognition of non-conventional forms of medicine based on studies and the development of research programmes on the safety and effectiveness of complementary and alternative forms treated. None of these guidelines and calls are satisfactorily included in the proposal for a medical bill; on the contrary, the law sets a sharp and very negative line between traditional and alternative medicine. The fact is that traditional medicine in a wide range of areas uses alternative medicine intensively, not only acupunctures and acupunctures, but even a number of others, today we have heard, that I did not even know that Golnik claims to use music as a method that helps increase the effectiveness of treatments, probably traditional methods of medicine. And who can confidently claim that the methods introduced by, say, physiology or psychiatry are fully scientifically sound and verified that there are no whole types of methods among them that doctors or those people who deal with alternative and complementary medicine or that this law declares them scientifically unreliable with their left hand and therefore marginal or worse? One of the most improbable requirements of this law, which, by the way, is in total contradiction with all the three documents that I have mentioned before, is that doctors should give up their profession and mission if they are to perform one of the systems or use one of the methods that are elsewhere part of healthcare and will be forced to become healers. This delimitation should be subject to additional in-depth analyses and the law should certainly be more flexible. None of the comments and criticisms of this proposal of the law related to the supervision that the law would have imposed on medicinal activities, was related to keeping records, monitoring the activities of physicians, and it is therefore unfair to suggest that those who do not agree with the so-called Medical Act to regulate alternative and complementary medicine and to prevent lubrication or charlatanism in this area. The fact is that medicine in Slovenia and around the world is an increasingly widespread method not only of treatment, but also of changing lifestyles and helping to quit, which can be an ideal support for traditional medical methods, so I think that the Ministry of Health has taken steps to regulate the area of alternative medicine and complementary medicine from the wrong side. It would therefore not be too much if today, when we vote on the Health Ministry's Health Health Act, we made it clear that we should go to the preparation of the Medicine Act, which would, too, I agree with this, better to call the Alternative and Complementary Medicine Act from the point of view, allowing for the integration of traditional and alternative and complementary medicine and thus more effective at the same time safer treatment of patients and hospitals in Slovenia. It is interesting that many people do not even know that traditional medicine services in Slovenia are exempt from value added tax, while this law officially pushes medicine, which is part of medicine, into economic activity, which means that these services are charged with 20% value added tax. What does that mean in some way? In some ways, this means that etablished, traditional medicine, people working in this area may also prevent the competitiveness of alternative medicine in the treatment of patients in a competitive fight. This activity is probably not an integral part of the health system for many, many years and decades, and will not be financed by a health insurance company. However, it is certainly not fair and correct to burden it with the highest value added tax compared to the fact that classical medicine, traditional medicine, also a completely private health activity, which in this case is a market activity, is not burdened by a zero value added tax rate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u101	Mr. Bojan Homan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. It is right that the law is somehow being considered to somehow confirm it and give it the opportunity to carry out the following consideration. There has been a great deal in this area of concern, and with this law we give at least little opportunity to healers or these groups to somehow establish themselves on the market so that they can work according to uniform standards in order to establish a minimum order that we can afford at all. There have been a lot of concerns as to who the doctor can be, what education a physician should have, when he can start an activity, how he can start an activity, and here in this law there are at least some minimum standards to determine who is a doctor, where he is doing an activity, which he has to have a minimum education and at what cost he can provide this service. I would be much more pleased that medicine and this healing could somehow work hand in hand but we know that health care is still somehow, I can say, this organization and great progress is at least here, that somehow at least for the beginning it has given in and prepared this minimum basis for the adoption of this medical law. I am confident that in time this cure will go in a more positive direction and that you will eventually be able to work as a doctor and healer with your hand in hand. Here I see an endless, open opportunity for both of us, we could both work and eventually be better, more popular with people. Above all, here I would say in post-operative treatment there are various alternatives, homeopathy, acupuncture and somehow recognized branches of the endless possibility that this treatment will be improved and bloated. I think that doctors will also have to somehow see and summarize this standard, which is already recognised abroad and also by us, to listen even more to these markets, to these trends, but one basis, the minimum basis is given, the conditions are, the law is for living, the thing is not concrete and can change. I think it's kind of a praiseworthy basic for starters, and I'm also going to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Aleš Gulic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u104	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! Surely it would be right that the area of medicine, witchcraft, shamanism, whatever they would call it in Slovenia, would be regulated. And surely we would have been supported by such a law that would actually regulate it. But unfortunately, the proposal before us doesn't make it right. Very briefly, more lyric than epic I'm going through all these things. In the world, however, there is a path that has already been mapped out. Rather, it speaks of the need to combine these knowledge, these approaches and not distinguish them. It is called combining so-called classical scientific medicine and traditional medical or medical treatment systems, methods. This proposal, which is before us, insists on a very clear separation of both, not only that it is very separate, but in the meantime leaves some room again for something that would be gray, black, illegal, bad. This is certainly neither a proponent nor a legislator nor people who are involved and people who would benefit from it do not want to do so. The law could, after all, be called otherwise, or should be called the Law on Traditional Complementary and Alternative Medicine or Alternative Treatments. As it is, just as we have heard this debate, we can see that it is causing greater confusion, as medical systems include those that some who have completed so-called Western Medical Schools use. These are those who are bound to traditional Chinese, Indian medicine, which preserves the European tradition of homeopathy and so on. Basically, the basic subject of this law is, in some ways, vague and inconclusive and, of course, pointless. The fact that Slovenian medicine is loaded into some very general economic activity is certainly bad. Here, however, we need to get closer to what we call humane, or closer to this medicine that we consider official medicine. Another thing that bothers me is that the Slovenian doctors are called those who have completed medicine in Ljubljana or who are recognised from elsewhere, or who will finish medicine in Maribor when the first generation comes out to take away their license and become then, I mean, it's really harsh, people who have finished medical school. This is as good as it would be for me because, for example, I also advocate the use of slang and slang, because it is perfectly okay for the Faculty of Philosophy to take away the license of the professor of Slovenian language. That's bullshit. This is a unique solution that shows a demeaning attitude of power towards the university. Once again, we have something that goes from a purely governmental position and, of course, this authority can regulate everything. These are bad things. Such solutions, which leave us in the middle of space, then lead us to get again an illegal or semi-legal group of some healers, or whatever they say, who would know this and that, and they would not be able to be placed anywhere and not be entrepreneurs again, would not go into economic activity, not into health care, and could all those who for such or other reasons do not want to make decisions about what is official, take space. Once again, we would have some new fortune tellers or fortune tellers who would sell this famous Menart recipe, which reads as follows: a letter of black wine, a branch of rosemary, twice a day after three quinine powders. It's a recipe. Those of you who've studied these things know what they're for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u105	Mr. Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! As I mentioned at the time of the postponement of the Group's position, this proposal for a law is indeed an important and first step towards ensuring that this area of irregularity is as much as possible regulated to ensure that order prevails in this area and, above all, that users of such services receive protection and security from irresponsible and non-professional providers of such services. If we go now to monitor or analyse what laws or laws the providers of these services would like to have, we would probably have as many laws as there would be performers, because everyone sees in this regard their own interest or sees where the matter will now be more regulated in his field, which will contribute to it or direct certain procedures or changes in operation, even though this will lead to order. Some of the comments made by the speakers were, I can say, in place or still to be discussed, some were misleading, demagogic, and I am sure that, after today's discussion, another proposal will then be drawn up, which will then also be introduced into the amendments themselves. If I touch only a few such remarks, which I consider to be unjustified. The first is certainly the one where some suggest that there is a mandatory membership in the Chamber for each contractor. This law does not explicitly stipulate this, and the opinion and position of the consultation also formed that compulsory membership in the Chamber would not be specified in the law. It means that one who sees the interest, his protection, the possibility of education and the exercise of interests with a representative body will join the Chamber. On the other hand, comments were made that the Chamber was unnecessary. But when we had a number of stakeholders in the interviews in the parliamentary group, even some felt that there should be even more chambers in order for each to be more narrowly specialised in terms of activity. Once again, we see that conflicts or thinking are different. Observation or comment that no analysis has been carried out in this field. I'm sure the analysis was done, but whatever analysis was done or would have been done, none of it would have been perfect. For if this area has now been left to itself, it means that it is difficult to have and also to obtain information on all that would serve as an objective and realistic assessment of the situation, as well as on the basis of this preparation of appropriate proposals. The fact that this law separates health care or so-called complementary or alternative medicine and official medicine can be partly confirmed, but I do not understand it. Because in this law, medicine, which includes complementary and alternative medicine, wants to be framed and defined the rules of the game, as well as the control needed for this area. Today, and even in those days, there have also been reports in the media of various associations or representatives of healers from various areas that express dissatisfaction with this law and do not support it. If we can get a summary of which groups are complaining. It is likely that, above all, those who will be instructed by this law will have to frame their activities in an area that will then be regulated, which will then be able to be supervised, and that patients or users of these services will also have some protection in case of non-professional and non-professional work. So any such criticism is, I'm sure, the result of some subjective view of it, the search for some of its benefits. Everyone would like to be free from prejudice to the status or position acquired so far, either on the market or in this activity in general. In the course of this debate, and even at that time until the next hearing, I am sure, as I have already mentioned, that some solutions will be found even to those articles that would be considered to have been added, in order for this law to be as good as possible. However, I will also conclude with this, every law that is passed either in Slovenia or in any other country is not ideal, always needs to be amended by time-bound changes, which are also dictated by the practice of changing circumstances and so will continue in the years to come, if we adopt it, it is necessary and also part of those changes that will bring this activity into such a state that they will be satisfied to the greatest extent possible by such doctors, and especially by users. Above all, it is important that users also have the possibility of protection and also security. As I have already mentioned, I will, of course, support this law as suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u107	Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u108	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Have a nice hello again. So when we were able to listen to this debate today, the debate convinced me that we are talking about a very important area. But what we consider to be a cure was very difficult to understand today, because there were so many different expressions that could be heard through the debate, but, of course, there was a very different picture of individual debaters that I found it to be reinforced by the fear that this law, as it is prepared, would not be achieved by the goal that we would like to pursue in order to settle this area, would bring further confusion to this area. Why I speak this way, I will try to justify it hereafter. The key dilemma that appears to me here is the fact that we will evaluate the concept of all events outside the concept of official medicine as defined in Slovenia. I'll try to be as consistent in terminology as possible. I hope I can use it right. And if I'm talking about how to regulate this area, it seems very important to me how we define this field. For me, there's the wrong article two at the starting point. And given how we define Article 2, then we follow the whole definition and consequently the individual arrangements below the law. Because the key dilemma that appears to me here is to write down in Article 2 the definition of medicine, so it is an activity carried out by healers to improve the health and quality of life of service users. Of course, this does not allow us to interfere with the treatment field. At least that's how I understand it. And of course, if we do not interfere with the treatment field, then it is also understandable to me how you prepare proposals for legislation at the Ministry of Health below, as this definition also results from the Law on Medical Services, which completely delimits this field. As you speak in Article 4, your doctor should not use medicinal products. Of course, Dr. Marusich, I can agree with you that when you enrolled in medical school, you studied medicine, but I would also quote you a fact that comes from your medical species that deals with the various medical systems that exist today in the world. And you know there are different systems in the world. In the case of mobility, in the case of logistics that exists today, of course in Slovenia we have to ask ourselves whether we want to face different systems or whether we exist within one system. This is a question for me, because if I lived in China, Dr. Marusich, maybe I'd study a different medicine. But would you be a smaller expert for that? Would you therefore have treatment methods that you might not be able to complement today with the knowledge that you receive with an accepted degree, say the Faculty of Medicine in Ljubljana, and then you can upgrade it? This is exactly now this fundamental question. I speak as a layman, but as someone who will be able to choose with all my behavior in the morning if I get the relevant information, the appropriate form of treatment. Surprisingly, I have also heard from various debaters today that it makes sense to reach out in such a hard way. I will also quote the opinion adopted by the Health Council of the Ministry of Health in 1998. This statement is also very interesting, which speaks about this, I will not quote everything, talk about the irregularity of this situation, and in this part of the statement we can also look at the following: 'The state must prevent,' do not harmonise, regulate, however, 'the state must prevent the operation of self-proclaimed healers, charlatans'. Of course, here I am going to discuss with you, Mr Secretary of State, whether medicine is a valid term that you are using here. Because, through the justification of this term, we can also come to the conclusion through a dictionary of the Slovenian language that a healer is someone who performs for a person who is healthy but who does not have a suitable professional education. This means that by the name of the proposers you are somehow suggesting that it is something less valuable, something that needs to be prevented in the opinion of the health council. And when I ask myself here why this attitude is, because we have a situation where we regulate the relationship between someone who is looking for a health service, we are patients, users and someone who offers this health service. I wonder what the user wants me to get? I want to get a comprehensive offer, i.e. the best possible offer to solve my particular problem, whether I'm talking about treatment, whether I'm talking about diagnostics, or whether I'm talking about rehabilitation. So we cover as wide a spectrum as possible. And, of course, when I also read here this matter that we are talking about the increasing popularity of various medical practices, people are subject not only to gullible naiveness, but also to intelligent and educated people. So, the health world's opinion, not just the naive, educated people. I was at an interesting event yesterday. It was a lecture on therapeutic fasting, it was a medical justification for food poisoning, a lecture by Dr Andreas Buchinger, a doctor of medicine internist, is the head of the medical programme of the medical department at Dr. Otto Buchinger Clinic in Bad Pyrmont, Germany. Look at the interesting! There we found ourselves, my trifle, as well as a distinguished European Member, Mr Peterle, someone who organised a very broad support in the European Parliament for the United Against Cancer, and not telling me how naive the people who came to this room were full of people who could listen to the lecture of someone who had a medical education at the beginning, that is, a doctor of medicine internist. But a lecture on the medical validity of food poisoning. And of course, now I ask you, proponents, paragraph 5 of the Medical Service Act says, "The doctor must not carry out medical activities." This means that all the people who came there yesterday are allowed naive, let us also allow people who are misled, and have some salt in their heads, so they are not actually justified in having such an expert at home. Because someone who has an education and a degree in medical school is not going to be able to upgrade their knowledge with something that can be justified. And this clinic in Germany has existed since 1920. Of course, there are now these dilemmas, Mr Secretary of State, when you talk about the fact that the groundwork of the gap is between official medicine and a fully open field, and I am talking about that we can find different health systems in the world. Look, I don't believe that Article 4 properly records what you want to cover with this law. And I do not believe that by establishing a chamber which must be established within three months, you will cover what the Ministry has not done so far, that is, analyses and assessments of the situation in this area. How will you set up a chamber? How will you set up a chamber if you were unable to arrange inventory in this area? How? Who will recognize himself within the framework of this law or who will not be recognized under this law, where in Article 4, you speak about traditional Chinese medicine, ajurves, homeopathy and other medicinal products, and on this basis you also carry out medical methods. How? Will this chamber be legitimate? Will everyone know each other? And if you don't have this record at the Ministry right now, because you're calling a meeting of this chamber, I'm asking myself about the credulity of those who think today that the establishment of this chamber will be very simple and that you'll do whatever it takes to get to this chamber. Of course, I would also comment on the opinion of the provider of these services, who said that, of course, they could not fully participate in the public debate or that certain content covered by this law was not even on the table within the working group. So, we have official records of these forms of associations that say that certain solutions that are crucial to the law today have not been at all on the table and have not been discussed. And, of course, here is a basic starting point for me, which, according to my conduct, is wrong. If, Mr Minister, it is about protecting money in the healthcare system, and you are making a strict commitment only to the existing health system within the framework of official medicine, then this must be said. I can understand that this is also an argument that, of course, you have a scrotum that is as heavy as it is, and, of course, those who are paid from all over the system today, with all the arguments, are striving to ensure that there is no possible division of this bag. I can understand that, too. But you, as the Ministry, must, of course, put yourself in a position to defend the following claims. Thus, the right to health and health insurance is a fundamental human right, so it is a person whose system serves only to exercise this fundamental right. And this fundamental right must be the union of all the behavior that exists in the field of health knowledge today, different systems exist, and here is your role in regulating it. And I think that's what you regulate poorly in this law. And because you know that you regulate this poorly, you take care of it at the chamber. The Chamber, which will now suddenly arrange, register, sign up, in a moment no more lubrication, repent and settle these matters, instead of you. I think you're growing illusions and, of course, on the other hand, you're experiencing the trenches. What it is to understand today is the written declaration in Del that those who perform, offer these services will go underground. There's no way out in three months. And, of course, I cannot share the illusion that today, in a defence of this illusion, the Members of the ruling coalition speak in order to bring about the changes that we will introduce and thus regulate the content of this law. Practice suggests otherwise. I do not expect, except in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, if anything is to be regulated from a legal point of view, any conceptual, substantive change by the ruling coalition. And all the comments that we are making here today, all the interested public who are talking about it, of course, will not be heard. For if they had been heard, then the law would have been prepared in a different way. And, of course, here is my dilemma, which is crucial at the starting point. Do we allow this system to come to the treatment field? The law is written in such a way that it doesn't. And the following laws that will be followed and prepared by the Ministry only confirm this. And of course, if a different approach can be taken here at this point, then the content of this law will also be completely different. I will not repeat the fact that we are going as unikam in contrast to, say, the World Health Organisation guidelines, the European Union resolutions that speak of making an effort and adopting, after the broadest possible professional debate, all that is offered to protect the one who uses this service, in order to regulate a more transparent and regulated and understandable system and, in practice, a viable system. Finally, I would like to comment on just one more fact that is very strange for me and it will be very interesting to hear how we will be able to interpret it, say, in the international public. Traditional Chinese medicine, I think you're going to attract me here, that for centuries it's officially adopted this term, and this deadline has also been implemented by the World Health Organization, so it's traditional Chinese medicine. Look at what we're willing to do to get into the law, unless we're thinking of something completely different, that it's traditional Chinese medicine. Of course, I would like to hear someone in Slovenia who will explain to the billions and 300 million Chinese people that for us medicine is the same as traditional Chinese medicine, whether it will be that we do not know what we are talking about, or whether we will explain how we uniquely understand what they are doing in their health system, which is different from ours for centuries and centuries. And in the end, I would just end it. Doctors today make the so-called promise of Hippocrates' oath. This Hippocratic oath has a long beard, since Hippocrates lived from 462 to 377 B.C.E. I don't think there was any science-based medicine back then, but it was worth it. And through development you can find that a lot has happened and understanding this Hippocrates oath, allowing myself to view it as a layman, means all actions to help someone maintain, strengthen health or that this health is restored. And that is why, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, I do not believe, under all these dilemmas, that this text of the law can be upgraded by amendments so that we can respond to this dilemma. If we cannot respond to this dilemma, then by confirming this law today in this House, we say that this is not a dilemma, we agree that the divide is sharp and at the same time we tell the general public that those who are looking for the best possible solutions on the market for strengthening, maintaining and achieving their health will not be able to achieve this in an corrective way. I think it's a key dilemma here. Of course you'll say "out of pocket" so pay out of your pocket what will be separated from official medicine. And just what is true today in order to make a step closer to each other will still not be possible today. Therefore, you are also laying all this content on the basis of economic activity. I still propose, colleagues and colleagues, that the rejection of this law would mean reconsidering these arguments, putting the grounds, the objectives of this law on a different basis and then having the possibility of adopting a law that will actually regulate this area. Otherwise, with my best wishes, I do not think that this objective will be able to be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u109	In this way, the list of reported discussers is exhausted. I give the floor to the proposer. Here you are, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since I was almost challenged, I would only replicate briefly and add something else. Yeah, it's true. When I graduated from medical school, I obtained a degree in medicine in the former state of Yugoslavia. If I want to do this activity elsewhere, I should follow official procedures. I'm sure they're known to you as, uh, Chairman of the Health Committee, just regulatory. In the European space, recognition has been achieved, and with Slovenia's entry into the European Union, I have expanded my operating space, but I apologize for not knowing if I should be doing this activity in China as well. That's where my ambitions didn't go. It should be asked, but it is likely that China and other countries have put in place a certain regulation of the skills required so that the doctor can carry out this activity in their country. That's how the states do it. After the break-up of Yugoslavia, those doctors who later gained knowledge at the medical school must seek a certain procedure to do so in the Slovenian health system or later in the European space. The European Union was aware of the importance of the profession of physicians, doctors, dentists, dentists and the setting of regulations, mutual recognition. And she was aware of the importance of medicine, which is an open knowledge, and here we differ in views. In fact, medicine has evolved through some of the expertise in the past, we have been speaking for centuries, and I will not go into the field of other recognized experts, Galileo and similar, who have plowed the ice in this area, but in fact not in health, but in another. But it has actually been artificially complementary and has become a scientific science and method that incorporates into its system when it is verifiable and repetitive and improves health. We also have a process in Slovenia. And when such a method is recognised, it is also classified where you want it, i.e. in a basket of compulsory or voluntary health insurance in the entire right from a health address. And so not long ago, acupuncture was recognized, the hypnotherapy that you mentioned earlier and some others that could be proposed by any nationals and nationals of this country went through the protocol, was recognised as a method of treatment and was placed. And here we are open. Whenever this happens, it can also be placed in the health system. And by establishing this law, we're setting up an area of medicine. And here we are slightly different in terms. We believe that, with a transitional period until the Medical Chamber is established, the Ministry, with its activities, will allow a list of medical methods and systems to be established by means of a sub-legislative act. Open, therefore, by means of their approaches, behaviour, knowledge and the like, they will set up a list of those medical systems, methods that can be used in the field of medicine. If one of these methods is proven to improve the treated and can go through the abandoned methods of technology recognition in Slovenia and probably also in the European space, it will then go through an appropriate protocol and will be placed in a health system in Slovenia coordinated by doctors and doctors, dentists and dentists and then incorporated into this system. However, the Law on Medical Services regulates this as well as so far that doctors and doctors must, of course, act according to the doctrine. Unless they operate according to the doctrine or use those methods that are not recognised as methods that are applicable in the field of medicine, of course they remain under the licence, they remain graduate or medical doctors and, of course, they can operate in other areas, or they can operate in the field of medicine, provided they acquire appropriate knowledge, behaviour and then act as healers, or they will operate in the healthcare system in other positions offered by the system. In short, it would be difficult to say that we are setting such a separation that there is no possible transition - it is, but there must be certain rules involved. In the field of medicine, these principles of determination can be very open, that virtually every method of treatment in the world in Slovenia will be recognised as such and will be placed through a sub-legal act and later in the Medical Chamber as such, so that it can be implemented and implemented in this area. In short, we wanted to maintain the current establishment of the health system in Slovenia, where we know who is the operator of the activity, and, on the other hand, to set up an area of treatment that is likely to be complemented by all medical systems at the time, methods that are recognised, as long as some are recognized as valid treatment methods according to the principles applicable in the field of medicine, can be placed in the system as well as until now. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u111	Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Check-in is on. Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u113	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, colleagues, proposalants! Of course, we are ahead of an interesting topic, and the simplest area is also to attack to criticise. And there is no doubt that much to be said for this area, but on the one hand, I regard it as positive and courageous that all of us, together, in Slovenia, exist, once and without a doubt at the end of this debate, regardless of the outcome of the vote, all of us knew something more about it and had some opportunity to look for better and better solutions. When I began to study veterinary medicine there was one of the basic principles, they said, "Primune non-nighter." That's what you say. First of all, don't hurt yourself. Of course, in Slovenia we could also record some examples of those who, at the end of failing therapies, such or other, have come to the point that this treatment did not benefit them, but from us, not politicians, on the part of all citizens who place health as a value purely on the spot at the top of the value scale, it is further to think about who and in what hands will we put this health in a different way. This parallel, not medicine, if we can say, medicine, although it seems to me that the term could be different, is exploiting some of the weaknesses and some of the problems it obviously has in this country - and not only in this country, but also in many ways - current medicine and current health care. Of course, they're good with one big claim that says, according to our own, "the doctor heals, nature greets." Of course, this human body has a fantastic potential for autoregeneration, as well as self-healing and many things that official medicine does not cure or have no chance to heal, is attributed as a positive result to medicine. The thought of treating a cold with the help of a doctor for one week is well known, if we treat it alone or if we say that we are our own healer, this matter lasts seven days. The result in the end is the same in both cases. Nevertheless, I think that the area should be regulated to some extent. If, of course, 10 years ago you asked me about this subject, then you'd just swing your hand and tell me what it's gonna be. Today, however, I must say that I have met people in my life who I believe have been helped in some way or other by the cure. If not, they gave them at least moral, psychological support, took the healers time for them, were commissioned, paid their service, the healer had endless good will, endless time, and was willing to reorder them. Of course, most of them, not all of them, were willing to charge them. I have a positive experience especially with those, and I know quite a few of them, which for their work and activity do not take away either the euro or hundreds, but people at times of distress and difficulties undoubtedly offer assistance and support. And if we find a solution in this direction, then we have certainly done something good. But it is always and every time such a discussion one big yellow card, even in the first place, because we are in Slovenia, for Slovenian health care [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] So let's think about opening up the space and talking about what to do and what to give people, so that they will be more satisfied with that official health care, that they will have more time, more attention and more care, and then maybe a cure, which, of course, we also have to arrange - and I would like to commend you for doing this - to the cure less time. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, which is in half an hour. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u116	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing the meeting of the choir. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting apparatus. We continue to break the 7th item of the agenda - this is a second consideration of the proposal of the law on casual coins. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the SNS Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 53 Members present and 10 votes in favour against 38. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the SNS Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 15 votes against 41. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment of the SNS Group to Article 4. We're voting. 62 Members and Members were present, with 10 votes against 44 for them. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the fourth amendment of the SNS Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, who were voted in favour of 15 votes against 42. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 12. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 42. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. As no amendment would be adopted to the amended bill, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, will vote on the draft law on Friday, 1 June 2007, after the final vote. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on Mandatory Insurance in Transport - following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments were not tabled in the second reading, amendments cannot be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. 68 Members and Members voted in favour, 62 votes against 3. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[The opposition was voted on 3.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. With regard to paragraph 4 of the agenda, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the vote on the Proposal for a Law on consumer protection against unfair business practices will take place tomorrow, Thursday, 31 May 2007, in the framework of the votes. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Medicine. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a medical law - the first reading - is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. 69 Members and Members voted in favour, 41 votes against 25. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Health Committee as a working parent for a second reading. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Constitutional Court. On Tuesday 29 May 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, no third reading amendments can be tabled. As the draft law is not harmonised due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the Government has tabled the harmonisation amendment you received on the bench. With regard to the harmonisation of the law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government on the basis of Rule 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! The Government proposes a harmonisation amendment mainly of a technical nature relating to the 30th Article of the draft law which has been amended at the home labour body. It is necessary to correct the introductory wording of Article 30, which must apply to three articles rather than to two articles, and the misrepresentation in Article 55, paragraph 2, of the draft law. Article 30 of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitutional Court Act is amended as follows: "A new 55.a, 55.b and 55.c., which reads: " In the second paragraph of Article 55.c, the text of Article 55.a shall be replaced by the text of Article 55.b. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Do Members and Members want the word? Report pending, five minutes of discussion on an individual. Mr. Anton Kokalj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u119	Mr President, can I discuss the explanation of the vote on the law or just the amendment? Only about the amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u120	I'm sorry, just about the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u121	Then I'll explain my voice. Thanks. I quit.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u122	Mr. Only Bevk has the word. [[No, no, ……]] Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 30. We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted for 57 against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. The application for the views of the members of the groups shall be pending. Mr. Anton Kokalj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u123	I wouldn't do it on behalf of the Member of Parliament, then I would do it on my own behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your comprehensive comment. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that. Therefore, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I will say our position. We will support this law, although I must point out that we are not entirely satisfied with it. However, we believe that, to a certain extent, it will fix the weaknesses that have now been burdened by inappropriate law, in particular, by the Constitutional Court only directly. We believe or fear that this law, however, has been under-examined, both professionally and perhaps underlyingly, and not entirely and completely built up as it should have been. We are also afraid that the number of our citizens who will be sent to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg will increase because of these changes, although the purpose was different. In fact, I have not convinced myself that this amendment to the Law under Protocol 14 to the European Convention on Human Rights, although this Protocol has not yet been ratified by the Russian Federation, this ratification has been promised so far, and therefore this Protocol has not yet entered into force, but its purpose has already been to seek appropriate medicines in the Member States of the Council of Europe to limit the number of complaints before the European Court of Human Rights by the citizens of the Member States of the Council of Europe. So I fear that this law will not bring about those goals and considerations that we wanted to achieve with this. But our Group of Members will support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u126	Thank you, Mrs Lovtišar - on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. I'm reopening the application. Mr. Mark Pavlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll support the law myself. Again, I would like to point out that this is a treatment for serious toothache with aspirin instead of a major intervention in gum disease, which is what the President of the Constitutional Court himself points out. But it's the following areas. Firstly, it is necessary to abolish some of the powers of the Court itself, which literally instil into the sky and which other countries do not know, such as the decision-making of disputes within the competences between local communities and state authorities, or between local communities themselves, or between courts and state authorities. Secondly, the Constitutional Court should have more discretion in assessing whether a specific constitutional initiative or constitutional complaint should be brought to justice. Thirdly, which is also very important, a two-thirds majority should be prescribed for amendments to such legislation and also for the adoption of other laws giving additional powers to the Constitutional Court. Let me mention, say, just the law on local self-government. I also believe that the way of appointing or electing Constitutional Judges, which is quite controversial and quite unique in comparison with other countries, should be changed. However, consideration would also be given to whether the existing number of constitutional judges is responsible and, of course, whether the mandate prescribed is also responsible. As I say, I will support the marriage because it is a step forward. I hope and I believe that it will contribute to reducing the judicial backlog on this, we can say, the fourth summit of power. But again, I urge the Minister to consider what I have suggested to him during the general discussion, to organise an international consultation, where we will talk slowly and carefully about possible constitutional changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u128	Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will not support the bill itself, because I am convinced that the law, as proposed, restricts access to the Constitutional Court, to constitutional judgement and to constitutional categorisation of people, or if you want, in pronunciations, to "ordinary people, ordinary citizens of the Republic of Slovenia". That is why I will strongly oppose the law as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u130	Anton Kokalj has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Although I support the intention of the law and the key substantive proposals, but in view of the amendment tabled and the debate on this amendment, and also at the decision of the committee which did not support the amendment, I must explain my voice that I cannot support the law, because I believe that the law strengthens the possibilities for resolving the problems of illegality and non-constitutional action at the local level; as Article 24 sets a deadline for the submission of an initiative, which will effectively limit the possibility of initiating a procedure to assess constitutionality or legality. However, if the applicants had been required, as proposed by the amendment, by a third of the saints, then they would not have been tied to the deadline and could have resolved the problem even after the expiry of one year, i.e. in my opinion that, in essence, the law on the issue of non-constitutional and illegal work at the local level, which is becoming increasingly problematic, the situation is deteriorating and diminishing legal certainty. I believe that the Constitutional Court does not have to solve excessive cases in the first place, but, above all, to ensure greater legal certainty where it occurs. The practice so far has shown that constitutionality and legality have been most frequently violated among the general acts of local communities. That's why I can't support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u132	Thank you very much. We're voting. There were 68 votes in favour and 58 against 3. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 5th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment and Work of Foreigners. On Tuesday 29 May 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, amendments cannot be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, to a decision on a proposal for a law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There were 64 votes in favour and 57 against 1. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 6th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation. On Tuesday 29 May 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, no third reading amendments can be tabled. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. Check-in is on. Positions of the parliamentary groups. You're giving up. No one else is reported. I repeat my application. Check-in is on. Mr. Mag. Petty Officer, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. No, in my own name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u133	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to explain my vote on the adoption of this law. I will be happy if the law contributes to actually contributing to the better performance of the study. We know this that student diet can affect the health of young people and also the success of studies. I will also be happy if student nutrition is regulated mainly at universities and universities, not as it has been so far that students eat food at restaurants and so on. I will also be happy if we prevent the various profits of intermediaries, what has been said many times. I will also be happy, in particular, if there can be more students who are eligible for this student diet than now, i.e. data show 25% use. I will be happy if, in particular, those low-income students benefit from this, and of course, I will be happy if the electronic business we talked about is regulated before 2010, which is why much less time is needed. We, as the National Assembly, must act responsibly towards the young generation, this is our future, and therefore it is certainly not possible to place responsibility on another organisation. In this regard, I have tabled amendments - they have not been accepted. As long as what I've said before comes true, then it'll be good, or it'll be a lost opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u134	We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 70 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 28th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Goodbye.
