ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please calm down and take your seats. I'm also asking the ministers. Once again, fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 29th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the first paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Marjetka Uhan, Roberto Battelli, Bojan Homan, Vasja Klavora, Marko Pavliha, Marijan Pojbič, Miran Potrč and Mr Cyril Testen from 17:00 p.m. I invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, Minister of Finance, Dr Andrei Bajuk, and other members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 29th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 4 October 2007. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of items from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda, so we are moving on to the agenda. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. I therefore propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference to the meeting. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 29th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Presentation of the 2008 budget memorandum for the years 2008 and 2009 and the proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2008 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2009. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Squeakle? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. In accordance with the Public Finance Act and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the presentation of the 2008 and 2009 budget memorandum is to be heard today and, I stress, also the 2009 state budget proposal. But there is a serious embarrassment. The problem is related to the issue of financing landscapes, the allocation of funds for financing landscapes from the state budget, as foreseen in the second reading this week by the Law on the Financing of Landscapes. Where's the coalition, the National Choir "climbing"? First of all, the Government in the budget memorandum to be presented today does not show the budgets of the municipalities, as opposed to the presentation of the budgets of the municipalities. Does he not believe that the National Assembly will adopt these laws? [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u3	Mr. Squeakle, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u4	I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u5	Have you proposed the withdrawal of the agenda item? [[...]] I didn't get your proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u6	No, no, no. Mr President, we cannot withdraw the agenda item, but allow me to explain the procedural proposal to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u7	No, no, no. This can't be a procedural proposal and please [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u8	We want Mr President to comply with [[...]] [[End of discussion warning signal, turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u9	Mr. Squeakle, well-known procedures. You have been a member of the National Assembly for some time now, but with such excesses you do not seek media popularity. We are moving to the first part of the consideration and adoption of the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and to the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009 in the National Assembly. Under the third paragraph of Article 156 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance will present a budgetary memorandum, a draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and a draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009. There is no debate on this presentation. Mr. Bevk, can I help you? You have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. In the Group of Social Democrats - I speak as a deputy leader, because there is no colleague Potrča - we agreed that we will have a procedural proposal today, so I have a procedural proposal to allow a colleague of mags. Milan M. Squeakl, our procedural proposal goes all the way. This was an agreement in the parliamentary group, and in the end he also had a proposal in addition to the explanation of the proposal. And please, Mr President, allow what the Rules of Procedure allow and allow us to present a procedural proposal on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u11	Mr Bevk - again, proposals for an extension or withdrawal of the agenda shall be tabled 24 hours before the beginning of the meeting of the National Assembly. There is no debate on today's topic, there is no debate, there is nothing but a presentation of the budget and a presentation by the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance. I'm asking the National Assembly, can we have them explain this famous procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u12	Thank you very much to the National Assembly for allowing me to make a procedural proposal. We therefore have a proposal for a state budget, which foresees that in 2009, all 1,171 million corporate income tax will go to the state budget so that all 1,153 million excise duties will go to the state budget. However, in the second reading of the Law on the Financing of Landscapes, which provides that at least 250 million taxes on profits will go to the provinces and at least about 100 to 150 million excise duties will go to the provinces. In the second reading, the Law on the Financing of Landscapes in Transitional Provisions is closed. Therefore, today the Government cannot present a proposal for a 2009 state budget if we have two contradictory documents in the National Assembly. And our procedural proposal is that, in view of what happened this week in the second reading on the working body, it is said that the Legislative and Legal Service, in accordance with Article 66, paragraph 5, gives a legal opinion on how to proceed with the treatment, whether a debate on the 2009 proposal for the State budget can be started here today, while continuing reading the Law on the Financing of the Regions, or if something simply needs to be stopped. However, we cannot in the National Assembly, which received two different proposals from the Government, after one country in 2009, receive a billion 150 million corporate income tax and, secondly, 250 million of this should be given to the provinces, here to arbitrate between the various proposals of the Government, the amendments to the draft budget in a way that would take 250 million, and there is no way to do it because only the expenditure side of the budget is being amended. I would therefore suggest, President, that the Rule of Law Office should state what we will be able to conclude today at the end of the presentation as a decision of the National Assembly. I think it is necessary to stop at least the procedure for adopting the draft budget for 2009 until the adoption of the Law on the Financing of Landscapes and Other Laws, otherwise we may establish the provinces, but they will not give them money. The government says we are supposed to do this by amending the 2009 budget in 2008, but in 2008, we are holding the first half of the year, and in the second half of the year, there are elections and only the next government can do it with a rebalance, and the provinces are supposed to start working, so you say, and you don't give them money.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u13	Well, once again evidence of a serious abuse of the rules of procedure, Mr. Squeakl. There is no discussion of the budget yet, and even the budget presented has not yet been presented in the National Assembly. Today we will not discuss nor decide on any decision and allow the Government to present the budget, perhaps even to present the questions raised in advance, certainly starting with the presentation of the budgets in the National Assembly. We are far from having a debate on the budget of the National Assembly. I now ask the President of the Government to present this budget document after these complications. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the National Assembly for consideration and adoption proposes a proposal for amending the budget for the following year and a draft budget for 2009. The 2008 and 2009 budgetary memorandum fully summarises the definitions of June 2005 of the adopted strategy for the development of Slovenia. At the same time, it sets out the main orientations of the Government in the management of public finances and the management of economic policy and thus in the development of Slovenia. Allow me to answer this dilemma, which was set up today at the beginning of this meeting as procedural and which has been established before, before, before I go into more detail. However, this dilemma can only be addressed within the framework of the legal order that exists in that country, which provides that the Government cannot propose in the financing budget on the basis of laws that have not yet been adopted. Therefore, the Government was technically unable to submit a 2009 budget, assuming that Slovenia will be divided into provinces as of 1 January 2009 and that these provinces will be financed in accordance with the legislation you are currently considering. The government does not know what the final outcome of the adoption of provincial legislation will be, because it is within your jurisdiction, and the government has therefore not been able to plan this step. It will do so as soon as the National Assembly adopts a package of provincial legislation and when the situation is clear. Any time after that, we can do it. This will be a simple step because the Government has recently adopted a decision following thorough analyses of how much resources and how much personnel are transferred from the state budget and from the state administration to the provincial level by implementing the provinces. No problem will translate this substantive decision into a budget rebalancing. However, until the legislation is adopted, there is no legal basis; all those sitting in this National Assembly know this. Asking the government to do what is legally impossible is legitimate, but it's not smart. The MP said something had to be stopped. I note that he and his client have stepped up efforts to regionalise Slovenia in recent weeks, despite speaking differently, and I suggest that this work ceases and that we all take the business seriously. Otherwise, the preparation of the budgetary documents you have before you has been marked by the fact that the Government has so far adopted most of the concrete measures envisaged for social and economic reforms. The measures already adopted are largely producing good results that make Slovenia much closer to achieving the economic, social and intergenerational development goals and the development goal of Slovenia in the international environment. In other words, with the rapid economic development that we are witnessing, we will, according to Eurostat's 2007 forecasts, reach 91% of the EU's GDP at the end of this year, or around 22,300 euros per capita, measured by purchasing power. On the screens, you have a graph showing these trends, and we see that Slovenia is accelerating to reach the EU average of development. During this time the quality of life has improved and the well-being of most people has increased, Slovenia is more recognizable than ever before. Despite the very good economic results and positive visibility of Slovenia in the wider international environment, there is still much work to be done to keep current positive trends and ensure permanent conditions for the creation of prosperity. The composition of the State budget is one of the most important mechanisms available to implement successful economic and development policies. Slovenia has already adopted certain measures in the past that have created the appropriate conditions for faster economic development, such as the introduction of value added tax in 1999, the takeover of the European Central Bank monetary policy framework in 2001, Slovenia's entry as full-fledged members into the European Union in May 2004 and some others. We have reached last year to meet the Maastricht conditions for taking over the euro as our own currency. We have entered the European Monetary Union as the only new member of the European Union. At the same time as we took the euro as we took the biggest step in terms of economic integration into the European Union, the tax reform, which, on the one hand, has significantly burdened the economy and, on the other, reduced the revenue in the budget, has also entered into force. Dear Members and honourable Members! Also this year's presentation of the budget, I will build on the comparison of Slovenia with the environment, in which, according to the principles of free movement of labour, capital, knowledge and people, Slovenia is increasingly successful. The comparisons below show that Slovenia can really be proud of what has been achieved and that optimism can also lead us to the future. Today, Slovenia is one of the fastest developing countries of the European Union and also the European Monetary Union, according to most indicators. Following the 2005 and 2006 developmental successful years, Slovenia further accelerated economic development on the basis of reforms implemented in 2007. As I said in the introduction, according to Eurostat's latest figures for 2007, Slovenia's gross domestic product rating is 91% of the European Union's gross domestic product and 22 000 300 euros per capita. When we are doing a comparison between the countries of the European Union and the European Monetary Union, we see that the difference in gross domestic product by purchasing power per capita between Ireland and France is greater than the difference between France and Slovenia. Slovenia is leading with such a result between the new Member States and also exceeds some of the old Member States of the Union. After reaching 4.1% of economic growth in 2005, we reached 5.7% of economic growth in 2006 and 6.5% in the first half of the year. In 2006, economic growth was 2.7 percentage points higher than the European Union average. Compared to the countries of the European Monetary Union, only two countries were better after economic growth, namely Ireland and Luxembourg. It is very important that economic growth has been healthy all these years, even this year these trends continue. Even in the first half of 2007, the most important factors for economic growth were exports of goods and services and gross investment in fixed assets. Slovenia has significantly increased exports as a percentage of gross domestic product in recent years, particularly in the last two years. Slovenia has a significantly higher share of exports in gross domestic product compared to the average of the European Union countries and the average of the European Monetary Union. The openness of the Slovenian economy is increasing rapidly. In the European Union, with higher exports as a percentage of GDP, only two countries had a higher real growth in exports from Slovenia in 2006. However, when we compare Slovenia with the countries of the European Monetary Union, we see that Slovenia is second in real economic growth. While we have had healthy economic growth, which will contribute to economic activity in Slovenia in the coming years, other economic indicators are also very good. Industrial production growth in the first half of this year was 8.4%. At the same time, it is worth saying that the growth in industrial production of processing activities was almost 10%. Real value added growth in Slovenia was 6.8% in the first half of this year and labour productivity growth was 3.4% higher in the first half of this year compared to the same period last year. After a negative trend, productivity growth gained a positive sign once again. In 2006, Slovenia had almost three times more productivity growth than the average of the Member States of the European Union, among the countries of the European Monetary Union, the real euro area, and Slovenia had the highest such growth. As planned, high economic growth has contributed to higher employment. According to an internationally comparable methodology, in the second quarter of 2007 in Slovenia, 944 thousand 700 labourers were far from the largest number in the last period. The employment rate per national account was 68.3%. The number of registered unemployed is the lowest since 1991. According to the methodology of the International Labour Organisation, unemployment was only 4.6% in the second quarter of this year. Because of this basis, we can also view economic activity with optimism in the future. The growth assessment was corrected by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development in the 2007 autumn report on the basis of significantly better results than forecasted at 5.8% in the first half of the year, and the Office estimated growth at 4.6% for 2008 and 4.1% for 2009. The growth in exports of goods and services, which has been among the most important drivers of economic growth in recent years, is estimated at 13.4% in 2007, 10.3% in the following year and 9.7% in 2009. Employment growth is estimated at 2.3% this year, 0.9% next year and 0.6% for 2009. The increase in wages is projected to be higher in the coming years due to accelerated economic activity than it has been in recent years. After the autumn forecast in Slovenia we will already record 2.4% real gross wage growth in 2007, in 2008 3.7% and in 2009 2.8%. The economic and social situation has been much closer to the situation in the developed countries of the European Union, given macroeconomic and public financial indicators in recent years. Sometimes we're better. According to the forecasts just presented, Slovenia will also be the most successful new member of the European Union in the coming years. The only macroeconomic data that deteriorated after the euro was taken over is inflation. After meeting the so-called Maastricht criteria continuously since November 2005, we exceeded it for the first time in July of this year. Average inflation is estimated at 3.4 percentage points for 2007 at 3.5 for 2008 and 2.9 for 2009, annual inflation for 2007 at 4.3, 2.9 for 2008 and 2.7 percent for 2009. The government, however, prepared a draft amending budget for 2008 and a draft budget for the year after, for 2009 so that inflation should return to the expected framework earlier. At present, the main concern is the promotion of basic living needs. Many are unjustifiable, but they are making living standards worse, especially for the most endangered population. The government, which has already led economic policies to sustain price growth, will further strengthen the anti-inflation measures, which are also reflected in the 2008 draft amending budget and the 2009 draft budget, in the future. We are significantly reducing the budget deficit, fiscal policy will be countercyclical in the coming years. Regulated inflation-free prices will be monitored even more effectively in the future. The increase in wages that the Government can influence - the part that the government can influence - will be in a moderate macroeconomic context. However, the risks and factors of higher inflation remain largely due to developments in global markets where demand has increased significantly over the past period. It is possible to raise food prices and oil prices above the forecast; unfortunately, this is already happening. Above all, rising oil prices have a higher impact on inflation in Slovenia than in the larger countries of the European Union. The government will certainly do its job to reduce inflation and we will have to pay attention to the unjustifiable rise in the prices of traders and consumers themselves and over-emphasized products simply to reject. We will continue to support non-governmental consumer protection organisations. We expect the Office of Competition Protection to prevent possible agreements between traders and to ensure that the offer is highly competitive. Dear Members and honourable Members! The proposal for amending the budget for 2008 and the draft budget for 2009 are both ahead of you, cost-effective and development-oriented, including all possible budgetary measures to achieve the objectives of a more flexible and competitive economy, higher economic growth, higher employment, knowledge-based economic and social development, the effectiveness of the social state and the consistent sustainable development of all regions in Slovenia. The proposal for amending the 2008 budget envisions €8.6 billion of revenue, which is 24% of gross domestic product, and €8.9 billion of expenditure, or 24.6% of GDP. The 2008 budget deficit of the Republic of Slovenia is estimated at EUR 230 million and 0.6% of gross domestic product. In this regard, according to the current estimates of the state budget's revenues for this year will amount to 23.6% of GDP and budget expenditure will be realised at 24% of gross domestic product, with a budget deficit of only around 125 million euros or only 0.4% of GDP. You may recall that at the time of the adoption of the state budget for this year we have foreseen a budget deficit of 1% of GDP, it is estimated that it will be more than half the lower. For 2009, the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia foresees €9 billion in revenue, which is 23.4% of GDP, and €9.1 billion in expenditure, or 23.7% of GDP. The 2009 budget deficit of the Republic of Slovenia is projected at EUR 125 million, or only 0.3% of GDP. The projected 2009 budget revenue is falling by 0.6% compared to the 2008 budget proposal, while the budget expenditure is falling by 1%. According to the 2009 draft budget, the projected budget deficit is still half of the projected deficit for the coming year. The consolidated balance sheet of four public finances according to the national methodology in addition to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia also covers the balance sheet of pension and disability insurance, the Institute for Health Insurance and the balance sheet of the budgets of Slovenian municipalities. According to the proposal for amending the budget, consolidated government revenue for 2008 is projected at a total of €15.2 billion, or 42.2% of GDP, while consolidated government expenditure is projected at €15.4 billion, or 42.8% of GDP. The consolidated public deficit is thus planned at 0.6% of GDP for 2008. According to the 2009 draft budget, only 0.3% of the GDP point is foreseen for the consolidation of the public financial deficit. The proposal for amending the budget for 2008 and the draft budget for 2009 by national accounts provides for a flat-rate pension and disability insurance. Despite the real increase in pensions in the last year, when we began to reconcile them with salaries, we note a decrease in the expenditure of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance since this share fell for the first time last year below 13% of gross domestic product. So much in response to those predictions, there were many who predicted the break of the pension register. In 2008 and 2009, the Health Insurance and Slovenian municipalities will also be balanced and the net position of the Slovenian budget vis-à-vis the European Union budget will be positive in terms of 0.43% of the gross domestic product. And this share does not include inflows from the European Union budget directly to the final beneficiaries in Slovenia, so that the net situation is actually better. Dear Members and honourable Members! The European Commission for Public Finance has also established its European methodology for national accounts, i.e. ESA-95, which also covers all public funds, public agencies, public institutions - compensation and pension companies - in our case. I would also like to briefly present the proposal for amending the budget for 2008 and the 2009 budget proposal with the figures relevant to the performance assessment or the assessment of the fulfilment of the commitments we have within the European Stability and Growth Pact. Last but not least, at the end of September, the revised data from the statistical office amounted to €13.4 billion or 44.1% of GDP in 2006 and the total expenditure of the state sector amounted to €13.8 billion or €45.3% in 2006. According to these revised data, the deficit in the country sector amounted to EUR 366 million in 2006 or EUR 1.2 per cent of GDP in 2006. Implementation estimates for 2007 show that this year the country's total income under this methodology will be around €14.3 billion or 43% of GDP, while the country's sector expenditure will be around €14.5 billion or €43.6 per cent of GDP. The deficit of the state sector under this methodology, and this is one of the four Maastricht criteria, will be realised in this year at a rate of 0.6% of GDP. In addition, last December's Stability Programme, which was submitted by the Government to the European Commission, which was assessed as sober and realistic, saw for 2007 a government deficit of 1.6 per cent of GDP. The actual deficit will be one percentage point lower or only 0.6 percentage points lower. I don't think there's any other country within the EU that would make that much better. Estimates of the country's overall income and expenditure according to the 2008 ESA-95 methodology, based on the draft amending budget for the following year, show that the total revenue of the country's sector will reach around 42.2% of GDP in 2008 and the consolidated expenditure of the country's 43.2% of GDP sector. The country's deficit under this methodology is estimated at 0.94% of GDP on the basis of the 2008 draft amending budget, and the country's consolidated revenue for 2009 is estimated at 41.5% of GDP, the consolidated expenditure at 42.1 percentage points of GDP and the deficits of the country's sector, according to the 2009 proposals, to be only 0.57% of GDP. On this occasion, I would like to stress in particular that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, from the composition of the first budget, continues to record the lower realisation of the deficit of the state sector every year. In 2005, we planned a deficit of 1.7 per cent of GDP and it was realized at 1.5. In 2006, we predicted a country deficit of 1.6 GDP, and it was realized at 1.2. In comparison, I would like to point out that the average deficit of EU countries in 2006 was 1.7 percentage points of GDP and 1.6 percentage points within the European monetary union. Slovenia is here in a very positive direction over the average. Given that the public sector of the old Member States of the European Union is on average more heavily indebted than the public sector in Slovenia and that, due to the urgent infrastructure projects, we are forced to devote spending to this end, Slovenia has achieved very good results in relation to the deficit, taking these circumstances into account. For 2007, we recorded a deficit of 1.6 percentage points of GDP in the Stability Programme; the current 2007 implementation assessment is a deficit in the state sector of a low of 0.57 percentage points of GDP. And also in the 2008 Draft amending budget, the country's sector deficit is projected to be lower by 0.8 percentage points than the deficit foreseen in the Stability Programme next year. Based entirely on these data and these trends, we can expect to achieve the central medium-term fiscal objective in 2010, which is a structurally balanced budget. Dear Members and honourable Members! Since the beginning of the mandate, the government has been building a fiscal policy on the fundamental principles of the Growth and Stability Agreement, which foresees that deficits are shrinking during the current period and, if possible, a budgetary reserve is being created. We have systematically reduced the budget deficit over the years since the start of the mandate. Of course, it indicates that the budget deficit under the ESA-95 methodology at the end of 2004 was 2.3 percentage points of GDP, and in the 2008 budget changes we are proposing to the National Assembly a deficit budget of less than 1 percentage point. As I have pointed out in the introduction, as one of the priorities of action for achieving the basic development goals, the Government has put a competitive and healthy economy at the forefront of domestic and foreign markets. Since the Slovenian economy has so far been overly burdened by taxes, we have already taken some of the most urgent measures in the first year of our mandate. With a very low deficit of 0.6 percentage points of gross domestic product according to ESA-95 methodology or 0.3 percentage points per national account, the 2009 budget proposal is most interesting because this year the tax on paid salaries is completely abolished. In 2006, we adopted a comprehensive tax reform and, together with the gradual abolition of the tax on paid salaries, the Slovenian economy became very burdensome. With the tax package that came into force earlier this year, we have reduced the number of classes in the taxation of the income of natural persons and reduced the high level of progress of the income scale and thus significantly burdened the active revenues. In this way, employment of the most creative is significantly more motivated, and employers are more motivated to employ highly educated workers. They also support other changes made in the tax environment. Previously, this workforce was, by comparison, too expensive for the company. At the same time, we have raised the overall relief, and we have abolished the reliefs that have been enjoyed mainly by those with high personal benefits. With the Law on the Income of Legal Persons, we have foreseen a gradual reduction in the tax rate to 20% by 2010 - from 25 to 20% - to correct certain tax bases and facilitations so that the tax environment will also make an additional positive contribution to development. In a developmental sense, we expect very much from the relief for research and development. The taxable person will be able to reduce the tax base by 20 percentage points of the amount of R & D investment, with a regional component up to 40% of that amount. With this regional relief, we would also like to encourage an innovative activity in less developed regions, which is, of course, essential to investment with high added value. We are confident that this relief will also contribute decisively to the progress of the restructuring of the Slovenian economy towards greater technological complexity and the achievement of higher added value. In our efforts to create a more competitive and stimulating tax environment, we have, inter alia, abolished double taxation and the tax procedure has been significantly simplified. Now, despite repeated debates and numerous unjustified attacks on the government at the time of last year's consideration of the value added tax budget, we have not raised it and we do not intend to. Dear Members and Members! With this comprehensive tax reform, which took effect this year, the Slovenian economy has been heavily burdened and has been able to develop faster. This, of course, means that we have reduced the revenue to the budget in the period 2004-2008 by more than 2 percentage points of gross domestic product. Of course, in order to compensate for the loss of these revenues and to achieve this economic burden, it was necessary to achieve a developmental restructuring of the budget through rationalisation and a cost-effective use of public budgets. For the first time since the existence of independent Slovenia, there has also been a trend of employment in the state administration, which has further enabled this austerity restructuring. In this way, the Government will reduce the budget expenditure of the ESA-95 methodology by more than 3% of the gross domestic product point over the period 2004-2008. Our coalition goal was 2% and everyone said it was unrealistic. It will be completed and will be exceeded by 50%. We have achieved such a result, and this is very important, without any reduction in social rights and at the same time increasing resources for science and all other development sectors. The budgets for 2008 and 2009 increase the funds allocated to the economy as well as the resources for an active employment policy. In the field of science and education, for which we have earmarked 0.67% of GDP in 2007, we increase the funds in the following year to 0.73% of the points and in 2009 to 0.81% of the points. This increase is necessary as compared to the European Union we are still lagging behind the share of tertiaryly educated in the educational composition of the working population. While government measures in the field of secondary and higher education have already shown results, the number of students is increasing each year. However, at meetings with economists on visits, on regular monthly visits to the government in the regions, we no longer face the problem of unemployment, as was the problem two years ago when we began these visits. Today, economists are focusing on the lack of technological and natural guidance for workers, which is mainly due to a poorly planned tendering policy in the past. With great efforts, the Government has taken measures in this area over the past three years, and has started to implement them, which gradually begin to change the ratio between the number of students enrolled in secondary, higher and higher schools in favour of technical and natural orientations. However, it will not be possible to change this relationship overnight, or it will not be possible to change it overnight to such an extent as the needs of the economy and this missed entry policy over the past ten years will be one of the key obstacles to the development of the Slovenian economy in the coming years. We are increasing research and development funds and approaching the target of 3% of GDP for these purposes by 2010. In 2008, Slovenia allocates a one-off amount of 0.1% of the GDP point to the Presidency of the European Union, in so far as there is no cost, it would have practically offset the budget next year. The more important feature of the draft amending budget and the 2009 draft budget is the increased transport resources. The modernisation on the second track of Koper-Divača has been discussed for years and years, and the state of the railway system has been deteriorating all the time. The government is looking in a transparent and cost-effective way for solutions that would allow tax collectors, in the form of a public-private partnership, in particular for the purpose of modernising railway infrastructure and building new routes, including the Koper-Divača track, as well as for the completion of the highway and for the construction of the necessary transport development axes, to raise funds in real time. In 2008 and 2009, the means of transport increased by 0.6% compared to 2007. Although without spending on rail infrastructure in 2008 we would achieve a practically negligible budget deficit and completely eliminate it in 2009, we have created the conditions that Slovenia's medium-term budgetary objective of a structurally balanced budget despite these investments could be achieved in 2010. At the same time, we also laid the foundations for the urgent modernisation of the rail network, the completion of the highway cross and the start of the construction of the necessary transport development axes. Both will have an exception, all of which will have extremely positive effects on the development of the Slovenian economy and the future development of Slovenia as a whole. A structurally balanced budget will also be very important for ensuring the long-term stability of public finances, even though pensions and health services in Slovenia will be adequate and stable, in accordance with the socio-economic principle, until 2020 at least now, the Government has been leading coordinated policies in various areas to ensure even longer-term sustainable public finances. Here we have in mind all the necessary measures for a long-term sustainable increase in economic growth, employment rates, the share of insured persons in the population as a whole, the maintenance of the appropriate ratio between active and retired populations, the greater responsibility of the individual for his social situation and the promotion of inclusion in voluntary pension insurance. The developmental orientation of the budget is also confirmed by the fact that this time we have fully integrated the projects contained in the Resolution on National Development Projects. These are systematically included in the 2009 draft budget and the 2008 budget changes in the Development Programmes Plan for the first time. This is how €610 million is allocated to projects under the resolution for 2008, and half of this amount is provided from the State budget. A total of €727 million is planned for 2009 for the resolution projects, of which 43% are from the state budget. And given that this is a live programme, which is being complemented during the year, we expect that further efforts will be made to put in place more projects, which are partially or fully resolution when the conditions are met. As I said in the introduction, in the context of economic and social reforms, the Government has adopted most of the measures to achieve the objectives of the Slovenian Development Strategy, which are also the objectives of the European Union's Lisbon Strategy in the Slovenian part of Europe. The assessments of a number of international institutions also confirm that we are doing well in achieving these objectives. According to the European Institute of Ambrosetti's assessment of the speed of approximation of the main Lisbon objectives, Slovenia is ranked fourth. According to the European Reform Barometer, only two Union countries are better classified, six are at roughly the same level, and many are worse classified, including many who have or had better conditions a few years ago. Last week, we concluded almost two years of long negotiations with the signing of the Social Agreement. With the social partners, we have tried to strike a balance between the need for the economy to become more competitive on the one hand and to maintain the social security of employees and trade unions on the other. The signed Social Agreement is a compromise, which is also specifically reflected in the proposal for a new Labour Relations Act, and its changes bring a number of improvements in the area of greater flexibility in the labour market. At the same time, it is important to stress, and therefore the negotiations have lasted so long that a balance has been achieved and that the social security of employees is not reduced at the expense of greater flexibility. Slovenia is placed at the centre of the administrative burdens between the Member States of the European Union. Over the last two years, we have abolished a number of unnecessary bureaucratic procedures and Slovenia received a specific European recognition of good practice for the Programme for the Elimination of Administrative Barriers last month. The introduction of the system All in one place for independent entrepreneurs has proved to be good and will soon be the same for companies, which will reduce the time of establishment of the company to just a few days. On the European Commission's post-eGovernment scale, we have progressed from last year's seventh to this year's excellent second place among all the Member States of the European Union. It is also right to touch on this site the intergenerational and co-generational development objective, which means the application of the principle of sustainability as a fundamental quality criterion in all areas of development, including the goal of sustainable population renewal. Above all, in the environment, I can say that the government is giving increasing attention to environmental protection. One of the important objectives is to increase renewable energy sources. To protect the environment, this is one of the key objectives. While Slovenia ranks above the average of the European Union, much can still be done in this area and much effort will be made in the coming years. Dear Members and Members! We Slovenians are still on the tail between the Member States, both the European Union and the European Monetary Union. And trends have been worrying and negative up until recently, but today we can find a comforting fact that, after a long-term decline in births, the trend has finally turned upward in 2004 and if it continues at the current pace, Slovenia will leave the start of the European demographic scale in the coming years. The social development objective to improve the quality of life and increase the well-being of all is the second of those development goals in our strategy. This objective is not in second place because it would not be the most important, because improving the quality of life and increasing prosperity is the most important goal, finally all state function holders for this speaker or here swear to it, but logically, logically, it is written in second place, because it is a permanent power to achieve it only by achieving the objective written in the logical first place, which is economic development or economic growth. Only economic growth can create healthy basics for greater prosperity, all other formulas have proved to be wrong, and in this mandate these achievements, as presented in this introduction, are the greatest result of the fact that the government is aware of this fact. There's nothing you can share that you can't create. Slovenia is classified as a high social state, according to data on the level of poverty risk between the European Union countries, only three countries within the European Union are better than us. This is a very good and important result which places Slovenia among countries with a strong hearing for socially disadvantaged categories. A significant reduction in the proportion of the population living below the poverty line in recent years is mainly due to higher employment or to a reduction in unemployment and a general increase in well-being. Slovenia had 2% lower unemployment than the European Union average at the end of 2006 according to the International Labour Organisation methodology. Among the euro area Member States, only four countries had lower unemployment, namely the Netherlands, Ireland, Luxembourg and Austria. Dear Members and honourable Members, I should like to conclude by thinking that these comparisons, which make it possible to make a real comparison because we are using the same methodology, show that Slovenia is also successful and hastening the reach of the more developed countries in Europe. And the results we have achieved in recent years prove that we are in line with the challenges posed by a challenging international environment. Since the entry into the European Monetary Union in January this year, we are only comparing ourselves with the best since there are no higher leagues than this. And the budget documents for 2008 and 2009, which are in front of you, are prepared to allow for the continuation of a good developmental pace and a rapid increase in prosperity in Slovenia. For this reason, I propose that you support them after the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u15	Thank you. I request Dr Andre Bajuk, Minister of Finance, to provide additional presentation of the budgetary documents. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Members of Parliament, honourable Mr President of the Government, fellow Minister and fellow ministers! In preparing the 2008-2009 budget memorandum, the Government has taken into account the guidelines for the development strategy of the Republic of Slovenia and the commitments under the Coalition Treaty, which have a common objective of achieving greater economic growth and greater prosperity for all citizens and citizens. The year 2007 is a success for Slovenia and, given the public financial situation, we can call it a breakthrough, and this year we have also successfully implemented the introduction of the euro. However, the Government's expectations regarding the impact and consequences of the economic and social reforms that Mr President of the Government has already presented and reiterated in the context of economic and social stability have been expressed. Today, the positive effects of the reform programme, both tax and others, are visible, including the withdrawal of the country from the economy and the amendment of labour law to economic growth and the overall development of Slovenia. Slovenia has met all the required Maastricht criteria and has achieved high economic growth in 2006, which is continuing or even increasing this year. We note that Slovenia will already achieve and exceed its ambitious 2005 medium-term objective this year, in line with the reformed version of the Stability and Growth Pact adopted by the presidents of the Member States at the beginning of 2005, to reduce the country's structural deficit below the projected 1% of GDP in 2009. According to recent estimates by the Ministry of Finance, this objective will be achieved already this year. Since its launch in December 2004, the government has reduced the expenditure of the state sector by 3% of the point measured according to the ESA-95 methodology, which is 50% higher and one year earlier than it is expected to achieve under the coalition contract for the entire four-year term. Taking into account the proposal for amending the 2008 budget and the 2009 budget proposal, the share of the country's expenditure will be reduced by more than 4% of the GDP. The correct fiscal policy has certainly contributed to this result in recent years, among other things. In doing so, it is necessary to stress the successful implementation of tax reform and the conservative planning of fiscal policy under favourable economic conditions. Such a policy will continue in 2008 and 2009, so the government will continue to respect the Stability and Growth Pact and, to the maximum extent possible, follow the principle of sound management with limited resources, seek to achieve certain fiscal objectives, as it is crucial to achieve the long-term sustainability and developmental orientation of Slovenian public finances. Such fiscal policy significantly reduces the country's consumption of GDP and also the pressure on inflation. I would also like to point out that the country's real growth rate in 2007 will be only 1.7% and is the lowest in the last six years. Both the 2008 changes in the state budget and the 2009 draft budget have been formulated by the government in a period of favourable macroeconomic environment and through policies that ensure macroeconomic stability. Based on statistics from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, this year's record high economic growth is largely due to high exports and increased investments. The latest data on external trade published by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia show that exports increased by 18.4% in the first 8 months of 2007 compared to the same period in 2006 and imports by 19.1%. The increase in investment is reflected in all areas and not just in construction. The economic climate index is still high above the long-term average and is due to the favourable expectations of entrepreneurs, and all of this justifies us with optimism about our common future. As you are aware, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development in the autumn forecast for this year has announced 5.8% economic growth and gradual calming to 4.6% in 2008 and 4.1% in 2009, a rather conservative assessment in a given environment, which has increased the risks of possible additional reconciliation. In recent months inflation has increased slightly, mainly due to the rise in food prices and oil and petroleum derivatives, but it is estimated that Umarja is this increase in the transitional nature, as all key economic policies remain restrictive and focused on maintaining macroeconomic stability. In particular, I would like to highlight Umar's 2008 inflation forecasts, which show that inflation will remain at the 2007 level, mainly due to the statistical impact of price growth in 2007, and in 2009 average inflation will fall to the 2006 level of only 2.5%. In this area, the government will continue to take measures, as already mentioned by Mr President of the Government, which will have an impact on price calming, such as measures to increase competition, to increase consumer information, to prevent possible cartel arrangements, to strictly control the prices which, in its competence and in accordance with the European directives, regulate low excise duties. Again, I must stress that the relatively high inflation rate in recent months is also due to the rise in oil and oil prices, which have a greater impact on inflation in Slovenia than in other European Union countries. According to the average consumption of Slovenian households, the share of oil and oil derivatives within the basket of goods and services, which is estimated to be 8%, while the same share is only 4% on average in the euro group Member States. Dear Members and Members! Before presenting the changes to the 2008 state budget and the 2009 draft budget, allow me to speak about the implementation of the so-called global balance sheet of the state sector under the ESA-95 methodology, which is the way in which the European Commission and the European Central Bank assess our respect for the Stability and Growth Pact. This means not only the state budget, but also the balance sheet of pensions and health bills, the budgets of municipalities and all public institutions, public funds and agencies, and the SOD and the CAD, which form the whole country sector according to the ESA-95 methodology. As I mentioned, the latest estimates of fiscal aggregates show that the country's expected revenues will be around 43% of GDP in 2007 and 44.1% of GDP in 2006. According to the same estimates, the expenditure of the country sector will be only 43.6% of GDP this year, with a 45.3% share of GDP in 2006. The country's deficit in 2007 will therefore be only 0.57% of GDP, according to current estimates. For 2007, the stability and growth programme projected a deficit of 1.6% of GDP, i.e. one percent lower. Let me mention that the country's 2006 deficit has also been reduced according to the latest published data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, as assessed in the stability programme. It was only 1.2% of GDP and the 2006 stability programme was 1.6%. On the basis of these data, we can argue that the government's policy of reducing the country's deficit in recent years has produced good results, consistently better than those announced in the Stability and Growth Programme. In order to continue to reduce the deficit of the state sector at the top of government priorities, it is evidenced by the reduction in the expenditure of the state sector foreseen by the Government in the preparation of the budget for the next two years. As I said in the introduction, the government will reduce the expenditure of the state sector by as much as three percentage points of GDP from 46.5 in 2004 to 43.6 percent of GDP in 2007. I would also like to mention that this reduction in public spending is of strategic importance and is an important achievement of government fiscal policy, especially when we compare all of this with comparable data from 2000 onwards. In 2000, the country's expenditure was 47.4% of GDP, and in 2001 it was 48.2%, and in 2002 and 2003 it was 47.1, and in 2004 it was 46.5, and at the end of 2007, it was 43.5. I would like to point out that the assessment of the country's expected deficit in 2007, already mentioned in 0.57% of GDP, is the lowest since 2000. In 2000, this deficit was 3.8%, and in 2001 it increased to 4% of GDP, then to 2.5, 2.7 and finally 2.3. In the first year of this government, the country's deficit fell to 1.5%, in 2006 to 1.2%, as I have already mentioned, and this year, as has already been said, it is only 0.57%. This is an important achievement, especially if we know at the same time that we have reduced the tax burden on the population as well as the economy, which I will talk about later. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly explain the composition and priority of the state budget for 2008 and 2009. Let me point out once again that the state budget represents only 58% of the public expenditure I have already talked about, so this is only part of the spending of the state sector. The deficit of the state budget, which is a key part of the overall public financial balance, will also decrease by a third in 2008 compared to the budget currently in force and will be 0.6% of GDP. In the 2008 budget adopted, this deficit was projected at 0.9% of GDP, and in 2009 we are also planning a further significant 50% reduction in the 2008 budget deficit, which will be only 0.3% of GDP. It should be clarified that the projected higher deficit of the State budget, which is still lower than that foreseen in the 2008 budget already adopted, is the result of organisational changes in railways or related investments in rail infrastructure and the Presidency of the European Union. Already in the presentation and adoption of the 2007 budget balance, we have explained that the reason for drawing up the budget balance in the organisational changes in the rail sector is. The management of rail investment has been transferred from the Railway Agency to a new body within the Ministry of Transport. This is the Rail Traffic Directorate. As a result, in 2007 the state budget increased for these purposes, but they did not increase the expenditure of the whole sector of the country, which we have always made clear and stressed, but, given the specific statements we are hearing, this needs to be clarified again. Public consumption, i.e. the consumption of the whole country sector, is not due to this organisational change and will not increase in the coming years. I reiterate that the budget deficits in the 2008 Draft amending budget are decreasing in the light of the 2008 budget adopted, despite the additional inclusion in the budget of the mentioned investments in railway infrastructure of EUR 110 million, which is 0.3% of GDP. I would also like to draw attention to another segment of one-off events in 2008, namely the cost of the EU Presidency of 37 million euros, representing 0.1% of GDP. Without the above expenditure, investments in railways and Presidency funds, it would already be possible to reduce the deficit of the state budget to only 0.2% of GDP in 2008 and the budget for 2009 would actually be flattened. The 2008 draft budget totals €8,635 million in revenue, which is 24% of the expected GDP, and €8,865 million in expenditure, or 24.6% of GDP. The largest share of revenue, almost 85%, is tax revenue, i.e. EUR 7,324 million. European revenues are estimated at €800.5 million, non-tax revenues of €480.5 million, capital revenues, grants and transfer revenues are planned at €48.4 million. The expenditure of the State budget increased by 419.9 million in 2008 compared to the 2008 budget, now in force, by 5%. Of this, €191.3 million is European funds or projects financed from the European budget. The 2009 Draft State Budget totals EUR 8,987 million in revenue, which is 23.4% of GDP, and EUR 9,112 million in expenditure, or 23.7% of GDP - the largest part of which is pension protection, social protection, education and transport, transport infrastructure and communication. It is important that the expenditure of the State budget is reduced as a proportion of GDP in 2008 compared to the budget adopted, with the adopted budget for 2008 estimated that the share of expenditure would be 25.6%, of which the so-called domestic expenditure is 23.7%, and the European share would be 1.9% of GDP. However, the 2008 draft amending budget provides that these total expenditure would amount to 24.7% of GDP, of which the so-called domestic expenditure is 22.4 and the European part is 2.2% of GDP. As a proportion of GDP, government budget expenditure has been declining since 2005 and, more importantly, the so-called domestic budget cuts, i.e. without the funds we receive from the EU, from 24.5% of GDP in 2004 and 2005 to 22.4% of GDP in 2008 and even 21.4% of GDP in 2009. However, the European part of programme expenditure is increasing from year to year, from 0.9% in 2007 to 2.2% of GDP in 2008 and 2.3% of GDP in 2009, which is the logical consequence of making the most effective use of the funds allocated to us in the European budget. The period of the new financial perspective, which will continue until 2013, started in 2007. In doing so, we must be aware that payments from this financial perspective can be made by 2015. Although Slovenia is first among the new Member States in terms of the effectiveness of European funding drawback, in 2007 this drawback of the European funds of the new financial perspective will be slightly worse than originally planned, partly due to the start of the new financial perspective this year. We must be aware that this pumping must be carried out in a particularly careful manner and that all the procedures envisaged must be carried out precisely, as any weakness or irregularity can lead to less European money or even the recovery of funds already received. I believe that for the real assessment of the net situation of Slovenia, it is more appropriate to take into account data for the entire programming period, i.e. a multi-annual period than only monthly or annual data on the use of European funds. Monitoring the monthly or annual net position in Slovenia is only made sense by displaying the current picture, which is by no means as important as the State's important net position throughout the whole period, that is until the end of the programming period. It should also be noted once again that the negative net situation in a given year does not in any way constitute a worse overall projected net position of the Republic of Slovenia for the entire programming period. Compared to the 2008 budget adopted, transport, foreign policy, agriculture, economy and health are the most important sources of funding, and more resources are also devoted to science and technology as well as to active employment policies. The changes in rail financing are a key reason why the transport sector in the 2008 draft budget is the largest increase compared to the budget adopted. In 2008, 780.8 million euros and 2.2% of GDP will be allocated to transport. Slovenia will have to face important priorities in the future to ensure greater development potential, and the construction of the fifth and tenth railway corridor is certainly the first. The field of foreign policy spending is increasing for two reasons: for the first time, the funding of the programme for the Presidency of Slovenia by the EU, which is increasing by €10.4 million and the total volume of resources remains at €62 million - for the Presidency. Secondly, in line with the dynamics or realisation in 2007, funds for external affairs and consular services are also increasing. The area of agriculture is growing significantly in nominal figures for 2008 by EUR 96.6 million compared to the budget adopted, but it should be stressed that a large majority of this increase, namely EUR 87.3 of these EUR 96.6 million, is at the expense of European funds. Otherwise, we have decided in the area of agriculture, this is the Government's decision to implement rural development measures in the period N+1 and not in the period N+2, which Europe allows and would be in full compliance with European regulations. We have decided to take this step with a view to making it easier to monitor individual measures and to implement payments, and in particular to ensure that the funds are received first by the final beneficiaries, Slovenian farmers. The area of science and technology is very important. Once again, I would like to point out that, in line with the commitments made in the Lisbon Strategy, we are increasing the share of expenditure for this purpose, which will already amount to 0.81% of GDP in 2009. On the basis of the annual accounts, it can be found that 163.9 million euros or 0.61% of GDP were allocated to science and technology in 2004. Already in 2005, this figure increased by 8.4%, 0.63% of GDP, by an additional 8.6% in 2006, to EUR 207.4 million or 0.68% of GDP. In 2007, it is estimated that the realisation will increase by 7.9% to 223.7 million. For 2008, it is proposed to increase this amount by 17.9% to EUR 263.2 million or 0.73% of GDP. In 2009, we propose that resources for science and technology be increased by an additional 18.9% to €313 million. This means that, during the term of office of these Governments, the budget allocated to science and technology will increase by 91% compared to 2004, and that the proportion of GDP will increase by 33%, from 0.61% of GDP in 2004 to 0.81%, the planned share of GDP in 2009. For the financing of tertiary education, the 2008 and 2009 budgets maintain a favourable trend over the years. Thus, 213 million or 7.3% more were allocated to tertiary education in 2005 than in 2004. Indeed, EUR 231 million has already been spent in 2006, and in 2007 it is projected to reach EUR 248 million. We propose that funding for tertiary education be increased to EUR 276 million in 2008 and EUR 302 million in 2009. By comparing the share of tertiary education as a share of the overall budget, we can see that tertiary education as a share of budgetary spending increases from 2.9% in 2005 to 3.3% in 2009. Funding for the Active Employment Policy Programme is also increasing from year to year, estimated at €81 million in 2007 and planned at €113 million in 2008, which represents a 53% increase in 2004 in terms of realisation. The relevant government employment policy is reflected in the historical low unemployment rate in Slovenia. The unemployment rate, according to the so-called ILO methodology, is the methodology of this international institution, the organisation for work, which was 6.3% in 2004 and 6% in 2005 and 6.6% in 2006. We expect it to be 5% this year and 4.9% in 2009 and 4.8% in 2009. In addition to the reduction in the unemployment rate, the labour force increased by almost 70 000 from December 2004 to July 2007. With regard to the expenditure side of the budget, I would like to stress that the expenditure on transfers is being reduced to individuals as the number of persons entitled to financial compensation for the unemployed and those entitled to transfers for the socially disadvantaged decreases from year to year. However, I must point out that this decline in the number of beneficiaries is not due to the amended sectoral legislation, which would limit the number of beneficiaries, but also to the growing material situation of citizens and citizens and a successful government policy in all areas. At this point, I would also like to mention Eurostat's comparative data on the index by which they measure the relative strength or effectiveness of the social state over the so-called risk of poverty in all EU Member States. To this end, the share of the population with income, including social transfers, is below 60% of national average or median. According to the latest available data for 2005, between all EU Member States Slovenia, together with Finland and Denmark - together with Finland and Denmark at the same level - ranked 12% at the fourth place with the lowest risk of poverty in the EU, immediately for Sweden - 9%, the Czech Republic - 10%, the Netherlands -11. Slovenia and Denmark and Finland 12%. The positive impact of the economic and social reforms carried out in Slovenia is reflected in increased employment and living standards and the reduction in the number of beneficiaries of social transfers. The funds allocated to the economy will amount to €177 million in 2008, which is 0.5% of GDP, compared to 2007 this represents 0.25% of GDP and €90 million more. This is only part of the funds allocated to the economy, in addition to the many already mentioned burdens due to changes in tax legislation. I would also like to highlight the areas where budgetary spending is falling. Expenditure on internal affairs and security is being reduced as a result of the completion of the project for the construction of the southern border and is therefore fully understandable as a result of the reduction of funds for this purpose. It is particularly important that I further explain to you the projected reduction in resources for the purpose of local self-government. In that case, it is only more appropriate to show expenditure for regional development purposes, namely transport infrastructure, housing, environmental protection and so on, but not for less funds for local level, that is to say to the municipalities. When we look at the economic structure of the budget, we see that the funds to co-finance investments at local level are increasing investment transfers to municipalities from year to year. In 2007, investment transfers to municipalities will amount to €106 million, or 0.5% of GDP. In 2008, these funds will amount to as much as €317 million, or 0.9% of GDP. In order to avoid misunderstandings about the reduction of funds for local self-government, I would stress once again that there is no way that the funds allocated to the municipalities are being reduced, but that it is a matter of more accurate presentation of data in the areas of consumption or purpose in the budgets presented. Dear Members and Members! On the basis of the tax reforms carried out, the Government reduced taxes on citizens and citizens, as well as burdened businesses or the economy. The effects of tax reform are showing up and will continue to show up gradually until 2010. However, they refer to a relative reduction in the revenue of the Republic of Slovenia's budget. The share of the tax revenues of the state budget in GDP has been declining since 2006. So in 2006 it was 22%, this year we expect 21.1% and we plan in 2008 - 20.4% and in 2009 19.9% of the tax share in GDP. This therefore means a reduction of 2.1% of GDP between 2006 and 2009. In 2009, the tax revenues of the budget will for the first time in the history of Slovenia alone fall below 20% of GDP. Changes in income in 2005 and 2006 have reduced the over-progressivity of taxation and increased overall relief. However, it is important not to forget other changes in income, such as the introduction of cedularity in the taxation of dividends, capital gains and interest, which has prevented further capital movements to other countries. The effects of reduced rates of income and increased general relief mean a real higher net salary for all taxpayers and thus greater motivation for work and higher living standards. What does this mean for Slovenian taxpayers? With amendments to the Income Act, in particular with a higher overall relief and a reduction in the progression of the income scale, the average real net salary increased by 6.5% from 2004 to 2007. On average, income decreased by 26.8% compared to 2004. The real net minimum wage also increased by 5.2% during the same period and the income decreased to 39.2%. The government's actions are not merely aimed at changing tax rates, but the government is also seeking to increase the administrative efficiency of the tax administration. This year we introduced part of the pre-fulfilled income forecast, and in 2008 Slovenian taxpayers will receive a complete tax return. However, the government has not focused solely on natural persons when amending tax legislation, but it has also taken a major step in the area of corporate taxation. Thus, the corporate tax rate decreased by two percentage points, from 25 to 23%, and will be reduced by one percentage point per year until it settles to 20% in 2010. By eliminating economic double taxation, adapting the tax base to accounting standards and other significant changes, we have made it possible to increase the efficiency and substantial administrative and fiscal burdens of the economy. However, what effect these changes will have on Slovenian companies as a result of these changes, which in fact mean a reduction in the tax base for the replacement of investment relief, by facilitating research and development and reducing the corporate income tax rate, will reduce the company's profit tax by up to 30% by 2009. The state budget for 2008 and 2009 is development-oriented. As already mentioned, resources for science and technology are increasing from year to year. Thus, in 2005 resources for this important segment of development were realised at 0.63% of GDP. In 2007 they will be realised at 0.67% of GDP. In 2008, they increase by 0.73 and a record 0.81 in 2009. In addition, we leave investment in R & D to entrepreneurs themselves, as they have been able to benefit from such investments in recent tax changes. Therefore, 20% of the investment in R & D is made available to companies. Let me also mention that we have recently received a Communication from the European Commission, in which it gave us its consent for additional research and development facilities of up to 20% for this purpose to companies in less developed regions. Accordingly, in the coming days, the Government will introduce a new regulation which will allow this additional regional tax relief for research and development of 10 % and 20% of the additional aid from invested funds. The amount of regional tax relief will depend on the gross domestic product per capita in the individual statistical region according to the national average. In regions where GDP per capita is up to 15% lower than the country average, in Savinja, South-Eastern Slovenia, Gorenje and Goriška, there is an additional 10% regional tax relief for research and development. In regions with more than 15% lower GDP per capita than the average of the country, namely Pomurska, Podravska, Koroška, Zasavska, Podnjeposavska and Notranjsko-kraška, regional tax incentives for research and development amount to an additional 20%. So it's 40 percent. Data from the tax administration show that 548 taxpayers benefited from R & D benefits totalling EUR 59.7 million in 2006. This is 24 times more than in 2005, when 222 taxpayers benefited from this relief in total value of EUR 2.5 million. The Government therefore waived the corporate income tax of almost EUR 15 million by introducing that relief in 2006. However, we expect that this year the number of taxpayers applying this relief will be significantly higher. The gradual abolition of the tax on taxes paid, which will be definitively abolished in 2009, will also contribute to the further decommissioning and increase of competitiveness and the economy and will lead to a direct fiscal burden on businesses totalling €471 million per year. Last year, at this time, we reported to this National Assembly that, according to our expectations, a higher value added tax rate would not be necessary. In the light of the economic growth assessments, we have allowed the possibility of raising the VAT rate, but we have made it clear in this National Assembly that the Government will lead such a policy so that this will not happen. In this regard, we can now reiterate that no change in the value added tax rate will be required in the recent estimates of fiscal aggregates in the coming years. Dear Members and Members! The government will continue with a prudent policy of public spending and revenue planning, and we estimate that the current forecasts of economic growth for 2008 and 2009 are quite conservative. This will make a significant contribution to Slovenia's medium- and long-term macroeconomic stability, which is the fundamental role of fiscal policy when it enters the European Monetary Union. The proposal for state budgets for 2008 and 2009 is an expression of the commitment to improve the quality of public finances and the government's commitment that fiscal policy should contribute to fostering the level of the more developed Member States of the European Union. We continue the process of gradual fiscal consolidation, which is in line with the Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Slovenia, the amendments and the Stability and Growth Pact and, last but not least, with the programme commitments of this Government, as enshrined in our coalition treaty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u17	Thank you. This concludes the presentation of the 2008 and 2009, Draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and the 2009 draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Today's presentation starts with the deadline for the submission of amendments to the 2009 Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Members and Members of Parliament, Members' groups and interested working bodies may submit amendments up to and including 22 October 2007. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Position of the Republic of Slovenia to draft a Treaty amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community. The draft position was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, to present the explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u18	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Messengers and Members! In February 2005, we ratified the so-called European Constitutional Treaty in this National Assembly. Slovenia was among the first to ratify this treaty, and we were one of the 19 countries to do so. Unfortunately, the text then fell at the referendum in France and the Netherlands, and this rejection was fatal for the Constitutional Treaty. It took some time before the European Union took its breath and came to the solution that is before us today or to the key step towards the solution that needs to be made. At first glance, it seems that the efforts we have made in Slovenia to ratify the European Constitutional Treaty have been fruitless and in vain. Of course it's just at first sight. The support that we and all the Member States that ratified the Treaty have given to the content of this Treaty has been strong enough today, despite the rejection in France and the Netherlands and the scepticism in some countries that have not implemented this decision, to be able to adopt a new treaty before an intergovernmental conference at which the European Union can adopt a slightly different form. So, after a period of so-called reflection, which some have also referred to as a crisis period, we are ahead of an optimistic step. This new treaty, in essence, is a treaty that will complement existing images in force in the European Union, as has always been the case with similar documentary documents, reflecting the balance between political ambitions that are usually greater and the actual situation or reality of reality, a reality that is always slightly lowering these ambitions. But if we are now going to the very decision that is ahead of us, and we are going to the substantive assessment of the proposal that we are supposed to adopt, then it must be established first that this new treaty retains a large majority of the content of the former Constitutional Treaty, which was ratified by the Slovenian Parliament among the first. To some extent, the symbols are sacrificed and the structure is sacrificed, and at least 90% of the content is preserved. It is important for us that this Treaty contains all those provisions that are indispensable to Slovenia. Let me write them down for a second. This is an institutional balance, one of the primary interests of the smaller members to which Slovenia belongs, and this institutional balance is maintained. Secondly, European institutions are getting better fences. The new Treaty gives us a more effective European Commission, and its President will be loved in the European Parliament. The role of the High Representative of the Union for Foreign and Security Policy is also newly defined. At the same time, he will also serve as the current High Foreign Policy Representative of the Union and Commissioner for External Relations. Things will be brought together; in this area, the European Union will be more effective. The contract shall retain all those acquisitions in the constitutional text that enable a more efficient decision-making system. At the same time, the powers of the European Parliament are being extended and thus responds positively to a trend towards greater influence by citizens who directly elect Members of the European Parliament. The interests of European citizens will thus be further placed at the centre and such a guarantee will also be promised by the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which acquires legal effect under the new Treaty. Even in the text of the treaty we decide on, respect for cultural and linguistic diversity remains the foundation of Europe. The word culture already assigned an important place in the preamble to the Treaty, as well as the values that are important to us. In the new Treaty, the delimitation of national and European competences is more transparent than in the existing one and a step forward is maintained here. The legal status of the new contract is the same as in the case of the Treaty on the Constitution and the basic Treaties of the Union. In all cases, this is an international treaty which does not, in a hierarchical sense, have a higher legal effect than national constitutions. In addition to this preserved content, which is crucial to us, the new Treaty also offers some refreshing new arrangements that further enhance the harmonised and ratified text of the Treaty of Constitution for Europe. It's a couple of points. In particular, this proposal enhances the role of national parliaments - this was an explicit requirement on which consensus was reached. When it comes to enlargement of the Union, this becomes more flexible and preserves a political nature - in terms of our priorities and interests, this is important. The principle of solidarity between Member States is given new, stronger dimensions. The new Treaty further highlights it in the area of energy security and sustainable supply and in the fight against climate change. In short, we are responding positively to a challenge that occurred just when we were dealing with the European Constitutional Treaty and the new Treaty is responding to this challenge and there was no constitutional Treaty. For Slovenia, the text is additionally acceptable or is also gratifying because it takes over all the innovations of the Constitutional Treaty, which are particularly favourable to smaller Member States. One of these is the principle that three countries preside over a year and a half. This enables more intensive cooperation, organisational and substantive tasks to be divided, and the human resources potentials to be pooled. Such a presidency will be much more difficult in the future after the entry into force of this Treaty than it will be in the first half of next year, when we will hold an old presidency. A further acquisition, which is important to us, is envisaged for the establishment of the European External Action Service or, as it is called, European diplomacy. This is particularly important in terms of the needs and interests of smaller Member States. In this way we can be directly represented in those countries where we do not have diplomatic consular representations ourselves, and Slovenia will never be able to afford this in full. Although at least 90% of the content of the Constitutional Treaty has actually been preserved, this Treaty does not, of course, reflect something in the European public as was the Treaty of Constitution for Europe, in particular due to a handful of changes that have been introduced and are also most noticeable on the outside. The first such amendment is the termination of the name "constitution", not the constitutional treaty or the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, but the name is the same as in existing treaties. The reference to European symbols has been abandoned; they will still be used as before, but the Treaty does not mention them. The name of the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been changed, the powers have been retained, the name or name of the Minister is not applicable. Nor is the word "law" used, but still "regulations and directives". The law of the Union "de facto" remains over the law of the Member States, but this is not directly stated, but the Treaty refers to the established practice of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which takes this hierarchy into account. Of course, we can regret that the new Treaty, due to structural changes, is not as transparent and understandable as the Constitutional Treaty. The Constitutional Treaty has been drafted as an integral document which can be read as one piece, a single book and, of course, makes it possible to be more transparent. However, the new Treaty has, together with all protocols and declarations above 250 pages, a traditional method of modifying and supplementing existing treaties has been established. Well, despite this flaw, given the key content that has been preserved, the new Reform Treaty deserves our support. The integration process will continue with it much faster than it would have been without it, and many steps that would not have been possible without it will now be possible. We are ahead of the intergovernmental conference and before we adopt the political mandate adopted by the European Council in June this year, translated into the legal language of the draft treaty. Indeed, the mandate set out in the conclusions of the June European Summit for an intergovernmental conference is substantively rounded, complete and successful only if the legal content is also direct and strict, precise translation of the European Council's political conclusions on the mandate of an intergovernmental conference. And this will almost certainly happen, because 20% of the effort has been made before, and 20% of the results have been achieved in the June world and preparations. Now it is essentially a technical step where it can still be complicated, but there are not many real possibilities and we can be happy about it. So the European Union has moved forward with this breakthrough, which is now necessary to operationalise with the new Treaty, and if the crisis has been discussed earlier, we can now talk about achievements that enable new ones. It is precisely this success, when the European Council adopted a clear timetable and substantive mandate for an intergovernmental conference in June, that allows this content to be defended and that we actually accept the Treaty as it has been politically coordinated with a great deal of difficulty. We have a few important weeks ahead of us, in a few days' time, foreign ministers will be considering the text, and a few days later, the informal summit in Lisbon will take the next step; if it succeeds, we expect the signing of the Treaty in December. For us, this step in content is important, and the timeline itself is particularly important, because in some ways it is changing the atmosphere in the European Union, the motivation has risen, given the upcoming Presidency, this is of paramount importance, and it would be more difficult to chair in the context of some pessimism when solutions are still being sought than now when our key task of monitoring the ratification process, which is also an important process, but this is much easier than if we still had to coordinate solutions. So, from this point of view, the thing has gone well for us. However, this time of ratification is important, it is important that it is as short as possible from the point of view of catching deadlines for the next elections to the European Parliament in 2009, and as far as we can, Slovenia will also contribute to making this process as quickly as possible. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Allow me to conclude with a sentence that Schuman said years ago. He said, "Europe will not be built immediately and not on a single plan." This has also been proven this time, but this time it has also been proven that after a period of stagnation Europe is capable of taking two steps forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u19	Thank you. The draft position was addressed by the competent working bodies, namely the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. I give the floor to Mr Anton Kokal, President of the Committee on European Union Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u20	Dear Mr President of the Government, distinguished ministers, Minister, distinguished President of the National Assembly, colleague and colleague! Pursuant to Rule 154 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Committee for the Affairs of the European Union gives the following Report on the Proposal for a Opinion of the Republic of Slovenia to the Draft Treaty amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community. At its 33rd urgent meeting, on 11.10.2007, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the proposal for a position of the Republic of Slovenia to amend the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community, which was forwarded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia pursuant to Article 5(1) of the Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government on matters of the European Union. The State Secretary for European Affairs, Janez Lenarčič, gave an additional explanation, stressing the fact that the new Treaty almost fully preserves the solutions set out in the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe. He highlighted the main acquisitions of the legal text, including the abolition of the three-pillar structure of the European Union, taking into account the specific nature of the common foreign and security policy, the binding legal nature of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the European Union, the integration of the function of the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the Commissioner for External Relations. In voting by a double majority, however, the Secretary of State drew attention to the time frame for the Institute to enter into force. He added that this time there was also a solidarity clause between Member States in the Reform Treaty. More attention has been paid by the Secretary of State to the new Article on the role of national parliaments, which allows this institution to contribute to the good functioning of the Union. In the debate, the members of the Committee on European Union Affairs asked the Government's representatives for the views of the Republic of Slovenia on some open issues concerning the Reform Treaty. In this regard, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who subsequently joined the hearing, has in particular touched on the rights to exempt certain States from the application of certain provisions of the Treaty. Slovenia therefore wants to follow the closed mandate for the intergovernmental conference adopted at the June summit this year, while also aware that certain compromises are also necessary. The Minister submitted his views to Slovenia on specific matters of Poland, Austria, Bulgaria and the Czech Republic. While some Members welcomed the fact that institutional balance has been maintained, others pointed to the terminologically more consistent use of the solutions adopted. The opinions were also divided with regard to the proposed amendment by the Group of Non-Aligned Members to add to the third indent of the proposal of the position of the Republic of Slovenia to the draft Treaty amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community the text that the intergovernmental conference on the legal text of the new Treaty should not be extended by any new proposals or requirements which are not part of the political agreement reached at the European Council in June 2007 and that the protocols to be submitted to the Treaty on European Union and the functioning of the Union should not be supplemented by any new "opt out" reservations made by individual Member States and that the declarations on the provisions of the Treaties should not become part of the text of the new Treaty. Opinions on the appropriateness of the Government's narrower or broader commitment have been circulated by the vote on the proposed amendment. The one with four votes in favour and five against was not adopted. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Affairs of the European Union adopted, pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 1, of the Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government on matters of the European Union and Article 154, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at its 33rd emergency meeting on 11 October 2007, the following decision: "At its 33rd urgent meeting on 11 October 2007, the Committee of the National Assembly for the Affairs of the European Union considered the draft position of the Republic of Slovenia until the draft Treaty amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community, it supported and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt it in the proposed text." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u21	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Joseph Jerovska, President of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, Minister, Honourable Mr. President of Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! At its 71st urgent meeting on 11 October 2007, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia addressed the views of the Republic of Slovenia on the draft Treaty amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community. The Chairman of the Committee initially pointed out that it was in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on matters of the European Union to deal with the proposal of the Republic of Slovenia for the adoption of the Treaties on which the European Union was founded. The text of existing treaties, which is almost entirely the same as the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe, is being amended, but the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe has not entered into force in its form because it has not been ratified by all Member States. On 1 February 2005, the National Assembly adopted the Law on the ratification of the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe, which was a normal procedure for ratification before the Committee on Foreign Policy and before the National Assembly. This time, the procedure is different, as Slovenia, as a Member State, is directly involved in the process of amending the basic treaties in a traditional way, at an intergovernmental conference that began on 23 July 2007. The proposed Treaty thus complements the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community, which will remain in force while the Treaty on European Union would replace it. Dr Dimitrij Rupel, Minister for Foreign Affairs, presented the content of the draft Reform Treaty. He said that almost all the solutions under the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe were adopted. The proposed amendments to the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe, as set out in the mandate for an international conference adopted at the European Council, which took place between 21 and 22 June 2007, relate in particular to a new form of the Treaty, which is reflected in the draft Reform Treaty in the solutions already mentioned, so I will not repeat them. I will say, however, that Minister Rupel also presented the substantive changes and additions included in the mandate of the intergovernmental conference relating to the amendments to the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe. The double majority vote is postponed to 2013 and there will be a transitional period since 2017. In the area of judicial cooperation, certain security guards are partially installed for the UK in criminal matters. New reference to solidarity between members in the field of energy, as well as the fight against climate change, without conferring new powers on the Union. Then there is a greater role for national parliaments in the European legislative process, in the criteria and procedures for accession of the new Members, a reference to the values of the Union and an indication of the criteria for accession agreed upon by the European Council. With regard to the further strengthened role of national parliaments, Minister Rupel pointed out that, compared to the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, the draft Reform Treaty provides for an extended period within which national parliaments can examine draft legislative texts, is extended from six to eight weeks, and also provides for a strengthened subsidiarity control mechanism. Finally, Minister Rupel explained that the text of the explanatory memorandum entitled The procedure for the adoption of acts in the European Union should be replaced by the text of the last paragraph by reading: "The Treaty will enter into force on 1 January 2009, if all instruments of ratification are deposited, otherwise the first day of the month following the deposit of the last instrument of ratification with the Government of the Italian Republic." In the debate that followed, the members of the Committee welcomed the progress made in the drafting of the draft Treaty amending the EU Treaty and the Treaty establishing the European Community, and expressed the hope that its ratification would take place. However, some broader issues have also been addressed, such as the relationship between [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] to the Presidents of the European Council and to the Presidents of the Commission, the importance of mentioning the non-governmental nature of the common foreign and security policy in the Reform Treaty and the consequences of repealing the provision on the primacy of EU law and the substitute reference to the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. Mr Rupel further answered the questions raised. After the discussion, the Committee voted on the amendment tabled on the proposal for the position of the Republic of Slovenia by Matej Lahovnik and did not accept it. Most members of the committee felt that the amendment was not necessary. Following the end of the vote on the amendment, the Committee adopted the following decision: The Committee of the National Foreign Policy Assembly considered the proposal for a position of the Republic of Slovenia on the draft Treaty amending the Treaty on EU and the Treaty establishing the European Community, supporting it and proposing to the National Assembly to adopt it in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Kokalj will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u24	Have a nice hello again. "Europe will not be created in one day and not without opposition, nothing permanent will happen with ease." These are the words of one of the European fathers already quoted today, Robert Schumann, in the book For Europe. His vision 50 years ago was extremely ambitious and has reached its near-realisation right in our time. Our mission is to seek a vision for the next 50 years. As the Treaty of Rome or the Treaties on which the European Union has developed to date was important 50 years ago, it is now an important new treaty that we are discussing today. The Treaty on the Constitution for Europe had a vision based on values such as: greater protection of fundamental human rights, Community symbols, common legal and formal representation of all countries on matters beyond their individual influence and so on. Despite an extremely optimistic tone following the signing of the Treaty of Constitution for Europe in 2004, the idea did not come true. As Schumann pointed out, nothing permanent happens to ease, we are now on a kind of correctional exam, on real ground and moved to a smaller speed. With the proposed reform on the European Union, the direction and objective set out in the 2004 Convention and intergovernmental conference remain the same. However, more effort will have to be made to achieve it, which means that it will have higher value, higher price and greater sustainability. Although the Reform Treaty retains almost everything contained in the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe, in Novi Slovenija we believe that it is a significant loss. Therefore, efforts should be made to ensure that there are as few exceptions as possible, but rather a smaller common denominator should be sought. The solutions to be adopted should in principle be consensual. Only consensus provides a basis that has a more lasting value. Therefore, according to our assessment, the Government's position on the proposal for a reform treaty is appropriate at this time. Although we would like the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the symbols to remain embedded in the text of the Treaty itself, we support the search for the broadest agreement and the avoidance of the different positions of individual Member States. For each community, it is known that it can only work if it agrees with the rules of the game applicable to all, otherwise it must consider whether there is still a need for a community or whose fundamental values all members of the community are still interested in. It is not excluded for any member to decide and leave, but for these others he cannot blackmail or burden in any way. The new Slovenia therefore supports the position drawn up by the Government. However, we expect the Government to explain in the debate its views on some of the issues that may arise in the session itself and are already emerging and are being heard in public through various media. I will only mention three: what is the position of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to the status of the European Central Bank, how we answer the question of the accessibility of studies at Austrian universities for foreign students and how the new Treaty will bring the Council of the European Union to a European Commission meeting on issues of common foreign and security policy. Let me finish. New Slovenia supports the Government's views on these issues, which, according to our assessment, are principled, but which means maintaining the direction adopted when we ratified the Treaty of Constitution for Europe. However, we expect, in today's debate, the answers to the questions raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian People's Party's Group advocates the position that the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe should be amended as little as possible. The National Assembly ratified the Treaty of Constitution for Europe already on 1 January 2005, and the proposed amendments relate to a new form of contract. Among other things, the designation of a contract with the word "constitution" should be rejected, the adoption of one contract to replace the existing one should be set up by an institute of the external minister of the European Union, to which a different title would otherwise apply, and so on. The draft contract also contains some substantive additions, such as the postponement of a double majority vote to 2014, until then the current system of qualified majority will apply. It also includes special guardians in the field of judicial cooperation, in criminal matters for the UK, providing for a greater role for national parliaments in the European legislative process, which is particularly important in our view. Thus, the draft Treaty on Reform extends the deadline within which national parliaments can examine draft legislative texts and submit opinions. The supervisory mechanism would also be strengthened as the Commission would review the draft legislative act, which would be opposed by a simple majority of votes in the national parliaments of the Member States. Thus, the draft Reform Treaty establishes a new general article on the role of national parliaments, which, in our opinion, contributes significantly to respect for democratic principles. Slovenia has already participated in consultations under the German Presidency of the Council of the EU in preparation for an intergovernmental conference. Our positions remained the same as at the Intergovernmental Conference and the European Council of June this year. In particular, we have advocated that the Charter of Fundamental Rights should acquire a legally binding nature by means of a new treaty. We also agree with this in the SLS Group, and in particular stress the importance of respect for cultural and linguistic diversity within the European Union. Finally, dialogue between different cultures is also one of the fundamental directions of our upcoming EU Presidency. As I have already pointed out at the outset, Members of the SLS Group agree with the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the draft treaty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Matej Lahovnik will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Dear Members, Members, Mr President! In the Parliamentary Group, we really support the position of the Republic of Slovenia towards a draft treaty that changes the image of the European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community. However, it is true that, with our amendment to the third indent of paragraph 1 of the proposal for a position of the Republic of Slovenia, we have also wished to add to the draft text that the Republic of Slovenia should endeavour to ensure that the intergovernmental conference of the legal text of the new treaty amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community does not extend it through any new proposals or requirements which are not part of the political agreement reached on the European Council in June 2007. In accordance with our proposal, the Republic of Slovenia should endeavour to ensure that the protocols to be submitted to the Treaty on European Union and to the functioning of the Union are not supplemented by any new so-called "opt out" reservations of individual Member States and that the declarations contained in the Final Document or the Declaration on the provisions of the Treaties do not become part of the text of the new Treaty amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community. Indeed, in the Group of Members, we really believe that the European Union needs a new treaty to ensure more effective functioning of greater transparency and convergence for its citizens. Despite the fact that such an order has already been drawn up, it has been adopted at an intergovernmental conference, the signing of ratification, and the treaty should somehow enter into force before the elections to the European Parliament in 2009, we believe that the Republic of Slovenia must not agree to blackmail individual Member States at the October Intergovernmental Conference because of that timetable or haste. In this regard, we have warned, and we also note today the statement made by one of the European Union's founding fathers, Robert Schumann, who has already been quoted here today, which says somehow, "Europe will not be created in one day and not without opposition". Just as the future Presidency of the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia must strive to place the Member States of common European interest above their national interests, in some cases even in the interests of individual political elites, which are used for daily political needs. We have a whole bunch of such cases, similar cases are mainly at the last moment or requirements appear on the part of Poland, where, for example, the Polish Minister for Foreign Affairs has justified why Poland insists on requesting a permanent Advocate General in the Court of Justice of the European Community, which would require amendments to the Statute of the Luxembourg institution with an argument that Poland has the greatest right to this position as a dog to bone. Such views that appear are unacceptable. Such views harm the common European idea and put the interests of individual Member States ahead of the interests of the European Union. There's still a whole bunch of cases like this. Some Member States will be faced with elections and us in November, we believe, with reasonable reason, that they will use this to make additional demands, additional exceptions that they place in a better position than other Member States, including Slovenia. Therefore, we believe that the rejection of these so-called "opt-out" exceptions or the specific unilateral statements made by individual Member States at the October Intergovernmental Conference would not constitute any harm to coordination in the new Treaty. In this case, discussions on outstanding political issues would continue at the December summit in Brussels. I must be honest that, in some way, I am also concerned by the statement by European Commission President Jose Manuele Barroso, who said that such concessions granted to individual Member States are usually the largest such as England and the United Kingdom and Poland, that this does not concern him, that they are still better than placing these concessions on a smaller common denominator. All these exceptions are detrimental to the common European idea, harming joint efforts, by actually putting common European interests on the individual partial interests of some Member States that are blackmailing their position. That is why we wanted to make the Government more committed with this amendment in order to do so. He claims that somehow the government has also stressed that this is its basic starting point. That is why we have supported this position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, we want to make it clear that we actually expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to have a very clear position on these "opt-out" exceptions and that it will not allow individual Member States to obtain certain unilateral concessions or that it will endeavour not to do so. This seems particularly important to us because Slovenia is the member of the European Union, who will be the next president and, in some way, also at the symbolic level, Slovenia's position is significant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, government representatives, colleagues, colleagues! Europe is better at two speeds than Europe at no speed. This is not Robert Schuman's words, which we have heard quite a bit, but this is what we have discussed and agreed on in the Slovenian National Party and is related to one of the two problems that are still open at the time of the treatment before the Reform Treaty. But let us go in kind and slowly, for today’s extraordinary session is not meant for us to be sure, perhaps even for many who cannot know the matter at the expense of another work, but for the people. Let us begin by giving great respect to the President of the Committee on European Affairs, who has also put to the vote the law on cooperation between the government and parliament, this is an opportunity. Yesterday's meeting, given that today's meeting is also public, the Committee on European Affairs should be public. The President gave this opportunity, colleagues and colleagues opposed. Or is it true, as one of the Italian MEPs said, that the new constitution works behind people's back. It is intended, we are talking about the constitution, even if the constitutional categories are exempt, colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about a constitution binding on 27 Member States and 700 million and several others. Thank God the government has withdrawn the "Internet" code and we're talking to people today. People need to know that this is no longer a constitutional treaty, but it is a reform treaty. That it is no longer a constitutional treaty and is not constitutionally valid is the essence of the problem under this Reform Treaty. What's the difference? There are many of them, and you probably already know them, but the important thing is that they do not have a constitutional character. The reference to constitutionality has been removed, symbols removed. And now we can go back to Robert Schumann, who said, "Nothing is without people and nothing is forever without institutions." And what kind of institution is it that doesn't have a constitution that doesn't have symbols that don't have laws, but has a dictatorship that she used to have. For all of us and the people, but good. 27 countries live along the river: "If you want to join to the club, you have to respect the rules." [["If you join the club, you have to follow the rules."]] Of course, how strong these rules are. 98% of it's already been agreed. You're staying 2%. These 2% are supposed to be discussed and tried to reach agreement at the informal summit in Lisbon on 18 and 19 October. And what are these questions? Let's be very specific. The first question is Poland. The Joann clause, therefore, is a proposal for a double majority vote. The clear position of the Slovenian National Party is to prevent, underline, the intention of Poland to prevent Joanna from entering the regular part of the Reform Treaty. Not in the regular part of the Reform Treaty, but it can become a rule that is sometimes useful. Not in the regular part of the contract. That is why I am calling on the Government once again to speak about the fact that the European Union, Poland, is clearly communicating that individual countries cannot constantly blackmail themselves with such and other proposals that are not, I stress, not in the interest of the community. And also, dear colleagues, friends from Poland will have to realize once that they can go theirs, I will call it a selfless avant-garde towards the greater prosperity of their nations directed towards Europe so that we can go without them, and return to what I started, a better Europe of two speeds than Europe of no speed. And another problem we haven't heard from today. It is true that I was pleased when I received the communication that yesterday, with 378 votes in favour and 154 against and 109 abstentions, the proposal for a new European Parliament election seat was endorsed by two Lamassoure and Severin rapporteurs and that Slovenia should have 8 Members after this proposal. That's what I'm happy for. One more. However, this proposal from the European Parliament will also be sent to the Council of the European Union. And I hope that this position will be strongly defended by the Government, because, I don't know, you know, respected neighbours, Italians, and they strongly oppose this proposal because they have 72 Members, but they have one less, that is to say, the one that is Slovenian. That's the kind of thing you have to say sometimes. The next question that is heard and read in newspapers, so-called "opt-out" or exempt. This is a wonderful thing to be decided by the Government itself, but we believe that the Government must be very restrictive. "Opt-out" or the exception is very wonderful. We are acting by the rules, but if something is wrong with us, we have the right to the so-called exception or the "opt-out" and we will change things a little bit. But we don't all have this opt-out. Only some dedicated in the European Union. Those who are strong, those who can lobby. I don't know. Either we go to the same game with the Slovenians and have the right to an exemption or we rule it out, which is best. Let's get her out of the game. There's no exception. The rules of the game are the same for everyone. An example of this, though someone will say that this is not true, but it is, is a transitional period for the workforce. It's one form of opt-out. One of them invents a transitional period, and we don't take the Slovenians to work for seven years. Of course, Slovenians cannot afford to do this or not, we are forbidden, and we import foreign labour. It is right if we need it to be imported, but if we do not need it, we will not import it, the Slovaks and the Romanians in construction. But we have to. That's the difference. Some people enjoy the so-called "opt-out", the exception, but we can't afford it. Of course you have to adopt some rules of the game, really. It is true that the Slovenian National Party in 2005 alone opposed the rapid adoption of the Constitutional Treaty, with great desire to wait to see what will happen. And it was what we said -- enthusiasm, I think 21 members, you can fix me if I'm wrong, but one of them has ruined all the dominoes. 1.1.2009 is to deposit all Member States, 27 of which are to be ratified by the Reform Treaty in Rome. And already today, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party for the Magnography, I say that this will not be the case. It won't, because it's going to happen 'a Poland' that won't do it. And where are we going again? Slovenians among the first to raise hands, yes, bravo, we are in, because we have to respect the rules of the game, because it is also true that we have to, but someone will invent them, and we will not. And we will always be those who will not, for the first time, when we will raise our voices and say, like this, or we will not say yes, and for the second time, why we must always be among the first. It's right and fair. I admit all the effort to the Foreign Ministry and, above all, to the Secretary of State that they are doing a lot of work, they know a lot, and they are doing a lot of work. And Slovenia has achieved huge success in Europe. We lack nothing but perseverance and perseverance. And we can't just take something like that. I'm afraid that this 2% will actually be exactly what respected colleagues from Poland want. That's exactly what it's gonna be. And they made five demands, of course two or three of them willing to step down, but Joanna wants to. Of course, I would like to stress once again whether or if the Slovenian Government confirms that Joanna will enter into the contract, then we have cloned again. The ratification process is long and will be long: implementation of the contract, acceptance of the contract, ratification, depositing and so on. I hope and wish that agreements will be reached on open and unresolved issues. I hope and wish that the areas that have remained open and that do not follow the constitution, I say the European Constitution, which we have gladly endorsed, once again, the constitutional reference has been removed, the function of the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been removed, European legislation will still be made up of regulations and directives, not from laws and framework laws. These are important elements in one common country we live in. To live, you know, where you just have to respect the rules of the game, and when you make the rules of the game you can't participate, it's not easy and it's not nice and it's not fair. In the Slovenian National Party, we will, for the first time for the reasons listed, because of the uncertainties that are still open, we will, for the first time, oppose the views of the Government. Because we're waiting and we're careful. However, we want and, of course, we will respect that 1.1.2009 will happen. If there is not, I hope and I wish, despite the fact that there will be a parliamentary election in between, that we will then remember in the third time how quickly, how quickly, how secretly we are deciding on important content. Nevertheless, thank you once again to all those who have participated, including the staff who are in Brussels, which we do not really know, who we have sent, who have been excellent professional colleagues, are working and good, and thanks to them we Members who should know the most about this, we know something, to those who are sending us materials. But if I look, and we're honest, to be informed in good time and time, let's be honest, in one week we had to look at the "stretch" that I have on a table that is so fat, and I admit that I couldn't if I didn't have colleagues and colleagues working abroad who were monitoring and helping me, but if I didn't take a lot of time to read and read short notes at all. It's not working, ladies and gentlemen, so fast and so thoughtful, really not.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u31	Thank you. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u32	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished Minister, Secretary of State, other representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! A new political debate on the future treaty begins with the draft reform treaty that we are considering today in the National Assembly. We have before us the full text of the Treaty amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community, including the Protocols and Declarations of the Final Charter. The text of the draft treaty will be proposed at the Intergovernmental Conference of Ministers for Foreign Affairs and adopted at the level of Heads of State in Lisbon. The true experts of the European Union have drawn up a legally refined text, which has already been written in the original Treaty, taking into account the strictly defined mandate of the European Council as defined in the text of the Berlin Declaration, which sets out how it is necessary to define the future programming document for the future of the European Union. In the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Treaty amending the Treaty on European Union into a Treaty establishing the European Community is a treaty but not an important substantive change in the field of policy, since the fundamental changes follow the innovations of the Treaty of the European Union. However, in our view, such an attitude expresses considerable optimism, which we want to share with the Government on our own. There is a danger that the already outlined order of steps towards a contract that is to be signed in the coming months is not so simple, especially since both in our foreign press and abroad we can understand the dissatisfaction with the solutions. The solutions are particularly dissatisfaction in Poland, in the UK, and they also have a skeptical relationship in France, Denmark and the Netherlands. Only the fact that the Treaty has ratified 18 countries so far can help, but there is no guarantee that the procedures for adopting the draft Treaty or its subsequent ratification will proceed smoothly. While we support the basic solutions relating to the establishment of a single legal entity of the European Union in the parliamentary group, we agree with the abolition of its three-pillar structure. We are pleased about the legal validity of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, although it will withdraw from the text of the new text. We also agree with the maintenance of the current way of naming legal acts. The new designation of the representative of the European Union for foreign affairs is a rhetorical intervention for us, which should reflect the image that the European Union is composed of members who set up policies, not that the Commission itself creates foreign policy. We are convinced that the abandonment of the name of the Constitution and the removal of symbols only make it a declaration that there are significant changes to the act that we are considering today, and in fact in the new legal package we are offering old content in such a way as to avoid the expression of the will of the people in the referendum as regards the adoption or non-admission of the said document. We fear that the people are alienated from real power and that they want to make decisions on its behalf primarily by representatives of the European political elite who are skeptical of their population or the conduct of their electoral body. Many compromise solutions in the draft treaty speak of some being more alike than others. In the parliamentary group, we are convinced that despite the pragmatism shown by the leaders in Brussels, there is no way that we can build a community of equal members in a way that allows some members to recognise certain exceptions in advance, but when a Member makes critical remarks to such a situation, the European press regrets that such a member has even been accepted by one another. The solutions to the draft treaty should be aimed at ensuring the basic idea of creating a European community as a creation that ensures social peace, social stability and social justice, but not at replacing, under the cover of globalisation, the social dimensions of Europe with neo-liberalist concepts that try to shape any birth of life, as we all know from the former Yugoslavia. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are pleased to note that the Treaty on Article 1 at the time of the introduction of the new Article defined that the Union respects and does not affect the status enjoyed by the church or religious associations or communities in the Member States under national law. The provision is important because it does not require Member States to apply a common European concept, but agrees that the Member States are autonomous in regulating this area and agrees that it will respect those solutions as such. Finally, I would like to point out that we feel that the text from a nomo technical point of view is rather unfortunate and inappropriate. Obviously, the drafting of the articles on mechanical transposition in the basic text is not to take into account the established nomotechnical practice covered by the guidelines and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It is not clear to the sending group what legal weight the provision which, in one case, refers to the abolition and in the other, to the deletion of a certain article. Nevertheless, we will support the draft treaty, as we are aware that it is only the first steps in the process of finalising the contract or that the final word will be given when we have a repeat ratification of the amended document in the National Assembly. In this context, we support the proposed solution, and we expect the Government to insist on the agreement reached on the content and will not give in to individual countries trying at the last minute or to delay the adoption of this document or to modify and re-form its content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for views on the Reform Treaty. The draft position of the Republic of Slovenia on the draft Reform Treaty, which will be the basis for the successful functioning of the enlargement and development of the European Union, is adopted at a time when we already feel the positive effects of membership in the European Union, which are reflected in large economic growth and membership in the euro area. Under the influence of the wider democratic environment, however, the influence of dogmatic structures in Slovenia is gradually being dismantled. The ideas of a united Europe were once just a dream of philosophers and visionaries. Viktor Hugo was already inspired by the humanistic ideals of dreaming about the united countries of Europe. Today, Europe is a united reality, a result of the hard and long-lasting work of many people who have sought a united Europe. The European Union is the answer, an agreement between sovereign nations that have decided to share a common destiny and combine their efforts for joint success. Although the Constitutional Treaty for Europe has been ratified by more than half of the Member States of the European Union, the Constitutional Treaty has not been able to obtain uniform support. Following the failed referendums in France and the Netherlands, Europe has felt a lot of scepticism as to whether Europe is even capable of drawing up a common document representing the new, common foundations of a united Europe. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that it seemed a year ago that the European Union would only have had a difficult time digging out of the crisis, but there have been significant political changes in Europe at that time, which have enabled it to successfully continue to draw up an appropriate document that will enable Europe to act effectively and transparently. Germany has provided Europe with new and necessary incentives for further cooperation in the role of the Presidency and with the new Chancellor Angela Merkel. The German Presidency of the Council of the European Union was able to set up a mandate to convene an intergovernmental conference on Union reform, which is now successfully led by the Portuguese Presidency, and last but not least, changes at the summit in France and the United Kingdom have contributed to the further strengthening of the European integration process, as the arrival of new leaders has allowed these countries to be freed from the commitments of previous leaders to the adoption of Europe's future regulation. Although the Republic of Slovenia was among the first Member States to ratify the Constitutional Treaty, we were in the Slovenian Democratic Party, on the basis of a real assessment of the situation in Europe among those who began to quickly look after new ones for all acceptable solutions. We are pleased that both our policy and our diplomacy were among the more active and did not have exclusive solutions, thus helping us today to have a draft that we hope will be acceptable to all European countries. In the fact that the European Union has grown to 27 in the meantime, such a document for an effective European Union is all the more necessary. The draft Reform Treaty, prepared by a team of experts, which was co-sponsored by representatives of all Member States for two months, represents an important achievement. With the adoption or ratification of the Reform Treaty by all 27 Member States, all three treaties, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty establishing the European Community, which will be referred to as the new Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, will remain in force. In the SDS, we are pleased with the work of the Intergovernmental Conference, as the Reform Treaty preserves the essential components of the Treaty for the European Constitution: inter alia, the legally binding nature of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the uniform legal personality of the European Union and the administration of the three-pillar structure, the maintenance of institutional balance in a broader sense and the reference to cultural and linguistic diversity. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that an enlarged Europe needs clearly-written objectives, values, principles and rules, and that the adoption of a reform treaty is also crucial for the further development of the Union. The Reform Treaty preserves the values and principles that show that the European continent wants to remain open to knowledge, culture, social progress, wants to deepen democracy and continue to pursue peace, justice and solidarity with the world. In the SDS, we agree that as many solutions as possible must be retained under the Treaty on the Constitution on Europe, which has also been a success for the Portuguese Presidency in bringing the draft treaty into force. Let me comment on some of the key changes made by the Reform Treaty. For let go, first of all, the term of the contract with the word 'constitution'. Such a compromise is acceptable to the SDS, as we are aware of the reality that the designation of a treaty with the name "constitution" is not acceptable to all members, especially the UK, which does not have its own constitution and believes that such designation would result in an excessive interference with its sovereignty. Secondly, the Charter of Fundamental Rights receives a legally binding nature despite the fact that it will not be an integral part of the Treaty. In the SDS, we are pleased that the members have agreed on the legally binding nature of the Charter, as the Union is based on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom and democracy, equality of the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of members of minorities. These values are common to all Member States in a society characterized by pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity, equality between women and men. All these values must not be questioned because human rights are the bearer of every modern democratic society. Thirdly, national parliaments will have a greater role to play in the field of subsidiarity and legislation through the Reform Treaty. In the SDS, we are confident that the strengthened role of national parliaments will strengthen and reform the democratic structure of Europe, and greater involvement of national parliaments also means greater impact and greater visibility for European issues in national political debates. Finally, with greater involvement in European Union affairs, national parliaments will now be able to contribute actively to the good functioning of the Union. Fourthly, a new reference is added to the principle of solidarity between Member States in the field of energy and climate change, without the allocation of new powers to the Union. The abolition of the three-pillar structure, taking into account the intergovernmental nature of the area of the common foreign and security policy, also goes in the right direction, establishing the role of the Foreign Minister under the name 'High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy'. At the same time, by a new solution, the establishment of the External Action Service does not affect the competence of the Member States, as is currently the case with regard to the design and implementation of their foreign policy, nor with regard to their national representations in third countries and international organisations. A two-and-a-half-year term of office of Permanent President of the European Council is also being established, which we believe will produce good results. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that the Reform Treaty is one of the necessary, but not the only, condition for the European perspective of the Western Balkan countries and beyond, as these countries will have to meet the conditions in the process of approximation and, we can say, in a loud voice, also respect European values and agreed agreements. We hope that the neighbouring Croatia is also aware of this. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are also convinced that Slovenian policy must continue the process of adopting the Reform Treaty, as it has done so far, to make as few exceptions as possible, since it will be possible to prevent the emergence of a two-speed Europe. We therefore stress in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the reform treaty project must be brought to a safe port. This ensures the best prosperity of Slovenia in the future and the opportunity for a united Europe from the Atlantic to the Ural below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u35	Thank you. Mag. Milan M. Cwickl will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u36	Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and now not citizens of the European Union. The whole idea of the European Union is based on the rule of law, which means that its functioning stems from contracts freely and democratically agreed by all Member States. Today we are talking about the text of such a reform treaty. Undoubtedly, the history of the last five decades has witnessed the success of the United Europe project, first in the European Community of six founding members and later in the European Union of fifteen and more countries. All these forms have been able to consolidate a political system based on the principles of freedom, pluralism, social well-being and tolerance. The Treaty on the Constitution for Europe was designed to enable 27 Member States to now face the challenges of a democratic, open and efficient Europe, bringing together half a billion people and serving all those who live in it and not just those who work in European institutions. The Treaty on the Constitution for Europe was also adopted at the level of the Heads of State and Government to open the door to further EU solutions, particularly the EU's round-up to Southeast Europe. In Slovenia, we adopted the Treaty of Constitution for Europe by ratifying the 6th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly on 1 February 2005. At the time we were united that the Treaty of Constitution for Europe meant a historic opportunity based on Slovenia's membership in, for us, the most important political and economic integration in the world. In the period following our ratification and until this year, it appears that Member States are only not as united as they may wish to show themselves outwardly in relation to the further development of the EU. In Slovenia, we are in the National Assembly, a text that for most of the citizens of the two founding members was not acceptable at all, ratified already as a third country. The legitimate question is why we were then rushing to ratify the Treaty of Constitution for Europe. The proposal, to remind me, was tabled in the procedure on New Year's parliamentary holidays and dealt with in good two weeks without much discussion with citizens and citizens. The lack of this debate has proved fatal at European Union level. Following the rejection of the European Constitution in the Netherlands and France in 2005 and after two years of reflection, EU leaders should agree on the mandate of a new intergovernmental conference on 23 June 2007. I'm just saying, we're supposed to make a deal. Did they really make a deal, we'll see next week. The June 2007 agreement was the result of a self-sacrificing policy of the German Presidency, which is now being followed by Portuguese. We want the adoption of a reform treaty to be completed during the Portuguese Presidency this fall at an intergovernmental conference. The question is, also in view of yesterday's debate at otherwise closed meetings, whether the Slovenian Presidency is prepared to conclude similar compromises, as was the case in June during the German Presidency and as possible next week during the Portuguese Presidency. More and more open questions are raised every day by the growing number of Member States. United Kingdom, Ireland, Poland, Bulgaria, Italy. At the same time, problems are already being predicted with the ratification process across Member States if, according to an optimistic scenario, everything is really going to be up next week. The Group of Social Democrats, as an unrelenting and co-responsible partner in the formation of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia to represent the interests of the Republic of Slovenia in the bodies of the European Union, supports every effort to ensure that the Reform Treaty is adopted. We estimate that the amendments that now distinguish the Reform Treaty and the Treaty of Constitution for Europe are, however, still acceptable. This is also because Slovenia has already agreed to a number of substantive provisions of this Reform Treaty at the time of entry into the European Union during the current intergovernmental conference. Moreover, some provisions in the Reform Treaty are very welcome because of the reduction of the democratic deficit to reduce the gap between citizens and their mandate holders. Thus, for the National Assembly and for the Republic of Slovenia, it is most important to strengthen the role of national parliaments by means of the Reform Treaty in order to extend the coordination period. With this, we will be Members and Members of Parliament who can better influence our representatives, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in representing our interests in the institutions of the European Union. It is worth noting that I have not heard today that the European Council, in its various emerging forms, will now operate in open sessions in the adoption of legislative acts, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will have to work as well. I will not go into some other comparisons of the Reform Treaty compared to the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe, but we do have a merger of two legal persons, and the Constitution is no longer, nor is the Minister for Foreign Affairs. However, we will have a new permanent President of the European Council with a two-and-a-half-year mandate, which can be renewed once and for all. European legislation will continue to be based on regulations and directives, and last but not least, I stress that the Charter of Fundamental Rights as such will not be included in the Treaty, but that it should contain a reference and the Charter should be signed before the treaty reform is signed in the light of yesterday's positions. What if the Charter of Fundamental Rights is not signed before the Reform Treaty? So it's a lot more, it's a lot bigger difference than the famous 4% points of the text. It is more than what the President of the Government said that there are no symbols, that there is no constitution, that there is no foreign minister anymore, and so on. A particular problem will be that it is not a substantively uniform document and that is why this reform treaty will be subject to great interpretations; it has been written by lawyers, politicians have not even looked at it well and it is intended to deserve our support. How many of you in the government, how many of us in the National Assembly, with the exception of professional services, have seriously examined this document? This is our new Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and it speaks about how we enforce Article 3a of the Slovenian Constitution. I say this because somehow on the June Council, the question of what will happen to the symbols fly away. Will we still use these symbols in Slovenia, will the blue rectangular piece of goods with 12 stars still hang here? It's not a flag anymore. If it is clear that the common foreign and security policy preserves a multi-government character and instead we will have only one High Representative of the European Union for Foreign and Security Policy, this is not so clear on a number of issues. Yesterday was the debate on who is the legal successor of the famous Committee on General and Foreign Affairs - the Committee on Foreign Affairs or the Committee on General Affairs? Who will coordinate the European Council? I would like to point out that the interpretation of this text will be as diverse as lawyers from individual countries will see it. How's it going? If the Reform Treaty is adopted and ratified, it is considered that the process of deepening and rounding up the European Union can continue. That is why we support the Reform Treaty. With regard to the deepening of the European Union, the role of national and European Parliaments will be particularly important and can be well established. In rounding, however, it should be important that Slovenia, together with the European Commissioner, play an important role in the process of further enlargement of the European Union during our presidency, if adopted. European policy will be important. Even in connection with what Nicolas Sarkozy has already announced regarding ideas about the Mediterranean Union. Energy security will be important, and joint fire protections and more will be important. Finally, intercultural dialogue will be important. But among all these topics, the most important thing for Slovenia should be the continuation of enlargement and the creation of appropriate neighbourly relations. In this regard, would it be appropriate to propose that, gradually, with a few years of delay, however, all six Western Balkan countries, i.e. the former Yugoslavia - minus Slovenia, plus Albania - should join the European Union? On the European Union's side, it will provide the financial part needed for this enlargement sometime in 2010 during the preparation of the budget 2014-2020. If we are still talking about deepening, it will be very important how individual governments, including ours, will achieve the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy. These objectives are not yet sufficiently supported by the budgets presented today. Let me just illustrate it with just one number. It is particularly critical to invest in research and development, because the European Commission also tells us that it is right that we have a target of 1.3% of GDP in public funds. However, in the 2009 budget, as has been said, we are targeting the fights 0.8% of gross domestic product. Finally, it will be important to deepen the fact that we will, in the National Assembly, adopt a law which you rejected at the previous meeting, opening closed meetings of the Committee on European Union Affairs when we consider legislative acts when we consider positions on legislative issues, issues of government at European Council meetings. The role of coordination at national level will need to be strengthened. The Treaty on the Constitution for Europe mentioned the important password of the European Union: united in diversity, "Unity and Diversity". The Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe was signed in 2004. This particular slogan means that, with the European Union, its citizens, who are now not its citizens, are united in a common effort for peace and prosperity and that many different cultures, customs and languages in Europe are a priority and not a weakness for this continent. Will we be able to maintain this association in diversity in the future? That'll tell time. It's the responsibility of all of us. In order to allow this to happen, we will support the proposed position of the Republic of Slovenia in the Group of Social Democrats. But if it gets complicated next week, then let the government use what the law says - let the government establish contact with the competent committee of the National Assembly and, as in June 2004, confirm, if necessary, its views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I invite Ambassador Mitjo Slavinca to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! In opening, let me say that at the LDS Club we regret that the Constitutional Treaty on the European Union has not been ratified in all European countries and that we therefore have a document back on the table, which we have already discussed in fact, that we are discussing again something that has already been behind us. The regret is even greater, as we estimate that the previous Constitutional Treaty, despite its shortcomings, was a better document, although it was too extensive. That, however, it was a more integrated document, which also gave the European Union a better perspective, not least with more effective integration opportunities and processes. We also regret this, and there has already been a talk today that the treatments on the home work bodies have been carried out behind closed doors. In fact, there was little time for this meeting today to be held behind closed doors so that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia would not hear a debate on the future of our common integration, our common great country. On the other hand, that irony will be so much greater, and all the documents I am discussing have been published on the European Union websites for some time and, despite the fact that the documents were public, we had closed meetings of working bodies yesterday. This is certainly not in terms of what the documents foresee in one place, i.e. the greater role of the national parliaments, as enshrined in the Treaty and the Protocol to the Treaty, and also the desire for greater democracy in the European Union. Now, let us leave this, let us hope that the Government will draw up a law as soon as possible, or a coalition that has not been approved at the previous meeting, which will allow or perhaps - better said - even prescribe that matters related to the European Union be discussed in open meetings. When the motioner is someone else, not the opposition, then the law will probably be easier to adopt. We further assess that European leaders have not learned much from the mistakes made in the drafting of a constitutional treaty, for which, first in the Netherlands and then in France, citizens and citizens have strongly opposed. Unfortunately, there is a high likelihood that some Member States will try to negotiate better positions at the intergovernmental conference following, despite a clearly defined mandate, even through some blackmail, and that the ratification process of the new treaty will be delayed again. Last but not least, there is even talk of referendums in some countries. There was also a lack of awareness in the process of the adoption of the treaty itself, a lack of awareness that what is good for the European Union must be put at the forefront of what is good for the citizens of the European Union and what is important and in which direction the further political integration of the Union should also go. All too often, negotiations have turned into the exercise of the partial interests of individual members of the European Union. The questions raised in the wake of the last painful steps of the European Union or the Member States to finally adopt a new treaty, which is necessary in the light of recent and future enlargements, and which will pave the way for the European Union to continue to develop and to ensure that the European Union becomes a global actor in both economic and political terms, and this question is then raised as to whether we really have a reform treaty, since in some key areas we can see, in comparison to the previous Constitutional Treaty, that it is essentially a step back, that regret is not - as the Prime Minister said in the introduction - a step forward, but a step back in view of the constitutional treaty, which was in some way a step forward. Many key and important content remains unclear for the EU's functioning, and particularly for institutional reform. Let's take a look at some of these questions. The first is certainly the issue of a further EU solution and where the EU's external borders should go. Currently we have the status of candidate Turkey, Croatia and Macedonia, and of course all other Western Balkan countries are preparing: Bosnia, Serbia, Montenegro, Albania. But what is important in further enlargement is that the answer to how further enlargement will take place should be made clear and unambiguous and rules should then be laid down and those rules should apply equally to all countries wishing to join the EU. These rules must not lower already adopted standards and levels that had to be provided by countries that had already joined the EU, so of course Slovenia. The next question is the question of institutional reform, namely the vote in the EU Council, the number of European Commissioners, the division between Member States, we currently have 27, and less likely to be, the role of the European Parliament - here is now the maximum number of Members 750 - and the European Commission and after the new President of the European Council. Our assessment at the LDS is that the new contract does not provide a sufficiently transparent method of decision-making. On the one hand, it is necessary to ensure the equal representation of all Member States in the Commissioners, i.e. in the Commission, and, on the other hand, it is necessary to ensure operational capacity and smooth functioning, the operationality of the Commission, and to avoid such cases as have occurred at the time of Romania and Bulgaria's entry, when it is necessary to literally create two new areas in which the new Commissioners should work. The solution is certainly more, the half number of ministers or commissioners and each other's mandate is the country's turn to propose it, or any other one, but, as it is said, it is necessary to find such a solution that will maintain the uniform representation of all countries, equality - last but not least, it is also of great symbolic importance - and, on the other hand, it will ensure the operation of the Commission. The primacy of European Union law has so far been a rule, and it is now becoming questionable to some. And surely, if we want to live in one community, it is necessary to decide that certain competences, that is to say that a certain part of sovereignty, must be passed on and that what is common, then these laws have priority and are applicable to national laws. The role of the President of the European Council is certainly the following question, and in particular the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, the uncontested Foreign Minister of the European Union, whom we will not have in this form now, and what this means. In this way, the integrity of the European Union as a whole in cooperation with third countries in the global political arena is undermined. There is no representative of the European Union who will be able to represent it in front of third countries. The greater role of national parliaments - this is certainly an important objective for the European Parliament to also play a greater role in national parliaments. This certainly points out, but unfortunately it turns out that in practice things do not always work exactly as well, either it is too slow to communicate and send materials, documents from the European Parliament to national parliaments, or the problem is the specifics of individual parliaments. In our case, the problem is certainly that, despite many attempts, public work in the field of the European Union is still not guaranteed. However, in order to make this contradiction even greater, the Council of Ministers is now opening, the Council of Ministers will meet in public and will be able, through the European institutions of our citizens and citizens, to learn what and how our government has decided. Again, an additional argument that there is really no reason for us to discuss something here in closed sessions, which will be presented to the general European public in two, three days. The requirements of the Republic of Slovenia are to be welcomed, for example, by obtaining the Charter of Fundamental Rights with the new Treaty of Legal validity. However, following the example of some other members of the European Union, it would certainly be a priority to give priority to those areas where further development of the European Union would be contributed in a way that would also provide an over-average benefit to Slovenia. Some others were able to make very good use of this. And at least what Slovenia could have done in this process if we had failed to obtain exceptions, which we had heard before, to oppose these exceptions to others that other countries have, in order to be against exceptions, against the privileged value of certain members of the European Union over others, including Slovenia, which it does not have. At the same time, there is also concern expressed by Commission President Barroso that, if adopted, the reform treaty will reduce the power of the Commission and that Member States can walk both the European Parliament and the European Commission and take decisions only on a bilateral basis, only on their own. With the further development of the European Union, it is important to ensure a greater degree of integration. Economic integration is on track, and, last but not least, it is almost already completed in political integration, and the question remains whether Member States are willing to give up certain sovereignty at the expense of making the common country more operational, more successful and even stronger in the global area. If the European Union is to be a leading player in the global market and in the global political space, all its members will play such a role, the Republic of Slovenia will also play such a role. Of course, that remains a concern. Last but not least because of experience with our previous common country, which is worth taking advantage of, which is considered to be our advantage, as an experience that other Member States do not have. The documents we are talking about today offer less than we could have expected, but we will not oppose them in the LDS. We estimate that, nevertheless, they offer the possibility of further development, and yet, if they are accepted, we will improve the matter further and Slovenia will find its place in the European Union, of course, with the skilled management of our further policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. My word, Mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. The debate has repeatedly highlighted what is really bringing us together. Actually, it's different. This endless and comprehensive emphasis on this diversity, not the emphasis on community, unity, what connects us, which has in fact led in some way to what we now have in Europe - too much emphasis on diversity. Tell me one connecting element that has been established in the European Union, which is valid for a country and which is valid for citizens - what each individual could support and would be strong. The attempt was in the Constitutional Treaty. An attempt to set fundamental values, uniform symbols, and more. What's left now? It's just the will and probably some benefit and what I mentioned at the outset that we're all united in that we're all different. What is this, in fact - this is a floscule, this is a fog that we're having a hard time selling. Probably behind some desire, let us allow diversity, let us not let this be some kind of tyranny, that these are the bonds that bind both European countries and citizens, but nothing in common that we would have. That's a bad forecast. And in a way, these are cut roots. On what, in fact, this Europe should be based - but on common values, on a single civil, cultural and other space! We have to bet on that. And on the basis of this, of course, other things, such as symbols and the like, become interesting and important. That's what could connect us. In the end, only possible benefits and money will really link us. That's what's worrying. Because if there are no benefits due to perhaps no good economic developments, there will, of course, be a quick way into some decomposition - since we have already lived in such a country or a country where there are no connecting elements, where there has been nothing but usefulness. But when there was no more usefulness, everything collapsed into dust. So how important is this common integration policy, and how important it is for us to stay together. Valuable. I also wanted to stress this when they asked primary school students what their greatest value was, they replied - watch out - money. That's what connects. This can also be the result of this and these messages on diversity. What, though, remains in the end? And if the European Union is based on these benefits and only on these benefits, then of course we are not well.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u41	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Ambassador Milenk Ziherl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Today, much has been said about the construction of Europe, and we have heard that this process will be long and that it will have many opponents. Certainly the latest developments are just one of these, I will say, more deadlock points, but we must exert all our energy to move on from this and contribute new elements to the building of Europe. For I would like to draw particular attention to some of the facts that have led us to this process or to what we are losing with every delay, every obstacle that arises on the way to the development of the European Union. We know that the European Union is an area of stability, prosperity, democracy and human rights; therefore, it is worth fighting for, it is worth attracting new Member States, new candidates, in particular because some candidates come from areas or traditions that are very lacking in this area. After that, Slovenia is committed to the integration of the Western Balkan countries. These countries have been through heavy interwars with many victims, and now they need some hope, some new impetus that will lead them out of the crisis, which will build their statehood, which will bring some stability to this area. And stagnation in the prepared foundations of the European Union also means a stalemate when the countries of the Western Balkans are approaching. We know that one must be done with Serbia, and Kosovo will have to be involved in these processes as soon as possible. Just as the Western Balkan countries are approaching and starting to meet the Ocquis Communantaire points, they are beginning to consolidate their homes, in the field in their countries, the democratic forces, which are usually represented by the younger people, who were not present in previous, sometimes very strange regimes, government connections, perhaps partly or entirely guilty of the massacres and crimes that took place in the territory of the former country. Perhaps the experience from Serbia, which I have visited, Serbia has perhaps two faces; the new very pro-European, as shown by the young generation, and the rest of the old forces, who are still searching for some of the connecting elements in the historical frameworks in the distant past, which I think is totally wrong, because we need to look to the future. Such developments place the responsibility before Slovenia to actively engage as the future Presidency, because if we do not get the matter through during the Portuguese Presidency, this can also be passed on to the Slovenian Presidency as a legacy agenda. In order not to talk only about some of the European Union's setbacks, there may be good evidence that the new proposal for the deployment of Members in the European Council shows a trend towards increasing the impact of small countries, our country gets one more Member, from seven to eight Members, but that the number of large countries and Members of large countries is declining, and thus at least at the symbolic level their weight of representation in the European Council. Thus the Italians lose 3 Members - from 75 to 72, the Germans also lose three - from 96 to 93. The activities carried out within the European Union even have a lot of positive results. Perhaps now that winter is approaching, solidarity in the energy field is not as important as some energy policy that will ensure Europe's sustainable supply of energy, but primarily open the door to alternative energy sources, renewable energy sources or more environmentally friendly energy sources, because we have already felt the effects of climate change in our area, and I am not saying that other countries, such as Greece, have suffered from climate change disasters this year. Well, just in case of major natural disasters, it is a major task for the European Union, because it is necessary to develop a system of mutual solidarity, common assistance, in particular opportunities for joint action. There will probably be more to be done in the coming years; for example, Slovenia has symbolically participated in the rescue in Greece with one fire helicopter. If the equipment were standardised, we'd send more crews and rescue with Greek equipment, etc. The adoption of some standards for disaster resolution may also prevent a tragedy in Croatia. Today, we have also talked about the diversity of being rich in diversity. I see this wealth in diversity, because every European nation is ascribed to certain properties and when we link these specific properties together, we get some wealth. Someone's an expert on this. Besides, he's in the middle of nowhere. In his country, there's some kind of ability to do something. Thus, even the joke says that the heavens, if they are mechanics Germans, organizers Swiss, chefs Italians etc., are hell if they are organizers Italians, mechanics Swiss and chefs Germans etc. The desire for the European Union among the candidate countries is very great, so that some cannot even wait for some measures. We can thus see that Montenegro has already introduced the euro, although we are only at the beginning of the signing or ratification of the Treaty of Accession negotiations. Of course, this is a very unilateral measure, because we ourselves have fresh experience with the introduction of the euro, we know how much efforts have been made by the Government, economic operators, the Governor of the Bank, etc. So, Europe will be diverse in its diversity, we will have to realize that what connects us is rich. In particular, it will also be necessary to sharpen the very selfish desires of individual countries that see only their own interests and do not see that they can break or substantially reject the whole project, and are, indirectly, after some time at greater harm if that tiny whim of theirs does not take effect, as if things are letting up and things are moving forward smoothly and the European Union is making progress. In any event, the position of the Republic of Slovenia must be supported and it is hoped that the further development of the European Union will go in the right direction, with even faster progress than the whole and thus for each Member State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u43	Thank you very much. However, I call to the floor the Member of Parliament, Paul Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u44	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, members of the Government and others! In this debate today and in the adoption of the Reform Treaty, I do not actually feel any particular satisfaction, especially because today we are changing something that we have had a year and more, two years ago, so to speak - a constitutional treaty. The fact is that today we will also accept this document, the Reform Treaty, does not mean that there is any guarantee or guarantee that this document will not experience any similar fate or changes that would destroy our work today. The fact is that all that happened after the collapse of the Constitution reflects and reflects what Europe is today and that this document, which we are going to confirm today or the Government's position on this document, is that this document says that this document is no longer a Europe of vision; whereas it is a Europe that wants to expand but to spread without a real vision, and that Europe remains the same as it is, and this is in particular a European coalition, a coalition of countries that are connected in more or less short-term interests and are in fact applying around the common bases and shared resources they have. This Europe has brought a lot of good, but it has not brought what the visionaries wanted and believed; the most good it has brought in the free open economic space, the common currency, freedom of travel and the abolition of borders, which it simultaneously builds with other constraints, such as security. True, we no longer have boundaries that will prevent us from moving, but we do have safety regulations that are sometimes even worse than the worst police officer and customs officer. Of course, at this stop for Europe or under this Treaty for Europe, we had to give up certain things, symbols, some institutions. The fact is, if we give up, if I may say so, of course, we are also comparing what we can most easily give up, and if we draw some domestic experience, which is the easiest thing to give up at home, then it is even easier to give up to the common foreign minister. But we want Europe to have a more common and more vibrant life than its institutions and European governments will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Ferri Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with co-worker and co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The easiest decision at a time or such a decision, whose height we have no other, is a better alternative. And today we are ahead of such a decision. It is true that we are doing some kind of correctional exam, unfortunately not on our own fault, but it is a fact and we are not left with another as if we were to do it. I will therefore also support the views expressed by the Government, including the views that they remain in force by the Intergovernmental Commission, with the aim of continuing to preserve the essential elements of the Constitutional Treaty, which unfortunately was not adopted. In this view, I would like to stress in particular the importance of what some colleagues have already said in the debate and of what we have also discussed on the competent working body last night, that it is imperative that, given the forecast that the opening of the agreed cases or the opening of new issues may occur, the Government insists on this and that it does not allow new issues to actually open or modify agreements with the June Council. We also have the assurance by the most responsible people, including the Foreign Minister, that they will do so. Because if that were to happen, it could jeopardize the expected final agreement. As far as the treaty is concerned, I would like to say this when I compare this with the draft constitutional treaty that was not adopted and when I had the opportunity to participate in the concluding part of the Convention, together with the present foreign minister, the Secretary of State and some other fellow Members of Parliament. This Treaty is indeed less than the European Union and also Slovenia needs to develop more effectively and democratically, but it still represents a great progress in relation to what we have today - I am thinking in particular about the existing treaties and the system in force. And if we did not accept this and remain a status quo, this would certainly be much worse for Europe; not only for possible expansion, but also for efficiency, democracy and the role of the European Union in the world. I am deeply convinced of this and therefore support this, despite some of the shortcomings already mentioned. It seems important to me that the main part of the contract has been preserved, otherwise in some parts in a different form and less transparent. Clearly, some derogations from the text of the Constitutional Treaty were a solution or a price for the whole process of reform of the European Union not to be blocked without stopping. Some of the changes, according to my personal assessment, when I also recall the discussions of representatives of individual countries and parliaments and, in particular, governments in the Convention, are not so many demands of citizens and citizens of the Member States of the European Union, but more of the individual elites, politicians currently in power, the expression of their demands or even the conditions for them to go to the referendum and to predict that this Treaty will also experience the same fate, so that I do not resent or accept this as the fact that it was necessary to go into compromises that have been reached, although I would rather see some texts, some solutions, because they are better, from a constitutional treaty. But this is clearly a European reality. I think it is good that this is, in a way, a fully preserved area of economic policies, even more, energy and the environment are added. This case, in my opinion, predicts that, for what is not yet agreed today, development in the global world in the future will lead us to this - or even more cruelly, force us into greater unity and cooperation in a united Europe. I recall that the challenge - not so long ago, even at the time of the convention - was against energy being a common issue or some areas. But there had to be a crisis that hit the head and then it's ready to change. And it will probably happen in other areas as well. I very much agree with colleagues who have stressed the objectives, the common strategy and the common policy. This seems more important to me than the symbols themselves, except, of course, that opposition to symbols also means, in the background, opposition to common policies and common strategies. This could, however, be fatally dangerous for the future of Europe. In the institutional field, when the institutions of the European Union, the Council, the Commission and Parliament are urgently balanced, it is particularly important - I repeat here with some colleagues, but this is so important that I should not miss it - strengthening the role of the European Parliament and national parliaments. This is a condition for bringing the European Union closer together and its functioning for citizens and citizens, a condition for greater legitimacy and a reduction of the democratic deficit. In this regard, greater openness and public participation in the work of the European Council will also be important, which has already been mentioned. At the same time, we should not overlook the warning we received in a letter addressed by the President of the Union of Free Trade Unions to the President of the National Assembly - that is, his assessment is that he is in a subordinate position or in the background somewhere or that the social partnership is neglected. I don't think that's the case; if it was, it would seem to stand up for it. And I think that understanding here will also be in other countries, because the social partnership was largely not only controversial in theory, but also in practice, practiced both in the European Union institutions and in individual comparable countries. And I'll finish it slowly. We now expect to compromise, however, that the treaty will be signed, preferably by the end of the year, with as few changes as possible, and then, of course, a critical ratification phase. Some warnings have already been given today. When we respond to a proposal for a treaty in the European media, analyses of some institutes, statements by some politicians, there are real risks and risks of ratification in individual countries. That is why I think it would not be too much for us, in this debate, to propose to the Government, in particular, that, in the further part of the Intergovernmental Conference, and in particular in the event of an expected agreement on a treaty, we invite 'colleagues or the leadership of individual countries to act extremely responsibly and sensitively. Because if it really gets stuck and in some cases there will be no ratification, then I'm afraid we won't have a chance for a retrial. And this can be fatal for the role and further development of the European Union, its role in the world and in the extreme, but I am not by nature a great pessimist, I can also question its existence. Just in the end, just two more practical suggestions or two practical suggestions. It has already been warned, and this is very important, of the urgent need, after the Treaty has been adopted by the end of the year and the ratification process has run out, to accelerate preparations for the effective implementation of this Treaty at home; the possibilities give us more than we have had so far and it depends on us very much on how we take advantage of these options, especially the government and Parliament. And lastly, I agree with those who speak of the impreciseness of the text that we now have before us. We also know why it is the way it is, and the Prime Minister of the Government has warned about it. I think that it will be necessary to prepare, as soon as possible after the adoption or signed contract, some kind of integrated text or writing, which will also be necessary for the presentation of the contract to the public and to the public in other countries, so it would be good to get such a copy as soon as possible. It is true that what he said before the recent President of the former convention is true when some have seen that the text of the Constitutional Treaty has been difficult to read or is not sufficiently transparent, which says: but this text will in fact be unreadable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador William Trofenik. [[He's not here.]] The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-workers. I am sure that today, if not unanimously, we will in fact support both the new draft Treaty amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community, as well as the formal position on the draft Treaty drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Although there are many things to be said in both texts, there are many things to ask for or at least expect further explanations and explanations and, of course, to note once again the insufficient involvement and influence of the National Assembly in the preparation and formulation of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia for action at the intergovernmental conference and in other institutions of the European Union. I don't know how this works for others, but I think it's difficult to look at about 300 pages of difficult text in all the other parts of the National Assembly in three days, and it's even more difficult, on the basis of the explanation of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia that we received just two days ago, to create an opinion on whether these changes really mean an improvement in the Constitutional Treaty in what these improvements are and what they actually mean for the situation of Slovenia within the European Union in the future. The views of the Republic of Slovenia, which we are confirming today or are still considering, are very scrupulous. They simply say that Slovenia is committed to the minimumist amendments to the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe, to support the mandate of an intergovernmental conference to ensure the preservation of the essential elements of the Treaty on the Constitution, and that Slovenia seeks to translate the intergovernmental conference into the legal text of the new Treaty into a political agreement reached at the European Council in June 2007. The explanation of these views, which is not at all the explanation, merely lists, or formalistically, the specific changes proposed in relation to the previous Constitutional Treaty. No substantive or value assessments or arguments anywhere. It is not clear whether the situation of Slovenia within the European Union will deteriorate, improve or remain the same as it would be under the Treaty of Constitution for Europe following the ratification of this Reform Treaty. Finally, while it is to a large extent about changes in the constitutional nature and, for example, significant changes in the field of justice and home affairs, the two competent working bodies of the National Assembly have shown no interest in considering these proposed changes in terms of their competences or in terms of their work cycle. Obviously, all this is of little interest to us, obviously we have a bit of a fight to say about all this. I am aware that what we now have in front of us in the form of a reform treaty is probably the most possible compromise at all, but it must be concluded that we have a failed attempt to consolidate the legal building of the European Union; instead of drawing up a single and transparent document, we have come up with only one more treaty that contains all the shortcomings of the current constitutional treaty. It is a great shame that French President Sarkozy failed with his proposal to agree instead of a stop-gap agreement on a shorter, principled and transparent document that would bring the European Union closer to its citizens or residents in the European Union. So far, the assessment has largely been made that one of the biggest shortcomings of the European Union is the division into three pillars. It is said that the proposed document removes the three-pillar structure and in fact introduces a special regime for the second pillar concerning the common foreign and security policy, which means that the second pillar de facto remains. When it comes to national parliaments, the draft gives them the power to assess the functioning of the third pillar. At some points, the "opt-out" clause is introduced for individual members only, which in fact introduces the possibility of several legal orders. Before that, only reservations were possible. So why not name individual institutes with the right names? Slovenia has not so far taken a more precise view of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights, except that it has, in principle, supported it. We have not wondered what their relationship is or their relationship to the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, on the basis of which the European Court of Human Rights operates and decides in Strasbourg, and what consequences this or this potential duality may have. I therefore very much look forward to the fact that the draft Reform Treaty stipulates that the Union accedes to the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This is of great importance in harmonising standards for the protection of human rights throughout Europe and also for the future case-law in this area in Europe. Finally, not least: Who will read, study, and understand this legal and official Latvian language? More than once, it has been said that the European Community was a project of individual elites, not of wider layers in Western Europe. Nor will these complex and extensive documents of this content bring the people of the Member States of the European Union closer to them, which is a great loss and another missed opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u49	Thank you very much. But to my word I invite Ambassador Davorin Terchón. [[He's not here.]] Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Slavko Gaber has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u50	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. My contribution will be brief. I would like to express my support for the content that we are considering today and I warmly welcome the Minister with his colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. The aim of Europe's fathers was to achieve lasting peace and prosperity. From the outset, European integration has been based on the emphasis on the values of democracy, freedom of equality, the rule of law and human dignity and its rights. These values have led from the outset the European Community's work, which has evolved into an important, global force, despite the fact that it has not used military resources in its policy. This should be highlighted in particular. However, only values are not enough to be effective, but efficiency is needed, which often requires measures that once, on the other hand, do not agree with or disagree with. For long-term common objectives, it is often necessary to give up the short-term interests of individuals and individual countries. But art is a compromise. Decades of good economic cooperation and integration have created the conditions for moving forward also in the field of political and security cooperation. The European Union is thus increasingly developing from an economic actor into a single political security player. The expectations and requirements of the international community and the Member States for EU institutions are high. Therefore, it is essential to increase the effectiveness of the EU institutions, which now counts as 27 members. For more than members, there are many different interests, consensus is more difficult if not impossible. This, however, undermines the decision-making process and thus the power and influence of the Union. This need has been addressed by the Constitutional Treaty for Europe, as well as by the Reform Treaty, which is a fairly good or currently the best possible approximation. If Europe is to successfully face the challenges in the world and within it alone, it is essential that Member States take a step forward in the integration process and ratify the Reform Treaty. I myself, as well as my fellow Members in the Parliamentary Group, will support the proposal of the Republic of Slovenia's views on the draft Treaty amending the EU Treaty and the Treaty establishing the EU proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the Assembly. I also look forward to the answers to the questions raised by my colleague, Mr Kokalj. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Member Maja Shirtz is supposed to have the floor. [[She's not here.]] Member Anton Anderlich has the floor. [[He's not here.]] The word has magic. Tomaž Strabe.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Finally, one process of regulating contractual relations, or before that, of constitutional relations in the EU, is ending. This process has been taking a lot of energy and time since the Treaty in Nice in 2000 for all of us, but above all for the administration. Again, what Monet has already said in his announcement of the final objectives is that the European project as a political project of a single Europe is not realistic and that it will be possible only with small steps and with a lot of partnership and different understanding to somehow regulate common issues for what is before Europe as a challenge, which has been largely globalised in recent years, and, in the way that Europe works, there is an increasing possibility that Europe will be able to co-exist effectively and be a factor in the decision-making and development and regulation of global affairs in the way that it is now organised. Since this is a political reality, we do not really have the opportunity to add any way to this political reality to this reform treaty, as we now call it. It is commendable that at least the EU's shortcut will now have its basis in the title, because Europe is now called real, in fact as the European Union, and in this way will be with all these improvements, which are mainly focused on those necessity, I see them mainly in the context of the possibility of rounding up the European contingent in terms of the membership of all those countries that actually belong to the European Union. We Slovenians, our pre-presidency country, are particularly interested in opening up opportunities, real opportunities and formal opportunities for South-Eastern European countries to join the European Union more seriously with a real vision. In fact, in the Reform Treaty itself, the most important provisions from Parliament's point of view are those that increase the impact and strengthen the role of national parliaments, particularly with regard to the importance of European legislation on constitutionally defined rights in individual national countries. With regard to subsidiarity, a special mechanism is now in place to allow individual national parliaments to apply this subsidiarity criterion or special procedure in the case of a sufficiently large majority of national parliaments, a special procedure for adopting so-called legislation in the European Parliament. I think that this is actually the most important aspect in the context of our Parliament. However, there are, of course, other elements that allow, in fact, to make decisions operational in an enlarged Europe with a limited consensus rather than a full consensus. This introduces a dual majority decision-making system where 55% of the members and 65% of the population are required to make a decision, allowing for a minimum of four countries to prevent a decision. Unlike the current regime where it is necessary to accept all this with full consensus. This opens up a slightly greater possibility of actual decision-making. I think that we must be realistic and regrettably in the current situation, when some political elites, as some have mentioned, are more determined by certain tight times in individual countries, especially pre-election periods, which, in fact, give ambitions to individual countries or leading groups and others, to try to blackmail a lot of things that do not actually fall within a partnership and a partnership. The opening times of the European Union, when a single market for steel and coal has been introduced or a single economic space or a single monetary space, which has always experienced some exceptions, this time seems to have not yet come and reality is in the present tense a gradual development of individual contracts from individual periods. I will support the Slovenian Government's position on the proposal for a reform treaty and I think that our delegation, the President of the Government, will actually represent everything that was agreed in a coordinated and unified manner at the intergovernmental conference in Berlin in June this month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u53	Thank you very much. To the word of the apostle Joseph Školč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! He has me to repeat some of the things that have already been said, but it wouldn't be too much. I also share the scepticism of those who say that more could be achieved in terms of the greater effectiveness of these bodies envisaged by the Union. What I miss, in addition to the presence of my colleagues, of course, I also miss the attention of the Government to this problem, either when people speak, or when it is good that ministers from different fields are present here. Nevertheless, I would point to an article that I think can only cheer us up and there was no talk about today. This is a new 15th article that discusses relations between churches, religious associations and countries. I believe that, also in view of these discussions, which we are constantly having in Slovenia, it is good to have a text in this Treaty as it has come. This text will, in some ways, also be able to dispel internal discussions. He will also take weapons out of the hands of many, if necessary, that certain things should be arranged in such a way as the European context dictates. See, Article 15b speaks of the fact that these are things that each country can handle in its own way. Thus, if anyone wants to grant any more leave to anyone, he will no longer have an excuse in this European legislation, but will in fact have to conduct internal political and social discussions. It is indeed a good solution, which, of course, makes it impossible, on the other hand, to prevent any of the arrangements that only these organisations and churches need to make, because the last paragraph of this Article also speaks of the need for these churches and organisations to recognise the necessary identity and provide transparent contributions in accordance with legislation. I welcome this article, and I strongly believe that our diplomacy had nothing to do with it, and I am even sure that if it were aware of the internal political implications, it might even make a reservation to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Member Anton Kokalj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u56	Otherwise, on behalf of the Group of Members, I have already expressed my support for the positions, but perhaps I could mention a few things about the procedure in dealing with these views and this content, which is actually a special feature in the National Assembly today. The whole procedure for dealing with European matters, as we know, has a special place in the legislation and also in the Rules of Procedure, and sometimes, in fact, because of not long enough practice, we are also a bit of a catch. However, I think that yesterday's debate on the Committee was also interesting. But I would just like to mention something, and I regret that today the College of the President of the National Assembly has failed to make one decision that would be in such a specific situation as I mentioned earlier, in my view, blue. I have proposed that Mr Elmar Brak, who is a member of the European Parliament and is also one of the three members of the European Members who, as observers, are included in the intergovernmental conference, today could perform and give us a view of the European Parliament on this same content, given that we are in the European Union. Given that we are preparing for the presidency and that we are constantly talking about openness, I find such a decision by the College of the National Assembly to make this violation of the Rules of Procedure almost incomprehensible and unacceptable. I don't know if it's only in the plenary room that foreigners can't perform and can't perform here. I really don't get it. And I think that, given what I have already mentioned, the special procedure that European affairs involve seems to me to be a great deal of damage. The Lord was willing to do so, he was visiting our Parliament on the Committee on Foreign Policy, but I was not allowed to. I am therefore sorry, and it would be good to take such proposals into account if we, as President-in-Office, want to act in an integrated manner. By the way, I think that the matter that we treat so rarely in plenary sessions is extremely difficult and, in fact, relatively uninteresting. On the other hand, I regret that we no longer succeed in this knowledge and behaviour, which the Government and individual ministries, which are aware of the importance of the content, of this Treaty and of all other matters they are dealing with, are transferring to Parliament. That is why I think this debate is extremely useful today, but it is only a drop into the sea from what should be discussed in this House. I would therefore like to call on this occasion when we consider this Treaty, which will also outline greater engagement, if adopted, also greater involvement of national parliaments. I hope that it will also have an impact on the greater activity of ourselves here in our Parliament, and in particular of the work of our mothers, who, in many cases, do not want to deal with European matters, which are very much linked to our daily lives and also our legislation. Why have I supported and supported the views of the Government, as I mentioned earlier, or have I suggested in general? Because it seems to me that, despite the fact that strong countries are still acting possible as those who regulate everything, and we are a small number of countries, or especially some other Member States, extremely sensitive to still some predominance of older EU members, it still seems to me that the EU's key objective in the future is simply the current situation that makes us feel that each country is simply unable to function and face the issue of terrorism, energy, ecology, global economy, migration and so on. I would therefore ask the Government that, even if the issues today have not been raised in the debate, the questions that you are waiting for on the European Council to inform the National Assembly, that they, or even your views, visions, should also be made aware of the possible scenarios that can be drawn from this, because I think that the Slovenians, in particular our Parliament, need to be a little more aware of both the content and what can be happening next year on the European stage. I think that this is already in the context of preparations, and this is also a kind of pre-preparation for the discussion of the Presidency programme that the Government is preparing for next year. We all know that if this treaty process does not succeed, then we know what our Presidency programme will be, especially what it will be aimed at. On this occasion, however, I would like once again to thank all government representatives who have tried to present the answers to Parliament in this time period, in particular, as well as the substantial changes between the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe and the current Reform Treaty, but I must also express some disappointment that the decision of the Committee of Affairs of the European Union at a previous meeting has been ignored, where we have proposed that one or two should still be sent by parliamentary groups and a brief and concise explanation as to the importance of the change in the treaty we are adopting be given to those who have been ratified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u57	Thank you very much. And I give the word to Ambassador Mitja Slavinec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. I have already pointed out the main concerns regarding the documents under consideration in the opening. Now I could only repeat a few more concrete matters, even more so, because what we now accept must be directed at citizens and citizens first of all the Republic of Slovenia and then, of course, to all Europeans and Europeans, so we must make the European Union so that it is friendly to citizens and citizens and, above all, that from the regulation of the European Union, people will have something out of these integrations. Not, as we have already heard, the political elites about whom there is so much talk, but I am not afraid that only these documents are written on their skin, but even more prominently, and it is important to stress what will have a direct impact and will also directly improve the lives of citizens and citizens. Here, first of all, I highlight the area of common European policies. We know, of course, the common agricultural policy, and we see that these documents will not make much progress, so that in the area of the European Union's common agricultural policy, let's say our farmers are in a more equal position to some others, especially those from countries that have already been members of the European Union before we are included. Of course, the common foreign and security policy does not touch citizens so directly, but of course it is so much more direct and has an impact on the quality of life of the European Union's common budgetary policy. We can often hear, and I share the view that these comments are justified, how very bureaucratic are the procedures, how much specific paperwork is needed when applying for European calls. I know that this is not a matter of these documents that we are currently dealing with, but I would point out that how these budgetary resources are more effective from the European institutions is to direct and apply in our territory, so in our country, that this is certainly a matter that needs to be regulated in the European Union, that this is something that will have a direct impact on citizens and citizens. I wish that the treaty would not be the subject of referendums and, of course, was once again misused for the internal political purposes and objectives of some countries and their leaders. Finally, I should like to stress once again that I would like as few exceptions as possible, especially because the objective situation is such that these exceptions in the European Union will affect other countries, older, older, more Slovenia, not as many exceptions as possible and thus ensure a more equitable situation in the European Union, and that the achievement of the common objective of achieving all: a united Europe united in a single and external way, as well as a politically successful Europe, is able to achieve this objective. And the stronger the European Union is, the stronger the Republic of Slovenia will be on average. But let us strive to make Slovenia more than average within this society, both in terms of activities and, of course, in terms of what it participates in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u60	Given that I am the last debater, that Mr Jerovšek is behind me and then the proposer, and that there is no opportunity for discussion, I would like to talk about three things. First, I would like to thank you, then I would like to talk about the role of the President and finally about the position of the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, thanks are given to the professional services of the National Assembly, which the Members, those who wanted to do so, have armed themselves with a proper comparison of both documents. Everyone probably has a beautifully squeezed, grinding Treaty on the Constitution on his cabinets. I cannot thank the Government for failing to accept the well-intentioned proposal of the EU Affairs Committee so that, in these days of the Group of Members, someone will be informed of the content of this Reform Treaty. I understand that the Government has been on visits to the regions, and that counts a lot. Second, on the role of chairman. It is interesting that in this European negotiations on the convergence of positions these days, or this week the most engaged on two key themes: the Treaty, energy and elsewhere, the current President and the future Chairman. However, not the future President-in-Office of Slovenia, but the future President-in-Office of France. Mr Sarkozy's meeting with Mr Kaczvnski was at the beginning of the week, and we also know what he is doing and what the talks are about in Moscow. Interestingly, today's "Bulletin of Europe" issue 9519 reports that Mr Lech Kaczynski believes, not Miroslaw, who met with Sarkozy, but Lech, that he is convinced 95% to 98% that the inclusion or integration of the so-called ionnine protocol in Lisbon will be achieved. This means that, despite the fact that most countries are opposed to a compromise on the Ioanin formula contained in the statement being translated into an integral text, from 95% to 98% of the likelihood that Poland will succeed. What's the problem? This is where I'm going to take my position. The position to be adopted below is that the Republic of Slovenia seeks to translate the IGC, the international conference, into the legal text of a new treaty amending the Treaty, etc. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is closed at a closed meeting yesterday, but the document is not closed, so I am not violating anything, the document is not internal, said that the position of Slovenia is rejected up to all three requirements of Poland, since they are not based on the mandate adopted by the European Council in July 2007 and recommends that the Committee delete this text. This was not accepted. I therefore ask: Is the Republic of Slovenia the one who believes with 2 to 5% that Poland will not succeed? And if Poland succeeds and thus exceeds the mandate given in the National Assembly to translate a political agreement into a legal text, will Slovenia oppose it? A similar story is Poland's association with the United Kingdom clause on police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. On the basis of today's proposal by Minister Sturm to impose a life sentence in Slovenia, I am not surprised. In addition, we have a very interesting situation these days with a new country, another country: Bulgaria. Let me remind the National Assembly that we had a major discussion here in September 2004 whether the Slovenian version of the Constitutional Treaty will write the euro or the euro. We agreed to a certain euro in 1995. Bulgarians, however, want to open up the issue of spelling out the euro in Cyrillic. What will be Slovenia's position? We should be celebrating in these rooms these days. Yesterday we confirmed that Montenegro, as far as Slovenia is concerned, can sign a Stabilisation Association Agreement with the European Union. The only problem is, so it was said yesterday that Bulgaria opposes the use of the euro in Montenegro. The Minister of Finance was not quite clear on this. If Slovenia’s position on all three requests from Poland is rejected, as stated in the GAERC government coalition, I ask, what will the Government do if the role of the Joanna formula passes into the integral text of the new treaty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u61	Thank you very much. And on the list of applicants, I give my word to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Dimitrij Rupel, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Allow me to say a few words of comment to the debate and perhaps some explanation. First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate I have listened to. I think it has been good and constructive and, as I understand from it, follows that we will, however, take a step together, which is necessary and desirable at this point in time, to support the mandate given by the European Council and the reform treaty to be decided by the European Council at its next session. The second thing I want to say is that I have the impression that we have reached agreement on this, some fundamental agreement that the Reform Treaty, the text that we have before us today, preserves the essential characteristics of the Constitutional Treaty, the Constitutional Treaty of that text that this Parliament ratified in 2005 and that we all might have felt that it was perhaps better to know what we have before us today, but that in the history of the European Union it was sometimes necessary to take some important step forward, even to take a half-step back. Of course, I think that the essential feature is whether, if you want, the essential contribution of the Reform Treaty is that the Treaty ends the period of stagnation and crisis, which in some ways has also closed the door to the new members, which has held back, which has halted the enlargement of the European Union, which has in some ways allowed for what Slovenia is very fond of, namely, the Thessaloniki or European perspective for the Western Balkan countries. I listened to the debate carefully. I must say that there has been a lot of weighty words, and we have carefully remembered those who will be attending the European Council. However, I would also point out that some of the fears that may have been heard in this hall today are unjustifiable, and some may not have been well defined, and we will probably still have to adjust them. For example, the talk was about the lack of common values or the emphasis on diversity before the community or before common values. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Slovenian delegation was the one who, in the Convention and at the time of the adoption of the Constitutional Treaty, advocated the principle of cultural or linguistic diversity. And, of course, we must not forget that one of the European Union's slogans - what is the meaning of this password today - I will also say - is precisely "united in diversity or differences". I've heard debates that have touched on external matters. I must say, they were very interesting. Some people miss the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Let me comfort those who wish to have one, namely the European Minister for Foreign Affairs, that such a minister exists under another name or will exist, and we will get one. This will be the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy, who will at the same time take the lead in the Foreign Affairs Council, and at the same time will be the Vice-President of the Commission and will bring together the Commission and the Council on these fundamental external orientations. With regard to symbols, I would like to say a sentence that might remind you of a sentence that was once said, "It will be as it was." Nothing will be different from what it was, since the official recognition of the symbols of the European Union would only come through a constitutional treaty, and this constitutional treaty has not been established so far, and yet we have all joyfully proclaimed the European flags, all of us joyfully swore to European symbols, all of us rose up disciplined in the European anthem and so on. In short, it'll be just like it was. What I would like to say about the position of our delegation in the European Council and also on Monday at GAERC is as follows. Slovenia will certainly endeavour to maintain the mandate or guidelines adopted by the European Council. Nor will anyone else, except the European Council, be able to change these guidelines or this policy, be able to oppose or support some, such as amending some of the amendments, because only the European Council can break or amend what it has adopted as the mandate of the European Council. In order for the European Council to move significantly away from what it has already adopted, I must say that I do not believe. However, I believe there will be some compromise. If a compromise is needed to obtain such a treaty, I think such a compromise will also have to be accepted. However, the time is enough for us to discuss these matters or to say these things. As far as GAERC is concerned, Comrade Squeakl spoke about the positions that are ready for the GAERC, not for the European Council. As far as GAERC is concerned, we will oppose all Polish proposals. If there is compromise, there will be compromise in the European Council. However, I believe that, given the views we know, it is almost impossible to count on these positions to change too much. Some questions are still open. My colleague Kokalj asked the question, What are these questions? Maybe for a while. Poland has four of the most open questions. He's demanding that Joanna's mechanism be put into a contract. This mechanism is now contained in Declaration 4 on Article 9c/4 of the Treaty on European Union and Article 205/2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. This proposal recently amended President Kaczynski now to propose the transfer of this mechanism to the new Protocol to the Reform Treaty or Reform Treaty and not to the integrated text of the Reform Treaty. Legally, there is no particular difference between these two proposals, since the protocols to the Treaty have the same legal effect as the Treaty itself. This does not apply to declarations that have no legal effect, but are only political. As a result, this change — or this abandonment of Poland — does not bring about anything significant or new. It is therefore expected that this proposal will also now be rejected. Then there is Poland's interest to join Great Britain with regard to the "opt-out" which concerns the competence of the European Court of Justice for the existing legal acts of the third pillar. This comment, or this wish, has already been rejected, and I suppose the deal will also be rejected. So far, Poland has received no support for such a proposal. Then there is a requirement to increase the number of Advocates General. That's an interesting question. I would leave this issue open to the European Council. In fact, there is some imbalance between the number of lawyers and the number of judges, and I do not know whether Slovenia should in this case, say, if it were to be or not to be this treaty, whether Slovenia should insist on the end or perhaps give up. Then there is the requirement for loans from the European Investment Bank. It is the case that the Reform Treaty, as before the Constitutional Treaty, provides for a transition from a unanimous decision to a majority decision and Poland wants to maintain consensus. For Poland, there are absolute priorities that it will insist on: transferring the Joannin mechanism into a new protocol and increasing the number of public defenders. The question of how the European Investment Bank will decide on its loans will be raised, but it should not be insisted on, while as regards the issue of the UK's accession to its "opt-out" as regards the powers of the European Court of Justice for the existing third pillar acts, Warsaw has not taken a final political decision at this time. We'll see what we can find out about this speech at GAERC. Slovenia therefore does not support the re-opening of issues that are not defined in the mandate, and we also have concerns about the new Polish proposals. Then there is the question of the writing of the word 'euro', which Bulgaria is asking. This question was rejected because it is outside the mandate. We also had a small debate on this subject in Ljubljana or Slovenia. As I understand it, those who today strongly oppose Bulgaria refer to the fact that, initially, when it came to an accession treaty, they did not understand the problem because it was a Cyrillic script and because they did not know it. I don't believe that Bulgaria will succeed what it wants. But we'll see. Yesterday, I told the Committee on European Affairs that I would not risk a contract because of one letter, but, as it is said, it would also depend on the President of the Government and 26 other countries. By the way, Austria was trying to formulate some protocol on university issues. These are countries with the same language as some other countries where some of the restrictions on registration or which have a 'numberus clause'. I believe that this protocol will not succeed Austria, and I do not believe that Austria could insist on it and put this reform treaty at stake. The Czech Republic has a proposal that the Commission should have an obligation to repeal the act whenever the world asks it to. The Czech government decided a few days ago to open the issue at a political level. This may happen at GAERC, as is said in the world for general affairs and external relations, but it is not clear whether they will also insist on this issue at the level of the European Council. According to the Czech Government, the Reform Treaty as a whole is a good compromise. We think in the Government, our ministry in particular and in the USSR that the Czech proposal would change the institutional balance between the European Commission and the Council, and therefore this proposal is not acceptable to Slovenia. Slovenia has always advocated the view that institutional balance must remain as agreed with the Constitution. So much for me. Mr President, I thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I also conclude the debate with your performance. Given that there are approximately 46 of us in the Chamber, I propose that we suspend the meeting five minutes before the vote. Does anyone object? [[No, no, ……]] I'm adjourning the session in five minutes. We'll continue at 16.55. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u64	Dear Members and Members! Please take your seats. We continue with the adjourned session. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a position. As no amendment has been adopted by the competent working body to the supplementary proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a position of the Republic of Slovenia to a draft treaty amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community. Before voting, I ask Members and Members to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. An explanation of voice, in your own name? Does anyone want an explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] I am opening a procedure for the application of an explanation of vote on my behalf. If you'll excuse me, please. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Of course, this is the last chance to clarify my position. I appreciate that the position has been written in very general terms and that it allows for a very large number of interpretations, especially in the light of what Mr Minister has said in the last part. It does not matter whether or not we agree that Poland will have one more Advocate General, or whether we agree to make Poland's exception an integral part of the legislation, because then this legislation can change. And the question of Poland can be reopened in 2017. Whether or not we agree that Poland will, for example, join the "opt-out" of the United Kingdom clause. Imagine the implementation of the Schengen border on 1 or 22 December and then of course "opt-out" for all Poles, especially at its borders with Ukraine and Belarus. In this way, I think it would be necessary if, next week, the views of some Member States were reached through the mandate of an intergovernmental conference, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should contact the relevant committee of the National Assembly in this regard, which is the Committee on European Union Affairs. This would not be the first time, so with this comment I support the position, but we will closely monitor what our delegation in this world will do, especially how it will prepare itself if this world fails.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-12-SDZ4-Izredna-29.ana.u66	Thank you very much. As a matter of fact, we're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, for 48, against 4. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed position has been adopted. I also conclude this item on the agenda. I conclude the 29th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Have a nice day ahead!
