ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin the continuation of the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Darja Lavtijar Bebler, Roberto Battelli, Pavel Gantar, Ferry Horvat, Vasja Klavora, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Milan Petek from 11 a.m., mag. Anton Rop, Alojz Sok, Cyril Testen, Janko Weber and fellow Member Milenko Ziherl. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Research and Development, abbreviated procedure. I would like to inform you that we have 53 minutes to deal with this point. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly and I give the floor to Dr Dusan Lesjak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u2	Dear and esteemed, good afternoon, welcome! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on research and development activities is provided for under the 2007 work programme of the Government of Slovenia. It is the transposition of the Council Directive on a specific procedure for allowing third-country nationals to enter the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia for the purpose of scientific research. It is a matter of enabling research organisations wishing to host researchers from third countries to be granted a minimum of five years in advance, allowing third-country researchers to participate in research and development activities funded by the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u3	Thank you very much. In the framework of the legislative procedure, the draft law considered the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as a parent labour force. The Vice-President, Mrs Eva Irgle, will give her opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. At its 20th meeting, the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on research and development activities. The Committee's meetings were attended by law-makers, the Legislative and Legal Service and representatives of the public concerned. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar, Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, stated in the introduction of the proposal, that the reason for the adoption of the law transposing the Council of the European Union directive on a special procedure for allowing third-country nationals to enter the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia for the purpose of scientific research is the work governing the way and conditions for the approval of a research organisation wishing to conclude hosting agreements. In the rest of the work, the directive has already been implemented. The draft law thus introduces a solution whereby all research organisations that meet the conditions for carrying out research and development activities laid down in this Act and are therefore entered into the register of research organisations at the Public Research Agency of the Republic of Slovenia have the power to conclude roaming agreements. The Ministry is also responsible for overseeing the implementation of the roaming agreement, which can also be transferred to the Public Research Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee also adopted amendments to Article 3 of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. By incorporating this adopted amendment into the legislative proposal, the Committee set out the text of the amended proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of individual parliamentary groups. I'm informing the Human Party Group that we have everything under control. I would like to take the floor to present their Group's position, however, to invite my fellow Member, Mr Drofenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representative of the Ministry, Members and Members. We are adopting a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on research and development activities by means of a reduced procedure, as it contains only a minor amendment related to the harmonisation of our regulation with European Union law. It implements the Council Directive on a specific procedure for allowing third-country nationals to enter for the purpose of scientific research. The European Union aims to become the most competitive and knowledge-based economy in the world. To achieve this objective, a number of different measures have been introduced, including an increase in the number of researchers, which is, of course, a prerequisite for greater competitiveness and for faster development of the Union. We support the proposed amendment of the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, as it also allows third-country researchers to visit domestic research organisations in the event of a guest agreement. It is essential that researchers have more favourable living conditions in the field of research than other third-country workers. It is therefore a matter of encouraging researchers from third countries to explore in the European Union. We believe that the law, through a register of research organisations and clear sanctions, in the event of the removal of a particular organisation from this register, prevents any abuse of the proposed novel. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we would like to draw attention to the fact that, in addition to increasing the number of researchers from third countries, we need to encourage our citizens and citizens to decide on research activities. Above all, the State, through the competent ministries and other government services, must ensure adequate conditions to prevent our most talented researchers from leaving to other countries and continents. To this end, of course, we must also open the door to the greatest experts from around the world and invite them to cooperate with our institutes, universities and development-oriented companies. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u7	Thank you very much. In the meantime, I ask the Members to calm down, take their seats and allow the speaker to express his position. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, of course also the representative of the Ministry of Higher Education. I will not go into what the law actually brings, nor will I repeat the content that is also evident from the very explanation of the law. But there is a fact I would like to point out. While it is true that the law is largely linked to the transitional law on foreigners and the law on employment and the work of foreigners. On the other hand, the law is due to the demand for greater mobility of researchers, because the need for globalisation is the economy. The Sixth Framework Programme of the European Union. We also accepted this as a fact when we joined this great European Community. But the European Council in Lisbon is to this end, it is said that we will become more competitive at global level than the European Community, to this end the European Council in Lisbon has set the goal of making the European Union the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010. It's the Lisbon Strategy. And in the framework of the Lisbon Strategy, I would like to draw attention to one important fact that has been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the Reform Committee. Everything's fine and fine. If the European Union requires us to import foreign labour, and also commendablely, for the field of research activities, why, at the level of our country, the degradation of highly educated people. The Reform Committee has written in its programme that highly educated people, in terms of obtaining formal qualifications, can exploit employers to provide them with an appropriate job. This is recorded in the Reform Committee. Today, we are boasting because we are following the Lisbon Strategy, we are adopting a law whereby we will open the door wide to foreign labour, highly educated. But on the other hand, at the level of our country, we degrade these people. Yesterday, the day before yesterday we were taking, or a month ago, a year ago, the laws, and we're going to be talking about what the Slovenian employee actually has, or we've even removed some minimum standard of knowledge from the law. You know, these are double criteria. Double criteria - why? To pay the Slovenian labour force less than someone who will come from abroad, from a third world country, I don't know, Lebanon. It's a double morality, and that's unfair. While it is true that this law is a consequence of the European directive and since we have committed ourselves to the European Union, we must implement it in our legal order. But once again, do not lower the educational structure of the local people, Slovenes and Slovenians, it is dangerous and harmful in the long term.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Ambassador Maria Possonec will present the position of the national communities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u10	Nice greetings to all present! The European Research Area is the basis for future EU action in the field of research and development. The EU will need 700,000 researchers by 2010 with the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy adopted. This would achieve the objective of the Barcelona European Council to target 3% of gross social product for research. The EU will therefore open itself to third-country nationals who can be allowed to enter for research purposes. I would also like to point out that nationality also needs its research institutions, as it is possible only through these institutions can we slow down without preventing assimilation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Ambassador Ivan Yelen will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, respectable council! A dynamic and competitive economy and a clear target not only in the Lisbon Strategy, but in every national economy of the whole world can only be developed on the basis of excellence in knowledge and research. This requires, among other things, greater mobility of researchers. In order to achieve this objective, the EU, which is shown to be quite uninteresting for foreign researchers, needs to establish and consolidate such a research policy, which will open up scientific space for third-country nationals as well. To this end, a Council Directive on a specific procedure for allowing third-country nationals to enter for the purposes of scientific research was adopted two years ago as one of the measures in the field of European scientific research policy, and is complemented by the Law on Research and Development, as part of the implementation of the Directive has already been carried out in the Foreigners Act and the Law on Employment and Work of Foreigners. We accept the proposed legislative amendments in the parliamentary group as appropriate, even though we have gone to slightly more liberal options than other Member States, which have either a prescribed procedure to approve hosting agreements between research organisations or that research organisations must test the qualifications of the researcher before concluding the agreement. Our solution does not contain additional difficult procedures, which would constitute an obstacle both to researchers and to research organisations, but it will allow direct legal power to conclude agreements to all those organisations that are registered in the Register of Researchers and Development Activities, which, of course, requires the fulfilment of certain conditions that are governed by the Public Agency for the Research Activities of the Republic of Slovenia. The implementation of roaming agreements concluded by research organisations to individual researchers shall be subject to the responsibility of the Ministry of Science, which may transfer control to a public agency. A successful transition to a knowledge society is crucial for the transition of Slovenia and Europe as a whole so that it can stand alongside the world's superpowers in science and research. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that the mobility of researchers and scientists must be supported not only within the European Union but also between it and third countries. In the DeSUS Group, we will also support these proposed amendments and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! We will also support the SDS Group's proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on research and development as it is a matter of harmonising the law on research and development activities with the rule of law of the European Union. Since this is the content of the law, it is difficult to be original and most likely to repeat itself, so I will be very brief and I will only express my view that in the SDS Group we agree that it is about promoting the entry and mobility of third-country nationals in scientific research, and that Slovenia, too, we are happy to participate in the creation of a European research space that will enable a competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy. Everything else has already been mentioned in this debate, so I will not repeat it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Comrade Jerovšek. Mrs Breda Pečan will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good morning and sincere congratulations on today's state holiday, Rudolph Maister. First, let me get back to the law itself. Our sent group will support the law; not only because we are so marked by the European directive, but also because, with the help of researchers from the European Union and from third countries to which the amendments to this law apply, it is possible to accelerate research and development in our country, and this is a comparative advantage to the extent that we are able to obtain researchers from third countries. However, once again we would like to turn to the fact that in the ministry that has proposed through the Government of the Republic of Slovenia this law is constantly, we can say that it is almost chronic, namely that every amendment to the law proposed by this Ministry contains a disproportionately large percentage, in which case we can even say grave errors. It seems as if the drafters do not read the laws previously tabled in the National Assembly, which are the basis for the amendments, by the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. If the fact that our Law-Legal Service has to constantly identify the errors of negligence is no different from the inability of the people who are preparing draft laws for the National Assembly in this ministry, I think that now that this ministry has a new minister, it is time for it to make order among its employees. I think it's amazing that 20% to 25% of every law needs to be rectified in the National Assembly because it's easy for the preparers to overlook such facts as the fact that the basic law states that the lists of research organisations and the qualifications of the research and development organisation are carried out by the Agency, and then suddenly in the next law we skip, and for those research organisations that conclude agreements for researchers from third countries, the Ministry does. In this regard, even in the Committee, there was no willingness to amend, namely, that there are some new provisions in Article 4 of the Act, we can say what administrative obstacles will complicate and make it difficult to conclude agreements between researchers from third countries and such research organisations, who are qualified and have, in some way, the license of the Agency. I therefore believe that, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, I can appeal to the Minister again, but I have once again appealed to the Minister, but now to the Minister, to make sure that the following laws do not require correction of such school errors in the National Assembly, since it is the Ministry of Higher Education and not for education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Ambassador Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The European Union and individual members of the European Union have been in the process of defining their further development path ahead of the dilemma which priority should be used in the globalisation competition for competitiveness. And the European Union has decided that its priority will be to focus on knowledge, science, research and development. Therefore, the European Union will not build its development on the basis of the environment, on the basis of the reduction of social rights, but will offer competitiveness in the field of knowledge, science in the global competition. Slovenia, like most countries and the European Union, has fully accepted this challenge and has identified knowledge in its strategic documents as the fundamental value and development of Slovenian society as a knowledge-based society. Recently we were able to find at the award of the Puhov and Zois awards and recognitions that Slovenia has successfully followed these paths and has demonstrated its research, development and scientific excellence. Allow me once again to congratulate all those who received these high scientific awards this year. When the European has identified its objective of creating the most competitive, dynamic, knowledge-based society, it has identified two important objectives among a number of measures. This means that, in the European Union, in the European Research Area, it wants to ensure an adequate number of researchers, i.e. scientists, and it has identified a number of around 700 000. And it defined the next objective, which is to target 3% of the social gross product in this area. When the European Union faces demographic characteristics, it notes that the ageing of the population calls into question the achievement of the first objective, an adequate number of researchers. It has therefore matured the knowledge and conclusion that everything needs to be done and those measures that will make the European space interesting, that researchers and scientists from the third world will also enter this area. And the implementation of this Directive of the European Union is ahead of us today, which in fact introduces the final implementation of this Directive into the Law on Research and Development Activities. If Slovenia successfully creates these conditions for the integration of highly educated people in the field of creating scientific and research excellence, of course, it will not only be important that we accept this today as possible in law. It will also be very important in other areas, so that in another area of legislation we will take such measures as will allow research and education institutions, institutes and organisations to feel that they can create this space and have a sufficiently high degree of autonomy. At the same time, of course, discussions around the budget will need to follow the objective of providing the budget with the necessary resources to achieve this objective by 3% of the GDP, because without these two criteria being met, of course the EU will not achieve this desired objective. We will therefore support the proposed amendments and additions to the law on research activities, which basically means the implementation of the directive, but of course the content itself is much deeper and we want to be successful in building a knowledge-based society in Slovenia and to create the necessary conditions for creating research excellence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Member of the Parliament Martin Mikolič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenije. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u20	Nicely greeted! Dear President, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The new law on research and development activities is linked by its content to the laws, acts which we have already discussed in this mandate. First of all, let me mention the resolution on the national research and development programme for the period 2006-2010, which provides for the promotion of hosting foreign professors and researchers at Slovenian institutions as one of the tasks for achieving the objectives set. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that increasing the mobility of professors and researchers within the university and between the university, institutes and the economy is crucial for increasing the quality and creating a competitive society. When dealing with researchers' mobility, we talk too often only about the movement of researchers within the EU, but we forget about others, third countries that are leading their research potential in certain areas on a global scale. The bill we are adopting today introduces a solution whereby all research organisations that meet the conditions for carrying out the research and development activities set out in this Act have the power to conclude hosting agreements for third-country researchers. The Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology is also responsible for overseeing the implementation of the Hosting Agreement, which can be transferred to the Public Research Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. This amendment implements part of the Council of Europe directive on a specific procedure for allowing third-country nationals to enter for the purposes of scientific research, which they have partially transposed into our legal order already the law on foreigners and the law on employment and the work of foreigners. Our task is to create a situation for the emergence of a related, flexible and all researchers of the accessible market in the research workforce. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that this change of law will take us one step further in the pursuit of this goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I also conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his participation, but I am also terminating this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, this is the third defensively proposed law on the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the ordinary procedure. I would like to inform you that we have two hours and 55 minutes of discussion scheduled for this point. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading and I give the floor to the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u22	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. In recent years, cultural policy in the field of the book has developed well different forms of state support for the book and thus provided all the real possibilities for the realization of the wish of Slovenian literary creators and others working in the field of the book to set up a book agency. It should also be pointed out that the budget for the book has been substantially increased since 2004 to allow the implementation of the planned measures. In particular, cultural policy has focused on the creator as an essential entity by deliberately increasing the author's fees and implementing other support measures such as work grants for creativity, planned support for translations into foreign languages, planned presentation of Slovenian literature at foreign book fairs, library compensation, etc. The decision to set up a public agency in the field of the book is therefore an important event with which the Government gives added importance to the book, since the Agency allows for even greater development, both in terms of both the content and financial importance. At the Ministry, we insisted that the bill was realistic and that it was based on compliance with the system-wide laws - the Law on Public Agencies, Public Finance Laws and Laws on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, as this only allowed its full implementation in practice. We believe that the bill is good and consistent because it is based on the real state of the book. Only in such a developed state can this area be built in the future. There was a broad public debate on the draft law, which was discussed at the National Council for Culture, which supported the draft and made some other proposals, but we received a number of comments and suggestions from societies, publications and individuals. The Ministry of Culture has included a number of comments to the public in the draft law. The largest number of discussions was due to Article 6 of the law which speaks of the composition of the Council of the Agency, and the Ministry is convinced that it has proposed the best possible and optimal option Article 6 of the Act. However, it is aware that there is also a need to reach agreement, with a key branch in the book area, that is with the writers. The question of why the agreement reached with the Association of Slovenian Writers now and not before, which has also appeared in the media, is misleading, according to the Ministry. We believe that the responsible bill-maker must exhaust all possibilities of dialogue and argument, and that it is always the right time for consensus until the law is adopted. The Ministry and the Association of Slovenian Writers, in their dialogue with the newly formed Article 6 of the Law, have achieved that the composition of the Council is such that it still includes all key entities in the field of the book, while at the same time defining the responsibility of the public agency. As the establishment of an agency is an important event for the book area, it is expected that voting for it will be the highest possible. The proposed amendment to the amendment takes into account all the essential comments of the proposal of the Association of Slovenian Writers and the agreement with the Association of Slovenian Writers, which represents a key branch of the functioning of the public agency. With the proposed solution, we will be able to place key branches in the work of the public agency, i.e. writers and translators, representatives of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts and one member of universities, on a proposal from the most interested professional public. The proposed amendment, however, provides in particular for responsibility for the work of the public agency, for achieving its objectives and for the responsibility of the interested professional public working in the field of the book. The upcoming book fair is a good decision of the National Assembly if it adopts the Book Agency Act and also promises that the situation in the book area will progress, at a better evaluation of creators, that is, authors and even in the entire book chain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views in full on the draft law. Ambassador Majda Shirca will present the position of the Zares Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u24	Hello, well-respected minister, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! It is good that an agreement has been reached between the Ministry of Culture and the Association of Slovenian Writers on a key open issue, with which we have also suffered in these areas. This is said, with regard to the composition of the board of directors of the future book agency, meaning that out of seven members and members, four of the art and book reference institutions will propose their own names, their members. Of course, as long as this amendment is accepted and there is no doubt that it would not be. The government will appoint three. This means that the profession of beauty, translation, and scientific and humanistic books, or literature, will have a decisive word. This is good, and there is no doubt that the Group would really oppose it. In fact, we ourselves have tried to support a similar version or variant. It is worth noting that in this system law we are not or are not or have not been able to enforce that systemic assurance that the tax collected from the book will return to the book. If she were as eloquent as her colleague Grims, she herself would now be wearing a board, a list of the names of those voices of the opposition who, when voting on the Resolution of the National Programme for Culture, voted for this solution; this is said to be a return from the book tax to the so-called Book Fund. Now you've walked through this list, this voice that you've once given in other circumstances, but it's the answer that promises made at the appropriate times are after you're in a different position, in a different context. And that, for example, this may not be the most compatible form by means of the philosophy of the integral budget, you will explain this once, not only about the issue of book tax, but also about the analog solutions that you promised before you began to regulate culture, but today they are not. I am talking about the analogy of the so-called cultural heritage taxi, which has been promised, but it is now gone, and I am also talking about those tomatoes or those funds that are supposed to be collected in a certain account and then went to Slovenian cinema, the so-called film fee. Not a film fee, not a cultural heritage tax, not a tax tax collected from the literature that is supposed to go back to literature, is now gone. Okay, but, as I say, you're going to have to explain this one time why, when you face the reality of the budget, you can no longer defend those solutions you once had. In short, however, it is good that the multi-month negotiations on how the Management Board of the Public Book Agency should be composed end up as they are. That's what they say, with the help of the Ministry of Culture and the agreement with the Society of Writers. It is also good that it has emerged, Mr Minister, in some way from the view where there is only a black and white world, that is to say, if someone proposes something, whether it is a profession to let it not be called a profession, but to listen to it. In short, you can see that the solutions that may be good for you on the other hand and can be good for you on the one hand. If this were to happen, and if such a hearing had been two, three years ago, then there might not have been as many offers being heard in the public RTV law and there would have been more hearing about the need to depoliticize public television and the world or its authorities differently than you did, as the consequences can be seen to be what they were when you put them on the table. In short, on this occasion, if I say exemplary listening to the Ministry of Culture, I recommend it. With similar understanding, similar hearings and similar dialogue, the Ministry of Culture has also undertaken a correction of the statutory law in culture regarding the composition of the councils of public institutions, since the Constitutional Court, as we know, has repealed that article, which does not clearly define how the councils of public institutions should be composed. It is not possible for this city to talk about this, but I am saying that in the composition of the Management Board of the Public Book Agency, there has been such a solution that the profession in a very important body will play a decisive role, that is to say, four members will be appointed by independent institutions and three will be appointed by the Government. In short, now that the public agency is approved today or will be established, it should be accompanied by a recommendation that, in the course of further consideration, it should be made, in the preparation of sub-legislative acts that are very important not to say decisive for life, the life of this agency in order to prepare these sub-legislative acts, which will clearly define the competences of the key authority, as well as the professional commissions, which will in some way decide how and how and by whom to share subsidies or money, support for all activities in the field of literature, so that this preparation will be sufficiently sensitive and that these orientations will be as good as possible. Let me conclude with this, Mr. Minister, the greater support for the book has not happened since 2004, certainly not as you said today, indeed the place where we live in Slovenia has burned the Slovenian word in the past centuries, but it is also true that there was no misunderstanding of the Slovenian word in the previous system before 2004. Indeed, there have been different periods and I regret that in the budget we will face in the coming days, the share of culture within GDP is not as good as it was in previous years, but it is true to say that Slovenia is - once more, twice less, but never without hearing - trying to live the Slovenian word to be supported and to print Slovenian books and never to be burned again.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u26	Mr President, colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister with co-workers. Slovenia has survived the millenniums, despite the domination of many patrons. She survived only and only with her own culture, with her own language, with her written word and her love for her conduct and knowledge. I remember when I was young, in elementary school, reading under the free sun. How much I loved reading Cankar's Girls or how much I liked reading beautiful, archaic Prešeren's language to me. And it's important in the law we're talking about today, the Public Book Agency, to look at two things: why this agency, or the law, and what the agency will do. It will be because it will perform certain tasks that the Ministry cannot and will take on a coordinating and implementing role. And why is that? In order to ensure a more sustainable environment for the development of the book area, it will carry out supporting tasks and provide permanent conditions for excellence in the field of beauty and other written words. It is a beautiful Slovenian word, it is a beautiful Slovenian composition, but it is true that it is not enough. It is also true that we do not read it enough or we do not want to read it, and the agency will, we believe in the Slovenian National Party, the one that will ensure everything. That Slovenians and Slovenians will have more of their books and that both through the school system and through our work we will impress young people to read the Slovenian word. And given that, in the third reading of the amendment to Article 6, about which so many words have been spoken, there has finally been some agreement and that the content which the Slovenian National Party has tabled in this amendment in the second reading, when it has not been accepted that most of this content is now adopted and summarised in this amendment after the third reading, we will in our Slovenian National Party in the care of Slovenia and Slovenia, the Slovenian Book, and also in the words, much effort and work made by the Minister and the Ministry of Culture will be absolutely supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u27	Thank you very much. However, Ambassador Ivan Yelen will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u28	Thank you again for your word, Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Secretary! In the DeSUS Group, we welcome this bill and we will be happy to support it. It is also because the text of the proposal is harmonised and supported because it has also been reflected in the debate on the working body, both the coalition and the opposition, and in particular by the professional public, who have been working for a number of years to draft such a bill and, consequently, to adopt it. Particular attention has already been paid to the form of the proposed Book Agency at the meeting of the Committee. We have also focused in our parliamentary group on the issues of emancipation of the Agency's leadership and decisions. The Agency is to be chaired by a board composed of representatives of the founder and representatives of the professional public, elected by the founder by a public call. In view of the basic considerations of the bill's proposal that this new form should contribute to the greater impact of the profession and thus improve the quality of the decisions taken, the DeSUS Members considered that the original text was too loose, so we supported the amendment that summarized the more professional solutions proposed by the Association of Slovenian Writers. The third reading now re- tabled an amendment to this article, which is the result of a compromise between the proposer and the professional public, and which more appropriately forms solutions for the composition of the Book Agency's Council, so we will be happy to support it in our Group of Members. As has already been said, the DeSUS Group will support the amendment and the entire text of the law, as it is considered to be of quality. We are also convinced that it is a good basis to ensure a more sustainable development of all Slovenian literary creators, publishers and others working in the field of the book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Ambassador Maria Possonec will present the position of the Group of the People's Community. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again a nice greeting to all present! The law provides for the establishment of the operation, organisation of financing and supervision of the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia and defines its tasks. The aim of the Book Agency is to manage the professional development and enforcement tasks related to the implementation of the strategic documents and guidelines in the field of the book. The Agency shall also carry out other tasks relating to the promotion of development in the field of the book, in accordance with the purpose set out in the creation act. The Book Agency will provide more permanent conditions for the development of the book in a way that is consistent with the public interest linked to the book as such, allowing for systematic long-term implementation of the various support tasks relating to improving the position of creators, book publishers and making the book more accessible to all citizens. To this end, the Book Agency will carry out supporting tasks consistent with the public interest in the book, which will take into account the complexity and internal connection of all articles of the book chain, from authors, publishers, libraries, bookstores to readers. This law will change and improve the work and life of poets, writers, and anyone who deals with books. Thank you to the Ministry of Culture for hearing so much that this marriage came to our bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Grims will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u32	Respectable. Good-bye to all of you. Of course, in the processes of globalisation, Slovenia also faces entirely new challenges, changed circumstances, which may be right for Slovenia and also for its culture, and especially for the book, different from many other countries. Because we have become an integral member of the European Union, we have taken sides with democratic European nations and, on the other hand, the processes of globalisation, which are much broader, have an impact on the fact that conditions for the Slovenian book are certainly less favourable today than they were in the past. From this point of view, any step that is in favour of the preservation and strengthening of Slovenian culture and, in particular, of Slovenian book is welcome and means an important decision to preserve what is the foundation, which is the essence, which is the core of every national community. This is said to be its culture written in this case, because we are dealing with the book in writing. The law before us today is, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party's assessment, a very good solution that allows funds to be raised not only from the budget but also from other sources and that this will strengthen the material base, on the basis of which even in these changed, less favourable circumstances can be built and strengthened by the Slovenian book. The solutions offered in the law are thoughtful, professionally justified and have been the product of long-term coordination. We have also used time from the second to the third reading to re-enter with those who will be beneficiaries of the funds allocated to them by the Agency and we have reached a consensus with them. The fruit of this consensus is an amendment, which is not only tabled by the SDS or the parties to the coalition, but also by an important part of the opposition, and which I believe can, and must also become, the fruit of the broadest consensus at the time of the vote and that the same applies to the law. We will, of course, unanimously support him in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I invite Ambassador Sam Bevk to present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Last month, cultural developments were most marked by the film, the renewal of the Ljubljana Opera, the first review of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and, of course, the establishment of the Public Book Agency. The Law on the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia has already raised a major resistance in the first place among Slovenian writers, although at the principal level we supported almost everyone. The writers even gathered at the protest meeting, we received an open letter from the president of the Association of Writers Vlad Žabota, even in the media was one of the most important topics and the general impression was that the government coalition was not fond of the book. It is unfortunate that, in the second reading, we have left an opportunity to supplement the most controversial article 6 of the law, which speaks of the composition of the Council of the Book Agency. Last week, the Association of Slovenian Writers and the Ministry of Culture signed an agreement and reached a consensus on the composition of the Council, which is composed of seven members. Thus, the founder directly appoints 3 members of the Council and one at the request of the representative Association of Writers, the Association of Literature Translators, the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, and one at the suggestion of universities of prominent scientists and book developmentists. Thus, the third reading amendment, supported by the Group of Social Democrats, takes into account all the essential comments of the Association of Slovenian Writers. The establishment of a public agency makes sense only if it means a deliberate transfer of decision-making from policy to professionalism and if it recognises an equal position for civil society. In this way, the founder of the Agency will not directly select all members of the Council, but only three out of seven, and the rest will be proposed by the most interested professional public on its own. In this way, we have ensured greater autonomy to the public agency for the book of the Republic of Slovenia, and its establishment has thus gained its purpose and is further justified. The Council of the Agency is a very important body and, in the case of a public agency, it must be autonomous and independent in its decisions and take into account the professional criteria. The Council will have very great powers and will have relatively large resources. Already today, at the level of the state budget, data for 2005 and therefore in the Tolars, we are spending 2 billion 157 million tolars for the book. The Agency will now pool funds for books within the Ministry of Culture, which is a billion 883 million tolars, and funds at the Public Research Agency of 332 million tolars. So, together with only budgetary resources, the world of masters will be with a billion 715 million tolars or 7 million 175 thousand euros. In addition, it will acquire other financial resources for its activities. We wrote in the National Programme for Culture that the accessibility of the book in the Slovenian language should be taken into account, the promotion of original creativity as translation literature, with a particular aim of expanding and deepening the reading culture. The objectives, however, are to increase the number of books sold, to increase access to the book, to increase the volume of books and magazines, and to promote the development of a book network and a higher level of reading culture. I think it is also time for the Government and the National Assembly to adopt a national programme for reading culture as soon as possible, which is supposed to be ready in the draft, but it is not the will to be sent into the adoption process. Members of the Social Democrats will vote in favour of the establishment of the Public Book Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, as the Agency will be given new tasks that the Ministry of Culture cannot perform, and greater participation of the professional public will be ensured, and the possibilities for obtaining extra-budgetary resources for the book will be increased. These are the main reasons why the Social Democrats Group will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u35	Thank you very much. My colleague, Jožef Školč, will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! The adoption of this Law on the Public Book Agency is certainly one of those steps that takes as much as possible a 15-year-old cultural-political discussion on the strategy to the book and on the strategy to support this activity. Many important steps have been taken on this path and, in fact, this law sets out all the good goals, which were to a large extent also through the help of the Slovenian Parliament, and organises them into a law establishing a single agency. The public agency is certainly a step further away from the idea of compliance and is certainly also a step further from those stated objectives that it summarizes in the national cultural programme. As this public agency will work, it depends largely on its authorities, not only on the law-defined powers, but also on the resources to be allocated to this agency and, last but not least, on the autonomy that such an agency must have. This will not start the golden age of the Slovenian book. I'm not making any illusions about this myself. However, it will end if this agency comes to an end when the Ministry, in good and bad terms, has to be responsible for the various actions related to the financing of the book and the actions related to the support of the book. And that seems to me, I will say important and good, and also this compromise, which was last concluded by the ministry with Mr Zaboth and his colleagues under great pressure, is not going to be a form, a wider public and even a debate in Parliament, is an important step that I welcome and which our Group has also gladly signed. That is why we can all look forward to this work, and we want the full autonomy of this agency. Regrettably, in the previous step, the power to open Article 11 was lacking. This is the article that talks about the funds for the book. At this point, of course, it's not all over and done. It is true that the public concerned cannot remove this from the Ministry and the Government, but this mistake can be made - and here I would ask you if you would really listen - to the Parliament cancels. Tomorrow it will be on the committee responsible and in the next days it will be possible for the National Assembly to complete the budget with appropriate amendments. Corrections to the budget may be made with Parliament's consent or with the necessary majority in Parliament. We have been in our parliamentary group because, I will say, we have been following these things systematically for more than 10 years, even this time we have prepared a supplement to the budget, which fully sums up this idea that the Book Agency is filling in in such a way that approximately the VAT collected from the sales of books is returned to this Agency's budget. The Society of Writers has written to you about the need to provide 20% of additional funds within a few years in relation to the estimated VAT collection in the previous year. We have collected this data carefully, controlled it with the writing society, examined it in statistical records and tabled an amendment that would bring this agency out in the next year a million 180.00 additional funds. This is what I'm telling you today, this is what we're going to tell you tomorrow, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, so I don't think there's going to be any excuse to vote against it, especially if it holds everything you say we want to help this book, so we want to make a full deal with civil society. And I am sure that the increase in resources, even if this is not publicly defined, cannot be opposed by the Minister for Culture, at least not intimately. Therefore, it seems to me that the agreement we have reached to establish this agency is of great importance that we also provide the necessary resources to this agency and, in essence, that idea, which was based only on the fact that at least as much money as is collected from the tax collection, is provided from the budget back to that agency that these funds are provided in the coming years. And the first step is the adoption of the budget and consistent decision-making requires support for this supplement today, the adoption of the law and the adoption of the corresponding supplements in the budget. So every good marriage is full of twists. In this discussion we have witnessed really dramatic complications, plants and the like, but if we want "happy end", then it is not the adoption of the law, but the adoption of the budget. And I would like the budget to support what we think is right when we set up the Book Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Before continuing with the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, allow me to welcome young ladies and gentlemen on the balcony, students of the 5th grade of Bled Elementary School. Welcome to our house! As we say, we continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Ambassador Marjetka Uhan will give the position of Ambassador Group Nova Slovenija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Minister with co-worker, MEPs and young visitors, have a nice day! In Novi Slovenija we will support the Law on the Public Book Agency. We are advocates of the use of the Slovenian word, which is important in both Slovenian and foreign spaces, in all segments of society and in every field. And since the book is a fundamental vehicle for language development, we are convinced that it is the book that needs more attention. This can be demonstrated by the country's concern for the book, and I hope to say that the country is also the one who can do more to keep the Slovenian book. Because globalisation pressures have unfortunately brought with them effects that lead to the increasing use of literature in foreign languages, and it seems that foreign literature will soon prevail, and finally the use of foreign language. The public agency for the book represents an important step towards greater respect for the Slovenian language and the use of the Slovenian book. With new added value in the development of the Slovenian book, which is certainly produced by the public agency, its coordinating and implementing role, more effective funding in the field of the book, promotion of authors, books and reading will certainly contribute to greater concern for the preservation of the Slovenian language, as well as greater awareness of the importance of the Slovenian language and Slovenian book. Therefore, as we say, we will support this law in New Slovenia. We will also support the amendment of the coalition and the LDS Club to Article 6, which offers some compromise between the Government and the professional for the benefit of the profession, and because they have agreed, we will also support this amendment in New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party is followed. My colleague, Marjan Drofenik, will present his position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. In the Slovenian People's Party, we always stress the importance of Slovenian culture and Slovenian language, whose development and existence are most assuredly provided by Slovenian book. We therefore understand that the Public Book Agency is being set up to ensure the existence and development of the Slovenian book and thus the Slovenian language. The Agency will carry out individual tasks which cannot be carried out within the Ministry of Culture and Higher Education, Science and Technology, depending on their nature and nature. This will, in our view, also bring about the wish of literary creators and publishers. It will be easier and more organised to carry out national presentations of Slovenian beauty and scientific ubiquitism abroad and to connect with comparable international organisations, all with a view to providing new sources of funding, the possibility of obtaining non-budgetary sources of book funding and other tasks. In the Slovenian People's Party, we welcome the positive compromise between the Ministry of Culture and the Association of Slovenian Writers on membership in the world of the public agency and will therefore support the harmonised amendment to Article 6. We are confident that the adoption of the law will be done very much for the Slovenian book and perhaps even a slightly easier life for those who deal with the Slovenian book as authors, translators or publishers. And this is not the last thing that will be useful for the Slovenian book. The Slovenian People's Party will be happy to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. On the basis of the list of applicants, Member Jakob Preseknik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I will not repeat the reasons why I will support this law with great joy, because my fellow Member has just given an explanation to the Group of Members. But I can't help but talk to you about this amendment to Article 6. The last time it was a long, I don't know, two hours and 50 minutes, I got a magnetogram, of which 80% was on article 6 or the composition of the world. I don't know who the madman is here right now, whether we're Members of the coalition, whether it's the Ministry, or whether it's Comrade Grims. Mainly, the matter could be, I firmly believe that if more will had been done at that time, it would have been resolved earlier and probably saved 2 hours and 50 minutes of discussion or could have been reduced to a positive 30 minutes, so there was a negative discussion of almost three hours, but good. The last time we were accused of duplicity in the second law was because we had withdrawn an amendment that was good, which I now claim was unfortunately not adopted, but we withdrew it because we could not harmonise it. And it seems to me that it was the right move, and I have listened to the criticism at this session again, and I must say that I am almost sorry that I was not more forced to enforce the amendment. It's not about this marriage. It's about another marriage. Here, however, I regard as an extremely positive move that you have agreed on an amendment in the third reading, the amendment to Article 6. However, unfortunately, as it has been said, why the discussion was necessary, not only was it 2 hours and 50 minutes, but the content of this discussion needs to be read and then the question is whether this duality would make it better even to vote against it. But since he's positive, of course I'll vote yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u43	Thank you very much. To my word, Ambassador Majdo Potrato. Member of the Parliament, Dr. Slavko Gaber, has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Aleš Gulič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Obviously, we will not discuss much today about the Public Book Agency or just the amendment. As I said before, in the previous session, I support the law and it is time to arrange these things as we might have arranged them. I also support the amendment to Article 6. And unlike my colleague, I think it is okay that we have discussed certain things and have also come to conclusions that bring better solutions and take into account the comments and suggestions of the Writers' Society.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Mitja Slavinc. He's not here. The text has been sent by Joseph Scholch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u46	Thank you very much. So, all I'd do is lean on my colleague the President when I start talking, and I'll say that I'm not sorry that we talked about this for a few hours, because we've talked about some important things that we've talked about, and there's nothing left. From this point of view, I'm going to say, this invested time is still relatively fast to come up with some kind of agreement. But as has already been said here by colleagues from the post, it is important that at the end of this debate we can all support such a solution. Therefore, I do not think it makes sense to rekindle all those debates that have been back, but I could also be a good eater and amuse you, even though at this point the vast majority of people do not have an interest in talking about it. What matters to me, however, and I have already spoken on behalf of the parliamentary group, is that the law itself, like all other laws, is only an opportunity and a basis. I have no doubt that there have been a lot of reflections in the Ministry on all of this, but there is another side. In order to achieve certain objectives, sufficient resources must be made available. The resources that the Government is now taking from various items, I will say, to the title of the Book Agency, and according to my opinion and behaviour will not be sufficient at this time for all the ambitions that people who will see this agency will have. See, since this agency will not be addressed only by literature at this time, this will in fact also be the address for the dissemination of publications from the scientific field, this will be the title for the promotion of literature and scientific literature in the world, and these resources will certainly be insufficient. If we want to make good use of this instrument and it will result in the benefits of all Slovenian culture in the broadest sense of the word, then it is necessary to think that certain actions related to the promotion of Slovenian scientific and cultural achievements in the world need greater resources than we have so far dedicated. And that is why I remind you again of the additions that have been made to the budget that allow this agency not to embark on its path in the beginning with great ambitions and, in my opinion, too little resources. Otherwise, we will find ourselves in a time-consuming situation where some people may be dissatisfied and will accuse this minister or the next or the next minister, if you have not provided enough funds for these purposes. Therefore, it is really important that you think in the coalition of these things, if it was time, believe that the people who pressured you and who pressured us to explain to you the meaning of increasing these funds. And my proposal is to try to support this and these fruitless discussions, which is the end of what my colleague Presecnik was talking about, then there will be no more. If someone really thinks that this agency can achieve all these goals, which are highly set, then it cannot expect them to do so without financial assistance. And that's the point of my intervention, and I'd like to not argue about it, but maybe at the start we can agree on that. We have an ideal opportunity, we have a solution around which we all agree that it is better than the initial offer, and we have the opportunity to show to the Government that it makes sense to invest in the promotion of Slovenian culture also through this agency and during the presidency and later, when Slovenia fights for its share of attention, such an agency can be an important instrument of promotion. It will certainly not promote the LDS, nor the SDS, nor the SD, nor the political leaders, but the minds that we are proud of in the past, and those that can now step on different platforms and stages in culture and science in Europe and the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I have expressed my support for the Proposal for a Law on the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia and I have expressed the position of the Group of Members in this regard. When solutions are good, there is not too much discussion in the National Assembly, nor does such discussions accompany a negative debate. For this reason, I fully agree with my colleague, the Intercessor, so that we can solve these problems at second reading. After all, members of the opposition in the second discussed the proposal with the first-signed colleague of the School of Amendment, which they actually prepared in the Society of Slovenian Writers. Well, with one month's delay, this issue has also been resolved. After all, the Public Book Agency will be in charge if we look at the 2005 data, which is 7 million 175 thousand euros, which is not enough funds. Although other ministries have additional resources in the state budget for the book and the magazine press and other similar things, so that the State budget actually subsidises the book with a little more than €9 million, which is not such a small resource. The new way of financing the book provided by the public agency will also allow resources to be obtained from other sources, not just from the state budget. As we say, we will support this marriage. We regret, however, that the coalition did not take this solution into account in the second reading, only to listen to the opposition's amendment. We, with our proposals, do not impose coalitions, but try to be constructive and we expect that in the future also from the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the debate on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Mrs. Shirca, you're telling me something, but I can't read what you tell me with your fingers. Excuse me? Time has stayed, but you probably know the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and you know there's still an amendment in the procedure where you can apply. This is a practice we had last year, all those years ago. Thank you. So we are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 22.11.2007. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS, DeSUS and LDS parliamentary groups. I am opening an application procedure for the debate on this amendment. Here you go. Member Maja Shirca has the word, and if the Minister assesses it, he will apply himself with a raise of arms. The word is by Ambassador Maja Shirtz, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u50	The amendment, which we will support, is the fruit, as we have heard many times today, of certain pressures, coordinations and ultimately of hearings. There has been a protest by the Association of Slovenian Writers, there has been a long conversation not only with the second, but also before the Committee and the National Assembly, in order for the Agency to function in a way that makes it as autonomous as possible. Its autonomy is needed not only because it will have all the resources for literature in Slovenia, but also because it will participate in policy-making in the field of literature and publishing, not only humanities, but also science. The pressures for this agency to be formed in the most appropriate way came from the National Council for Culture did not come from the Government's Strategic Council for Culture and Science, because this world is silent on all issues; a world that advises the Prime Minister on culture and science. More or less, we know that it is, indeed, that it publishes a beautiful publication, but it is silent, even when it is probably necessary to speak, if I mention at least the last events that we witnessed at the celebration are devoted to the memory of reform and have been more in terms of counter-reform. However, let me point out something, and here I deeply agree with the debates that have so far focused on the budget and the fact that there is no provision in the Agency's Law that would be more binding on the stable financing of the book, that is to say, the return of the tax from the book itself. This concerns me because, in some ways, it is also linked to the budget, which we are also adopting for 2009, not just in 2008, and according to the data you have on the budget, however, literature and publishing in 2009 is indexed with 96% of the index, which means that it does not have one that takes into account, as in other areas, at least inflation, anything else. This is said to be not so important for the 2009 Minister or the Ministry and Government who prepared this budget. We know that there are elections in between, but the future should also be more stable at a time when there are not so many accounts of the government for how it will deal with the book in the future. In short, it would be important to look more into the future in a financial sense, even because we know that the law on certain critical cultural programmes, the so-called cultural tolar, which is partly affected by the book's policy, will be dried up in 2008; it is said in the following year, but we have not actually heard yet whether anything will replace it or not. And this law covers the area of libraries that the public agency will not cover, but the book is linked to the life and pulse of public libraries and libraries in general, in a way that is now unknown. How it will be when the cultural tolar is dried up, including for the field of library network and bookstores or publishing, which has some support within the title. Here from the budget, and Minister, I will gladly listen to your explanations, within the 2008 and 2009 budget there is no recognition of what will replace those items in the tolar area when it is no longer to be. I hope that even more and that you will make one last effort to extend the pulse and life of this source, which has lived and lived once better, once worse, but it has meant an important correction for interventions to certain emergency programmes. But speaking of books or publishing, let me mention another frantic and painful information or solution that is not a solution. Minister, when you arrived, not only at "hearing", but when you arrived at the government, when you arrived at the National Assembly and when you came before the Slovenian public, you assured yourself that you would make sure that the National and University Library would be built. If we look at the budget, we see that there are no funds for NUK and that the pressures are enormous. And also that those questions that somehow became the construction of the NUK are still under question, being saved, as I know, and you have not listened to this recovery and to these plans. And that's what he's worried about, because in the end, you leave future governments to great commitments, especially before your unfulfilled promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Member Samo Bevk and later Minister are also included in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Regarding the cultural tolar mentioned by colleague Majda Širc, i.e. I myself proposed both laws, the first was adopted in 1998 and the second law will be implemented next year. Well, in the middle of last month, I gave a written initiative to the Minister for Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, and we also discussed this on the home Committee for Culture. The Home Committee on Culture has even adopted a special decision recommending that this law be extended to the Ministry. Well, and yesterday I also received a written reply from Minister Simoniti, who also accepts this parliamentary initiative and says that they are already preparing an extension and some substantive amendments to this law. So I hope that we will extend the Law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture for the period 2009 to 2013 and implement all those programmes that are contained in it. Of course, we will only be able to implement them if we also provide more resources in the state budget for culture in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u53	Thank you very much. And the Minister will close the debate. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, I'm glad you're all actually supporting the Public Book Agency Act. I think he's really good, well-intentioned, and that he allows and gives those grounds and opportunities for the book's area to actually get a new impetus, one would say, even greater autonomy in this sense, that they will be affected, so to speak, by those who are most vitally dependent on it, of course, also get a completely exclusive word and that within this agency they will also have to accept their responsibility, which I do not doubt. I would not like to see all these comments made to give rise to some kind of bitterness, in fact, while at the same time we all support or support this law, at least as I understand it, but I would not like it to be a bad taste in some of the things that have been said here. And I would just like some minimal additions or answers to things that I think are not part of the scope of this law that we are adopting today, but I would like to make some use of this space and a good purpose under good law to suggest other things as well. There's been a mix-up since the RTV Act, and I'm not gonna answer that, and there's been talk about burning books, and so on, which I find a little inappropriate. But I'm probably going to give the initiative to have a board at the Vevce Paper, where books were burned at some other time in fact with a much larger scale than when they were spoken and ideologically spent some time 500 years ago or 400 years ago, which is actually a little strange that history is being used for the present and history is being denied to be history, but it's a present, which is a bit of a waste. But that's just by the way. I'd say the main thing was that there was a lot of resistance, that there was pressure in connection with Article 6. I would not agree, of course they were also polemic tonnes or raised tonnes, but in this regard Article 6 was a fundamental thing in that we felt or thought today that our proposal of Article 6 was very competent, okay, it also allowed this majority of 4:3 to simplify, it was a matter of appointment. The proposal that we had at second reading, where it was said that the world would be made up of six members and that it would be 3:3, and that I would not renew how then, who would have the ruling voice, would not have been appropriate. And these, in my opinion, are not pressures, but one clear open debate has led to the fact that the society of writers has then prepared a new proposal, which we have debated and which in no way in any way threatens, one would say what we have proposed, but that it is complementing to a certain extent for the better, and we felt great or good, and therefore, of course, we also supported it in common satisfaction, in my opinion, quite all. So I see nothing wrong with this debate, of course it was. Here it was said that more resources should already be provided or that the resources they will provide do not constitute a stable source. No, I say they mean a stable source, as they mean a stable source for all other areas of art for those areas to which the funds are allocated. The book, however we want to talk about it, to simplify it, in the notes of "sacredness", one would say that today all kinds of art are equally important and that it is also necessary to give certain attention to other art, financially, if you want, from which some creativity grows. However, we give the book with the agency one special emphasis and, as I said, the possibilities and grounds for this area to be even more alive. I, or at the Ministry, was particularly interested in the fact that more emphasis is placed on creativity, creativity and, in fact, authors, those who are actually affected by the fact that they receive one proper reward and validity. That is why we have also increased funds for authors in the last two years, at least for those books that the Ministry has subsidised. I so hope that they will continue to follow this commitment. Authors, especially authors, are important, those who are creative and create things that we admire, but we can't, for example, because we don't always have to be satisfied, but, however, we need to open up creativity in my opinion. It is also within this book that spectrum, which has been articulated in recent years and far from thinking that only this ministry has done something for the book. No, no, no. It was said, or not said, this is logical, it has progressed, even in the previous term, attention has been paid to the book, but now it has concentrated all that energy that has accumulated in the last 15 years, 16 years, and it has come to an agency for a book that actually, in my opinion, provides a better basis for it. In this regard, of course, also for promotion. The agency will be able to do more at the promotion and will also be able to provide additional funds or obtain additional funds for promotion and thus further affirm the Slovenian book if you want, at home and in particular abroad. But these mechanisms have been in the past years, and I must say, they've been highly articulate, and they've also been based. Of course, listen now, and financial resources are never enough in any area, if I'm being completely honest. Well, we'd want more everywhere. However, the book is provided, in my opinion, with a good basis and a good chance that, as such, it will live even better. As regards the 2009 budget. All those who have been in politics for a long time, you know how these two-year plans are designed, are also rebalans and so on, and I do not believe that this index will be worse everywhere. It is, however, one of the main orientations and then, through the debate, this budget is formed and is properly rewarded. But once again, a stable source also through budgetary resources is for both the book and other artistic areas. However, I believe that the Book Agency will also use all the possibilities it has in this area. With regard to the cultural tolar, it seems to me that it has been correctly reported from Mr Bevk what the Ministry of Culture is preparing, and I do not think there will be any particular fear here. But you will probably have your comments, wishes and so on. My desire or desire of the Ministry is that, above all, from 1998 onwards, as has been said, and once again, not all projects will be completed with either first or second tranche. It would be good to really end them. However, this cultural tolar does not depend solely on - this is what I, naively, or in ignorance, thought that it could be carried out faster, because cultural tolar is also dependent on the environment in which a particular thing is being carried out, and must provide certain funds and so on, and it is always impossible to realize. However, the realization of the cultural tolar has reached a higher level in the last two years than it has in previous years, so that there was no such fear. This is where the NUK interfered and is used in this law, which we today adopt and we all understand as something good and positive, but other things of NUK interfere and so on. We know exactly where the powers are, the Ministry of Culture has supported and supported it, what has been done in these two years, and the powers of the Ministry of Science and Technology, this is not a matter of imposing responsibility, this is a matter of competence, a person would say where this is happening, but I think that the Minister of Culture has also done something to save some space, land and so on. I believe and hope that the next year NUK will start to build, but it is not really up to me, but I accept responsibility to the extent that I have supported this, and I hope that this will happen. So, once again, I am pleased that you have all expressed your support for this new law, which means indeed a new quality, a new possibility in the field of the book, which will be able to successfully or more successfully develop your desires, so to speak, through people and creativity will also be more confirmed, but I think that the Slovenian book will also be better confirmed and recognized abroad. I would therefore ask that we do not, however, remain in this law, which we all support, in the undertone of any sneer and suggestion and any other problems that do not at this time judge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate on Article 6 and we have also concluded the debate on the amendments tabled because only one amendment has been tabled. So, we will vote on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote in half an hour, that is at 12.20. Until then, I'm adjourning the session. I thank the Minister for once for his participation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, please take your seats. We are moving on to the end of the current session, so we have only a vote ahead. Members and Members of Parliament have been asked to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. So, on the left hand side of the voting card, there must be a yellow light. Please check this out. I won't take any later complaints into consideration. So, we continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Research and Development Activities in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, no third reading amendments could be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I hereby inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, which is an amendment to Article 6, under which the SDS, NSI, SLS, DeSUS and LDS are signed. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have also ended our vote on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I also inform you here that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that the law would be inconsistent, so we can go to the vote. We're voting. 61 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this agenda item; I conclude the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Have a nice weekend and I'll see you Monday!
