ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u1	Dear Members! We're moving to 18. Agenda item - Update on the activities of the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the time of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union from January to June 2008. The Committee for the Affairs of the European Union and the Committee on Foreign Policy provided information to the meeting. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Supplementary Presentation Committee. Mr. Bones, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members! The interest in the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union by the Slovenian Parliament was enormous, but at its 34th urgent meeting of 9.11. together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, under the 1st item of the agenda, the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union considered a proposal for information on the activities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia during the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union from January to June 2008. The content was confirmed in the work relating to the starting points for the meeting of the European Union Committees on Energy and the Environment, which will be held in Ljubljana on 21 January 2007. However, additional explanations were given by mag. Branko Grims, President of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, presented the starting points for the meeting of the presidents of the Committees on Culture, Education and Sport of the European Union Parliaments, which will be held in Ljubljana on 14 April 2008. The president of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Marjeta Uhan, presented the starting points for the meeting of the presidents of the Committees on Agriculture of the European Union Parliaments, which will be held in Ljubljana on 2 and 3 June 2007. I myself presented two events to be prepared by the Committee on European Union Affairs during the Presidency, namely the meeting of the Presidents of the European Parliamentary Committees for European Affairs and the Presidential Troika Conference of the European Parliaments for European Affairs, so-called Cosac, to be held in Ljubljana on 18 February 2008 and the 39th regular meeting of the European Union Committees on European Affairs, to be held in Brdo on 7 and 8 May 2008. The entire material has been prepared on the basis of the substantive starting points of the committees transmitted by the President of the National Assembly on 23 October 2007 to the competent committees. The following conclusions were adopted. At its 34th emergency meeting on 9 November 2007, the Committee of the National Assembly for the Affairs of the European Union adopted information on the activities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia during the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union from January to June 2008, and was informed that the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport would subsequently address the sent starting points for meetings of committee presidents. Furthermore, the conclusion; the information for the plenary session of the National Assembly should be supplemented by the content of the interparliamentary meetings and any other events to be organised by the National Assembly during the Presidency. On 29 November 2007, the Committee was also provided with substantive points of reference which the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport considered and adopted at its 16th emergency meeting, 16.11.2007. At the same time, the information was supplemented by information on joint parliamentary meetings and joint committee meetings. At its 114th regular session, on 7 December 2007, how did the European Union Committee on European Union Affairs consider the supplementary information on the activities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia during the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union from January to June 2008? Following a discussion in which it was pointed out that the information still does not cover all the activities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, for example, the activities of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, France Tsukjati, adopted the following decision; the Committee of the National Assembly for the Affairs of the European Union, at its 114th regular meeting, on 7 December 2007, also adopted the supplementary information on the activities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia during the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union from January to June 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Before we come to the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, I would like to remind you that if the debate on this item is not concluded by 16:00, we will continue the debate at the end of the questions sent. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member and Members! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we welcome the fact that Slovenia will chair the European Union as the first of the new Member States. This is undoubtedly a major challenge for our country, and even more so the opportunity for Slovenia, in addition to the quality and proper leadership of the European Union, to promote our country. Our common concern must be that, at a time when the European and global public will be particularly attentive to Slovenia, we will prove that we are a mature country with clear guidelines and many development options. During the Presidency of Slovenia, the European Union will host meetings of the working bodies of the Member States of the European Union and the European Parliament. In the work of all working bodies, it is our task to make concrete substantive proposals and to present our views transparently on specific issues and specific content. The main topics to be addressed in accordance with information on the activities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia during the Presidency are, in particular, energy and climate change, intergenerational solidarity, the question of the Western Balkans, in particular Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina, intercultural dialogue, the Lisbon Strategy and the area of European agricultural policy. There is much to be said about each of these. The Slovenian People's Party would focus on two topics, which are important components of our programming guidelines, namely intergenerational solidarity and agricultural policy, or healthy food. Co-existence between social groups and generations ensures the safety and satisfaction of all people in Slovenia. The gradual ageing of the population, with an increasing share of the active population, requires a new approach to the search for intergenerational solidarity. This requirement, in addition to the urgent concern of the active generation for the decent survival of the age of the elderly, also the willingness of the elderly to waive certain rights that will enable young people to work actively and successfully and to ensure the economic and other progress of society. We believe that the ambition of young people, in close cooperation with the experience and knowledge of the elderly, can ensure the rapid development of our society. We encourage discussion, the search for common ideas and solutions and the achievement of mutual effects between younger and older generations. We believe that these are ideas, content that other countries of the European Union are aware of and that are essential to preserving social security in Europe. Agriculture, which is also the largest consumer of European funds, has always been important as the basic economic sector for the processing of food and raw materials for the processing industry. Family farms are on the market together with European agriculture, high technology and mass production. The competitiveness of a large number of Slovenian farms with Europeans is not comparable, so farms leave production because they are too small, unorganised and cannot compete on the global market as such. The future development of agriculture in the SLS is seen in strengthening farms that will be able to set clear agricultural development guidelines in Slovenia in the third millennium. We strive to produce quality and healthy food, to maintain a healthy environment with special emphasis on clean air and clean groundwater and on rural areas, as a living area that satisfies the ethnic, cultural and social aspects of living. We believe that these orientations can be taken into account in the European Union's strategy, and our thinking in this area will also go in this direction. To conclude, I might only add that during the Presidency the interests of the state of Slovenia must be ahead of our and internal political interests. I believe that Slovenia will perform its task as President-in-Office of the European Union perfectly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u6	Dear President! A colleague and [[..]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Nine, ten colleagues. [[...]] Yesterday, with respectable colleague Aleš Gulic, home from Trbovlje regardless of political colours, we received the attention of national television from the Czech Republic. Because they are interested, they are interested in how Slovenia prepares what Slovenia wants, what Slovenia will have when it holds its presidency. So, Czech national television came to Trbovlje, today it is in Ljubljana and will visit other Slovenian cities. When we spoke at many meetings of the College of the National Assembly, our fellow Members and colleague, there were countless disputes which committees would like to meet during the Presidency of the State of Slovenia to the European Union. Countless fights. Today, unfortunately, with all due respect and here I must say - thank you, Mr President, here is the confirmation of your work, of the work of the Committee on the European Union, and of our work, we see how much interest this National Assembly has in the Presidency of the European Union. It is true that the government is that "government" yesterday we had a foreign language - 23 languages in the European Union, indeed, yes. But, State Assembly, I have been Vice-President of the Committee or Commission for European Affairs for seven years. Seven years! And it has always been said: 'Parliament is a bond between the people, the country and the European Union' Parliament - we are the bond because we have to give people the awareness that people, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, are also citizens of the European Union at the same time. The Slovenian national party was a Eurosceptic party, and when Lord Greenfield once told me, "If you want to join the club, you have to respect the rules." I got it. And when Slovenia decided, in a large percentage, to go to the European Union, we also respect these rules in the Slovenian National Party, and we respect the rules of the game. They did. And we have to, but obviously this House, it really saddens me, no. The President said the last time you had a particular debate that he was the only Member and himself present, which, of course, I am speaking to myself, I was absent abroad, otherwise I would have been present, Mr President. It saddens me. We have the honour, as the first one, and I do not mean in the debilitating, God forbid, God forbid, in good faith, as the first one; we are called, as the communist countries of Eastern Europe, to preside over the European Union. I don't have prejudices, there's been a lot of good things in the past, and there's been a lot of good things in the past, and there's been a lot of bad things in the past, just like there's always been in life. We first have this honour, which we have shown in this House in this way. The Committee on European Affairs is constantly working to correct it. We have taken the Scandinavian model, by which we want and want cooperation between the National Assembly, which is the link between people and Europe, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the knowledge that people know what we are talking about, what we are going to do in this Europe. The first and only one we insist on doing so. But obviously we're not interested. I'm sorry. I'd like to talk about the content you all know. The information is clear, we have point A, we have point B, we know what we're going to talk about. But whether it is fair to citizens and citizens and that it tells you, do not insult me, Eurosceptic, that we are the least Eurosceptic people, because we are not interested, except in your exceptions. The lectures were like that, those who came to the exam got hurt, that's how it is. The few of us are something that we are now here talking about what we are going to do during the presidency. What Slovenia will achieve during this Presidency, what Slovenia will show the world, Europe, who we are and what we are, how important we are. Small by number, but we're big, big, even though there's only two million of us. We will be the first of all these countries to preside over Europe. Our goal is to let Europe know that Slovenia is that it has mountains, that it has ski resorts, that it has the sea, that it is one of the most beautiful countries. And that we respect the rules of the game because that's what we agreed on, even if we might not want them. We also respect them in the Slovenian National Party because we owe them to all Slovenes and Slovenes who have decided as we have decided. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to say that the National Assembly, that the Committee on European Affairs and its members have sought and created a programme that we have before us, with which we will wish the world, not only Europe, but also the world, to show that Slovenia is a beautiful, beautiful, democratic country and also wants to be an honest country. However, I am really disappointed that the response is just the way it is in this National Assembly. I don't care if they show or not what we say, what we say. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is sad that we are counting and saying that there are two, four, six, eight, ten, twelve, fourteen, sixteen, eighteen, twenty-three. It's sad. And then we'll talk about who doesn't appreciate Parliament and then we'll read to the government, "you take all of us and you don't respect us." With what right if we ourselves are not so conscious that we know that Parliament is the essence of Europe. Without this Parliament, without this link between people and us and you with all the tasks we have, look at them for yourself, and I will not list them for you as some others will. We know what our duty is. I am sorry, I have struggled all the time to achieve and overcome Galileo during the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia and to have a seat in Slovenia, but we will not have one. I am interested in our position on the issue of Kosovo and on the serious military hotspot that can be created in this space, especially because we have many Slovenian soldiers there. I regret that we cannot talk today about other issues that have been raised by the open Slovenia from environmental issues to a wide range of open issues that we will not be able to show. The President of the Committee on European Affairs and the members of the Committee on European Affairs have said a lot of problems and problems, we have opened up questions, some have been taken into account, some have been taken into account, but we must resolve them and, last but not least, the biggest question is the question which has been raised by a journalist of Czech national television to me and my respected colleague, Mr Gulic, and what will the State of Slovenia achieve and have since the Presidency. I want an answer to that question. I would like Galileo, I would like peace in Kosovo and I would like the great economic development of the State of the Republic of Slovenia. And I think that you too, colleagues and colleagues, here we have to be united and we are united, we all set foot in this club, we all live in it, we all give and we all win, we win, that's the question. I call on the government to receive as much as possible, but please be respectful of our country at the time of the presidency and show pride that we, however, are the Slovenian Parliament, the first and most important branches of power and respect, although we do not have a minister, let us respect at least the chairman of the Committee, the Vice-President of the Committee and the members of the Committee on European Affairs. We're not playing games, we're not kidding, we're going to Europe for real.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Time's up, Mr. Barovich. Mr. Magg has the word. Grims on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. And to all colleagues who show a positive attitude towards the very important challenge ahead of us with my presence in this Chamber, let me start by thanking you very much. A colleague who spoke to me set up a somewhat unusual starting point in the light of a story that took place about a month ago. In fact, when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia tied the issue of its confidant to the leadership of the European Union and only to the leadership of the European Union, the whole opposition voted unitedly against and thus objectively and clearly renounced its cooperation in leading the European Union, gave up its responsibilities and gave up all the results that this leadership will bring. This is very important and concerns the entire area of the executive branch of power, which in fact has a much greater role to play in managing it than Parliament. This is the European regime. Of course, this does not mean that the role of Parliament, where I hope the opposition will act differently, is irrelevant. On the contrary, I consider it to be very important, because each Parliament in itself is essentially a fundamental place of democracy. That's too often forgotten. The executive branch of power also exists in non-democratic systems, even in Slovenia in the past decades. Of course, a democratically elected parliament, which is sufficient with the standard of democracy, as set out by political science, exists only in democratic societies. What needs to be stressed, therefore, from the outset, is that this responsibility, which the ruling coalition and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia take with their decision to lead the European Union, will be an exceptional one. For now the signing of the Lisbon Declaration shows the real possibility that this will in fact be a shortened form of the European Constitution, including established, definitively adopted, ratified by all members and enforced. In practice, this means that Slovenia has only once in history, and this is an opportunity to lead the entire European Union on its own. Therefore, without any patheticness, we can talk about responsibility, our shared responsibility before history. From this point of view, it is necessary to commend the preparations that have been made so far, covering such an executive and also the one we are specifically talking about today, which is the legislative branch of power. Parliament is well prepared to lead the European Union. We've actually drawn all the essentials in the last few months. It's all about implementation now. Parliament has decided on topics which are consistent with the commitments made by Slovenia to the institutions of the European Union and which are also in line with the fundamental interests that our country must have exercised in the external and political spheres of its leadership of the European Union. Let me just list some that are most important and that are also covered in the material that is ahead of us. They cover the areas of ecology, that is, the preservation of our living environment, in connection with the supply of energy, which is also an extremely important topic and inseparably linked to the first one, because the warm events, the weather stories we witness every day, are those that point out that this is a topic that will certainly have greater and greater meaning in the coming years and decades. This is also linked to the next priority that our country has decided on - this is a question of agriculture. Agriculture, which may not be a key sector in Slovenia today, as it may have been at the beginning of the previous century. But it is still a key industry that is once again gaining greater importance in the period when food prices are being bulging around the world, and in particular this is true for the European Union. This is said to be an area worth paying adequate attention to. The third area is intergenerational solidarity. We're a country, one of the countries, unfortunately, the fastest to age. And that's why intergenerational solidarity is extremely important, and every day is more important. The fact is that during this term we have experienced something that we can all just say hello to - the birth trend has turned. Today we record a positive increase again. But this does not distance us to that basic message, to the topic of intergenerational solidarity in any way, because intergenerational solidarity does not only cover the elderly, it also covers the younger generations. And, of course, we come to a topic that I personally give to myself, and also in our Group of Members - this year is an introduction to the year ahead of us, leading the European Union in 2008, which will be the year of intercultural dialogue. In order to pay particular attention to this subject, the State of Slovenia has committed itself to the institutions of the European Union and has therefore accepted the relevant emphasis. On this occasion, however, I would like to express my own great desire, which I have kept in the background a little while longer. It means that this intercultural dialogue would be taken very seriously by all and that it would also be implemented within the borders of the country of Slovenia. For intercultural dialogue is not only a dialogue between religions, as is often the case on one hand; nor is it just, I don't know, a respectful talk about different groups, such as the Roma, far from it. Intercultural dialogue is much, much more and is taking place at different levels, at levels of dialogue, between individuals, between groups within one society, one country and, of course, taking place at an interstate level and also at a level that could actually be regarded as global. This is the first thing we need to know about intercultural dialogue. The second point to be made is that intercultural dialogue by definition means an open and respectful exchange of views between individuals and groups of different ethical, cultural, religious and linguistic social environments and heritage. This is the definition of intercultural dialogue that I can first present in this National Assembly and is summarised in the European Union White Paper on intercultural dialogue, which has been in existence for a long time in the draft. And two more needs to be pointed out. Intercultural dialogue is not and cannot be a one-way process. For its success, it is essential that all those participating in it be prepared to accept each other's arguments, as well as an urgent mutual understanding between all those participating in this process. And third, which is extremely important, is that intercultural dialogue can in fact only be implemented with full freedom and responsibility of the media and of all holders of the public word. And now let's put this in the light of our current situation. Here Slovenia can actually present some very positive experiences. It can highlight some of its strategic interests, in particular here I underline the issue of Slovenian language. On the other hand, of course, it is necessary to say that intercultural dialogue and this year will not bear those fruits that we could if we do not accept them on our own. And here I firmly underline the word by all those involved in this process. In fact, why am I stressing it like that? Many times we have been faced with certain inappropriate statements, including in this National Assembly about coffee and who would go with someone for coffee, which is then given very much attention. But as a rule, the public appreciates, correctly evaluates, and rejects these things very well. The problem arises when this hate speech, which in fact represents the negativity of intercultural dialogue, is two completely contradictory notions, so embedded in public discourse, in public discussion that no one actually notices its presence and when, from this hostile speech, there are even individual actions. That this is, in fact, sometimes so in Slovenian society, let me draw attention only to two really very, very burning cases that go far, far and far from European practice and from European standards. One is the relationship to our past half history. Ask yourself how many times you've been in this National Assembly, and in various media, you've heard about that concept of bone count. In fact, it is likely that no one has refrained from realizing that it is in fact a very bad form of hate speech, which, according to the international acts ratified by Slovenia, can even commit a crime. For these international acts, which are now being used in our Constitution, can also be directly - unfortunately, I have not yet seen these practices of Slovenian courts - speak very clearly to commit a crime also by those who demean or defile or make fun of a crime against humanity or genocide. And in Slovenia, there can be a lot of philosophical debates on whether that event in time after World War II was actually a crime against humanity, whether it was a real political genocide, but in fact the relationship in both cases is the same and for this reason it is necessary to stress this as certainly the biggest problem we have in Slovenia and which already has negative consequences. Look, just a few days ago, the celebration was dedicated to victims of post-war violence, political prisoners and all their relatives, all those who suffered in the totalitarian regime. On the part of the biggest opposition party of the Pahoreva SD, which predicts the arrival of power there, there was not a single visible representative there. With this happened two, this was an act that was in the fundamental, obvious, deepest contradiction to intercultural dialogue, which at the same time gave a very clear signal that for this political force, reconciliation was just a lever that generated time, and now that it is really going, the act is quite the opposite. And on the other hand, it must be said that this means very clearly that they still remember well what was going on at the time, because the motto has been erased, but if they did not remember for sure they would have no reason to be missing at this celebration and there is certainly room for intercultural dialogue still completely open, completely fresh. Another such space is obviously found in relation to believers, to different religions. A colleague of the opposition has made an amendment, which we have also unanimously accepted, which is extremely important and has enriched the material before you today. Let me just read a quick quote. Europe must develop a sensitive attitude towards the delivery of highly marked judgments on religions. That's definitely true. And look, when he suggested it, he mentioned the relationship with the Muslims. I agree with him here, this is certainly a very important element. At the same time, what has been said in this National Assembly and what has been said about this subject in various public debates has been forgotten. There is a Slovenian Catholic church, which is in fact far away the largest religious community in advance qualified to be greedy, possessing everything possible and impossible, wanting to subjugate the youth, wanting only money, being stricken with such and different deviations, and this is generalized. This is as much as you want, just look back at the magnetograms of the debates that are characteristic of the opposition in this National Assembly. This is something that is not European and this is also something that deviates dramatically from the same criteria for all and that this has consequences, it certainly has consequences, you could see for yourself when the cross burned on the shore, the cross that was a monument to the dead in the ship's accident, and this action was shown as, I don't know, a cultural event. A culture that is supposed to cultivate what is beautiful, which is meaningful, which is valuablely positive in man, with this vandalism - to use the right expression, but really has nothing in common, and not with the one that has been proclaimed a symbol that is accepted as its most positive feeling, a large part of the Slovenes, this is Mary with a rat in her lap, and it was said that he who does not like it is impatient. People of God, what kind of society do we live in?Oh, my God! There really is a lot of room here for intercultural dialogue. For intercultural dialogue between different thinkers, for intercultural dialogue between different groups, even for intercultural dialogue between former victims and slaves, as we have seen in the case mentioned at the outset. If we open this space by opening this space in the National Assembly, an interstate meeting on the topic "Intercultural Dialogue", then we have taken a small step for ourselves and a very large one for Slovenia. On behalf of the SDS Group, we call on everyone to take these topics very seriously and to take this step very seriously.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u9	Mr Ferri Horvat has the floor, on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The Honourable Deputy Director of the Office for European Affairs, which I do not currently see, is probably out there. Dear colleagues and friends. For us Members and Members of the Group of the Social Democrats, the importance of the Presidency of the European Union for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is certainly greater than forecast by the modest title, otherwise very correct and comprehensive information, as the material for this debate, or a reflection on the activities of the National Assembly in preparation for the Presidency and concrete activities so far, and, as has already been said, from the presence of Members and Members, since I have such a quick impression that we are not a small number, but that many of us are here, almost half of us, on official duty, because we are accidentally running working bodies that will be the organizers of individual activities here in the National Assembly or we will have to attend meetings in the European Parliament. It is true that the main focus of government activities will be, but the role of the National Assembly is also of great importance, especially with the Treaty of Lisbon just signed, which means strengthening the role of national parliaments. The Presidency of the European Union is a national project. We are aware of this, and not just a government project or just government coalitions. This is a great recognition of Slovenia and a great challenge and responsibility for everything. The government has the most tasks and responsibilities in this regard, but it is not and cannot be alone as has been said in this house, unless, of course, it wants to. In the Group of Social Democrats, most of us, could say almost all of us, all Members and Members, are directly or indirectly through working bodies; colleague Marko is here, who is active in the implementation of the Euro-Mediterranean University project and a number of other colleagues and colleagues who are also involved in various projects that we may not even have a full review of. It will be very important that this cooperation of all Members and Members, or at least the majority, is equally engaged during the exercise of the Presidency, which is coming very rapidly. We cannot agree to the thesis or claim that the one who did not vote as a confidant to the government or as a so-called confidant has not been and is not in favour of the presidency. It is necessary to look at the practice and see how and what happens to words and actions. At the time of preparation for the presidency, the National Assembly played an important role, more than was perceived in the public eye. We probably blame ourselves, not just the public opinion or the media. We have witnessed numerous visits from delegations that are sort of daily, from national parliaments, members and candidates, and from political groups and working bodies of the European Parliament. The competent working bodies discussed the government's programme for the Presidency. Unfortunately, according to our assessment, there were not enough preliminary substantive discussions on Slovenia's priorities for the presidency, and the role of the National Assembly was to a large extent limited to the formal approval of the Government's programme. It's not a criticism of the government itself, but it's probably some responsibility and guilt on both sides. Preparations for the activities of the National Assembly during the Presidency began very early. In preparation for the presidency, the active role of the project group, experts and co-workers of the National Assembly and working bodies organising individual events should be particularly commended. Since I do not have a detailed review of everything, allow me to mention the case of the first event that we will organise on 21 January, this is the meeting of the presidents of the Committees on Energy and the Environment, organized jointly by the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on the Environment and Space, and I would like to highlight the extremely good and good cooperation between the two committee presidents of the committees between the experts, regardless of the fact that we are coming from the coalition, the other from the opposition, and also extremely good and creative cooperation with the competent ministries, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of the Environment and Space, and I am sure that this already shows the substantive starting points as well as other operational preparations that we will carry out this Presidency or this event properly. Given the great challenge and responsibility of the state of Slovenia, it will be necessary to include as many Members and Members of the National Assembly as possible in the Presidency, in particular the management of working bodies, professional co-workers and colleagues and others. It is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the coalition in this National Assembly to draw the entire National Assembly, its working bodies and individual Members and Members to the establishment of substantive positions and the exercise of the Presidency. And finally let me draw your attention to one more thing that I mentioned by the way. We need to do more in the National Assembly to make the activities and events of the National Assembly more public, which unfortunately has not been the case so far. And there's only one sentence at the edge. I miss the increased interest and participation of the economy in this extremely important project, which provides an opportunity and opportunity for greater promotion of the Slovenian economy and tourism and everything else, which is unfortunately not well known in Europe and the world today. I wonder what the reason is. Is it really only on the economy that there is so little interest, or on the government and the competent ministries and services that have not been able to motivate economic operators enough, both small and large, to become more involved in this project, as was the case in neighbouring Austria or in some other countries? So when you ask yourself what we will have from this Presidency, although it is not only the main criteria for the successful implementation of the Presidency, the answer depends to a large extent on how much we know in the economic field and in terms of the promotion from this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Slavinec has the floor, on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! Nice greetings to those who might be present are not, and to those who should be present and who are not, are probably out there. We have heard many times that Slovenia, as the first of the new members, is chairing the European Union. This Presidency has mainly been and has been organised, coordinated at the level of the Government and the Government will, of course, have one of the most important roles. Of course, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has an important role to play in this regard, in particular the committees whose areas are linked to those areas which Slovenia has put as a priority during its presidency. I would like to draw attention to two matters in the Presidency itself. The first is the role of national parliaments and also the way our National Assembly works in the field of European Union affairs, specifically the European Union Affairs Committee. Not long ago, we have proposed an amendment to the legislation governing how the meetings should take place. We have proposed that the meetings should be opened to the public, which was a constructive, positive proposal, in the spirit of the forthcoming Presidency, in the spirit of the changes that can be seen everywhere at the level of the European Union, where the European Union's work with citizens and citizens, i.e. with Slovenians and Slovenians, is strengthened. That the functioning of the European Union should be brought closer to Europeans and Europeans, and that this should not be a distant body. And the National Assembly has this role - the link between the European Parliament on the one hand and citizens on the other. And we regret, of course, that this proposed legislation has not been adopted, that the meetings of the Committee on European Union Affairs are still closed to the public and that, as a result, the National Assembly cannot carry out this mission, cannot pursue this objective, the objective which is also enshrined in the new Treaty of Lisbon of the European Union and which was also defined in the Treaty of Berlin at the recent celebration of the European Union's high jubilee. However, the second point that we see is that the Government, the National Assembly and the Committee on European Union Affairs often take as a skyscraper that does not provide it with all, in particular, concrete data, which makes it difficult to act on one side of the European Committee and, on the other hand, to contribute and achieve its objectives. Some ministries, I will not say everything, commend those who do not do so, but some ministries do not comply with the legislation in force, and some ministers not only do not come, as the law obliges them, to meetings when their agenda is on, but do not even take care of the compensation of the Secretary of State. And all of this makes the work of the National Assembly, the work of the committees, and it does not help and does not contribute to the role of Parliament in order to make the role of the National Assembly as possible and to contribute to the Presidency of the European Union as it might be. Nevertheless, at the LDS, we estimate that the content and scope of the activities of the National Assembly during the Presidency are also well established and that, despite all these obstacles, we will be able to contribute effectively and constructively to the good conduct of the European Union. Now let us also ask ourselves what we want from the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union. We've heard things before. Some views have even raised my doubts about whether we deserve the Presidency of the European Union. We do not see the European Union as something to clear up our internal problems backwards, we do not see the European Union as a place to debate whether it was a political genocide after the war and whether this political genocide was induced by the political genocide of the other side during the war, no, the European Union should deal with the current problem and keep the view forward. We have a problem, we have questions to answer now and of which answers are crucial, what our future life will be like, let's just say climate change, the Lisbon Strategy, so how do we achieve the goal of Europe being the most successful economic environment, and that is what we give the LDS Club the first priority and where we really want our Presidency to be successful. Let me conclude only by trying to do everything, helping to make the Presidency such, but to those who can make it more so, we are also aware that the Presidency should be such that in the end we will not say that we were more papal than the Pope again and that Slovenia was only good at chairing, but the benefits, however, unfortunately, were not as they might have been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u14	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished guests! In the New Slovenia Group, we estimate that the active participation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia as the highest democratic body during the Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union by law is highly desirable, very necessary. The Presidency is a unique opportunity for Slovenia to prove that it is a mature democratic and European country. That is why the role of the parliamentary dimension is crucial to us. We are also bound by the model that was chosen when we entered the European Union, which is the so-called Finnish model of cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly. In the New Slovenia Group, we see that cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly in this purpose of cooperation, such as in Finland, is actually stagnating in some way. Unfortunately, I will have to find that we lack a little more initiative in this area by the Government. I would particularly like to expect, even in the Group of Members, that it would be appropriate for the Government to come forward with a declaration before next year on the work of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union for the following year, where the Slovenian Presidency programme would be more precisely exposed to the Council of the European Union, where the main regulations of the Directive and the other legislative content that the Government wishes to implement during the Presidency would, of course, be more closely exposed to the Council of the European Union's Presidency, and would then be more easily monitored only by the Presidency. I think it would make cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly much easier in the first half of the year. Obviously, we will not experience this declaration for the following year, although it is true that the declaration at the beginning of this year was part of our term of office, but given the content of the Rules of Procedure, which requires that the declaration be submitted on the basis of the annual part of the European Commission, this has not yet been covered. I think that cooperation with the Government, as I said, remains about the same point and will probably remain the same at the time of the Presidency. We observe that some ministries here are very consistent and very consistent in respecting the law. Here I would also like to commend the Government's Service for European Affairs, with which Parliament is most involved, I think this service works well. However, some ministries could make this cooperation significantly better. Of course, this comment I made is still a substitute. These matters can be complemented in substance before the Presidency is actively launched. However, I would like to say a few words about Parliament's work during the presidency. Given that Parliament is to oversee, monitor the work of the Government, not only during the Presidency, but at all times, and that decisions at the level of the European Union constitute a real intervention in the legislation of Slovenia, many times and given that Slovenia is currently in the public eye, not only to the European public, but also to the global public, very exposed, I think it would be good to further strengthen communication or cooperation between the leadership of the National Assembly, the competent committees and the home working bodies. Here I would like, on behalf of the Group of Members, to be more actively involved in the debate on legislative proposals addressed by individual working bodies, so that working bodies can also be prepared to address individual substantive proposals, while at the same time, at the meetings of the respective committees, individual representatives of the Group of Members have more positions developed than we have so far. Unfortunately, these content, which is then adopted by the European Councils, has a direct or indirect impact on the situation and life in Slovenia. And somehow our Parliament is still not aware of that. Of course, I am aware that time is needed, but the time of the Presidency is an exceptional opportunity for this cooperation to be strengthened. In the New Slovenia Group we will also prepare proposals for amendments to the law in this half. There was something before the speech by his colleague Slavinac and also the Rules of Procedure. In fact, we note that the interest in the active participation of the National Assembly by almost all parliamentary groups is actually decreasing and does not increase. The closer we get to the Presidency, the less that interest. In this mandate, we have even deleted certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure, either by my assessment or by our assessment, to the detriment of the more active part of the National Assembly at the level of European affairs. Above all, we would like to see a more transparent distinction between the role of the College of the President of the National Assembly and the competent committees, such as this information that we are considering today is a kind of avoidance in a procedural sense, of course we understand that this Parliament has not yet had such a case, because we have not yet presided over the European Union. However, it is somewhat unusual for the College of the President of the National Assembly to inform Parliament of the activities to be carried out by this Parliament during the Presidency. Here we assess the need to make a few adjustments in this regard as to where the powers of the President or of the College of the President of the National Assembly fall within the meaning of substance. From there, however, substantive matters are only the competence of individual working bodies. Because otherwise we can get into an awkward situation so that, after all, this College can also deal with substantive matters. In this case, the Presidency programme is also a substantive matter. It's not just an organizational matter. In particular, when it comes to deciding who, which committees will chair and what will be the content of this Presidency. In the New Slovenia Group, we will make sure that all these shortcomings are addressed as constructively as possible during the presidency, so that things run as smoothly as possible. Once again to the end, it encourages both the leadership of the National Assembly for better cooperation with working bodies and the Government for even better cooperation, in order to try, indeed, in this first mandate, when we are a member of the European Union, to upgrade the system of action and to achieve truly democratic procedures, both in the Presidency and in the further life and cooperation of the European Union institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Mark Pavlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. I am pleased that during this time young colleagues and colleagues have joined us, whom I warmly welcome. Because otherwise I'd feel like I'm talking to myself, except for both my colleagues and a handful of colleagues. This may at first glance suggest that the Presidency of the European Union does not concern Parliament, but does not concern the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which must not be true. According to the Constitution, the National Assembly is the main branch of power, bound by and given to it by the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in matters of the European Union and is also involved in the so-called international parliamentary diplomacy, which should play a particularly important role in the European Union or during our Presidency. There is at least one project that we can look forward to finding that it brings together both the Government and the National Assembly to bring together parties from the left and right, Members and Members of our Parliament and the European Parliament, with the sad exception of two, but I will not specifically appoint them in the field of establishing a Euro-Mediterranean University based in the Republic of Slovenia. This project speaks eloquently of what is beautifully painted on our backs. I have mentioned many times that we are inventing a variety of slogans "I feel Slovenia" and "On the sunny side of the Alps" and so on. Instead of reading what's on your back. It says on the coat of arms that Slovenia is a European land on the sea side of Triglav. And we must be very pleased and very proud of this maritime orientation. And this is also witnessed by the project of the Euro-Mediterranean University. So let me say a little more about this project also in terms of the activities of our Parliament. The creation of the so-called Euro-Mediterranean Partnership took place in 1995. Also known as the Barcelona Process, which was given to the High Authority in 2004 in the form of the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly. It is a body composed of delegations from 37 countries and we are represented in this Parliament. Our delegation shall be composed of a Vice-President of Magi. Clavora, my friend Yuri, and my trifle. I said 37 states. So this is an even greater supply than the European Parliament, for the members of the European Union. So these are now 27 and 10 countries from North Africa and the Middle East. Some of them still have observer status. For example, Libya, Mauritania. Which means number 37 may have increased during our presidency. In March 2005, our delegation attended the Cairo Assembly for the first time. We then heard here and there the idea that universities in the area should be more connected, not least in the light of international intercultural dialogue. Our delegation supported it. She had already mentioned the possibility for Slovenia to run for office. And immediately after returning to the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology of the country, I sent Mr Zupan a mission on this subject. Unfortunately, the parliamentary initiative did not take on fertile soil at the time. However, I must say that later on, I succeeded in the initiative with the President of the Government himself. That was September 2006. In the same month, the government set up a project group, which in a relatively short period of time carried out its work within a few months and prepared professional bases for the functioning of the Euro-Mediterranean University. What's this all about? Firstly, it is an institution that is not a threat and competition to the existing four universities, but an added value in terms of mobility of professors, students and international programmes. Another time. It's supposed to be a postgraduate institution. So not for a classic university that would be divided into different colleges, but for a university that would only run postgraduate programs after the Bologna process. So Master's degree, doctorate and other forms of education, such as organisation of international conferences, seminars, workshops and could also be listed. What subject comes into play? So to put it all, the red thread of which is the Mediterranean problem, the history of the Mediterranean, the new maritime policy of the European Union, logistics in the Mediterranean. Even winemaking, oenologists. By the way, let me say that the youngest university in Slovenia has a special faculty in this area that plows new ice. What kind of ice? In fact, this university is aware that anyone who has something to say regardless of their academic addresses should have this right. For example, Mr. Klenark is a world-renowned oenologist, but he has no academic titles, but that doesn't mean he shouldn't be teaching in college. And they're supposed to represent that at the new university. The new university is said to have its seat in Slovenia, specifically in Portorož. But it quickly became clear that foreign universities to connect with do not want to communicate excessively with government or parliamentary authorities. Foreign universities are a little more aware of autonomy than ours. Therefore, in October, recently, the Government established a special public institution called the University Centre for Euro-Mediterranean Studies. The main mission of this centre is to lead to the end or to the beginning of the Euro-Mediterranean University. So to prepare everything else to prepare for the solemn signing of the international treaty between the Member States in May - therefore, the most ideal would be 37. - but even if you don't, there'll be ten, fifteen for starters. Then we hope that others will join us. During the presidency, this centre will also work closely with Parliament, including the Government, on several important projects. Let me just say two. The first will be the organisation of an international workshop in cooperation with the European Commission on the new maritime policy of the European Union. The talks are already under way, with the Borg, the European Commissioner for Fisheries and Maritime Affairs and, of course, with his colleagues. We will also organise at least one international conference on governance, intercultural dialogue. There are some other projects I won't be burdening you with. What about our National Assembly? As it is said, we have appointed a special working group to establish the Euro-Mediterranean University at our initiative at a conference or assembly in Tunisia a few months ago. This group met for the first time at the end of October in Rome. The good news is that the second meeting will be held in Ljubljana in February in our National Assembly. I am sure that, in fact, at this meeting, we will only find out what has been done and also receive political support, which is not as important as enforcement, but rather the support of individual governments, but does not harm or give that point to the "i" project. Finally, Mr Vice-President, let me mention just a few more kind remarks concerning the document before us. I don't know if it's possible to make any more changes or not. If we look at page 4, where the point is intended for the substantive starting points for the conference of the presidents of the external political committees of the Member States, I can gladly conclude that the last sentence mentions the Euromed and, in particular, the efforts to establish the Euro-Mediterranean University by adding - with its seat in the Republic of Slovenia. This is no longer a godly desire. This is a fact that is very close to realization. Second. On the next page, on page 5, the item is also 5 entitled "Individual starting points for the meeting of the Chairs of the Committees on Culture, Education and Sport of National Parliaments". Here I miss a single sentence to mention the project of the Euro-Mediterranean University. I can also make this point with regard to point 6 on page 6, which is devoted to the substantive starting points for a conference of the European Union Parliaments' Committees on European Affairs. Indeed, it is a project of such importance, both in the sky and in the historic occasion, that this should be the competence of all parliamentary, governmental and non-governmental committees, organisations, commissions. Because this is the only way we will be able to build a project that will add value to our institutions, our universities and clearly also a project that will contribute mainly and specifically to strengthening intercultural dialogue. What is better than strengthening intercultural dialogue at the Euro-Mediterranean University, which includes Arab members, Israel, in addition to members of the European Union, in short, all countries from North Africa and the Middle East? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, everyone else is present! Earlier in the debate or presentation of the positions of the groups of Members, we have listened to what we will get or what we will have from the Presidency of the European Union. Few have asked themselves otherwise: What does the European Union expect from our Presidency? I think that's the real question we have to ask ourselves for the next six months. For expecting us to get something and not offer the right solutions to alternatives, the possibility of finding dialogue and consensus, is the wrong way. I think that Slovenia is ahead of a historic opportunity when it can, with an appropriate approach to the Presidency, prove that it is a small country. However, a country capable of facing the challenges of the future. I'm pretty sure we're gonna make it. Despite the fact that we have had many strange debates and debates in this building, that we have been faced with some kind of action, I would say, according to a homemade fig in our pocket. Which is not good, which is bad. Which does not strengthen us in the belief that we are united in this project, that we are thinking the same way and that we will act in the same direction. But I must say that these last discussions delight me and strengthen me in the conviction that I have been cultivating in myself all the time, that no matter how different we look at this internal-political scene, we are still so mature that we will work together in this project, which must be our common Slovenian project. This is also why it is not important to ask questions that some people are still asking about and talk about, because we will not get anything, but how much it will cost us. And then we give very much weight to lies, distorted information. As was one of those chairs for that centre where most of the events on the Hill would take place, and where it was said, 1,500 euros would stand every chair where those who would deal with it would sit. No one announced that the most expensive chair was just over 200 euros. And that's not the most important thing. The approach is important. What really matters in this story is what matters. Because if I went to such a level, to such a populist opposition level, I would say, just as there is no need for an army, there is no need for a presidency. But it's gonna cost us about as much as we did when we didn't buy the inadequate 8X8 Krapans, but Patrie. About that much, we saved 50 million euros there. But that's not the level of this debate. And I think that these discussions have come together in the last period with this connotation is not a good journey to what they are supposed to do in the next six months. It is undeniable that the group that has been looking forward to preparing all the activities related to the presidency has done hard work but good work. I think that all of you who have been a little closer and who have been following these events and have been able to assess that Slovenia will be able to face the challenges that await us, and among which one of the most important issues in the Western Balkans will be indisputably one of the most important ones that concerns issues in the Western Balkans, is said in our immediate neighbourhood. I think it will be important, from the wisdom that should prevail in solving these issues, whether we can count among those countries that are in this task, whether the real Presidency is successful or not. The other part of the Treaty of Lisbon, I think it is a success rate and, regardless of the need to conclude, by 1.1.2009, there are still many activities to be done. I personally assess that we will have easier work to do in this area. Indisputably, Slovenia will gain visibility during this period. It will consolidate its international reputation and international position. If you want the promotions we're going to get through this project, it's impossible to measure in money. It is about the state being strengthened as a modern, modern country facing the challenges of the future and being able to meet these challenges in a sovereign way. It's a promotion. It's not just a tourist thing. This is a promotion in political, economic and all other areas. What I think is very important for our faster and successful development in the future. For this reason, I understand that the opposition could not support the President of the Government when he tied the trustee to support the EU Presidency. I understand that. It is a matter of political issues and it is difficult to get out of your own shadow when deciding on such an important matter. Above all, it is very difficult to turn your head quickly in a few minutes and face what the question is. I don't understand. One other thing. I don't understand how it's possible that we haven't been or that you haven't been able to condemn our country's unfounded slanders abroad. For in these words, which have been confirmed as unrealistic, it has been said what will be the message to the European Union if it is chaired by a country in which human rights are systematically violated. This, I think, is not good and there is only one small mark on this path, which I think will be successful and I hope that we will all, together with the maturity that we have undoubtedly overcome, will help each and every one of us in their power to carry out this project successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr. Aurelio Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to have a hard time avoiding the controversy behind the predecessor. It is precisely for me to point out to the urgency that such debates, the mutual accusation, refer to the confidence of the President, who is to be linked to the Presidency of the European Union. There is no such institute. The trust is tied to the government as such. Reference to a famous press petition, to signatories, to alleged slander abroad, and so on. This kind of debate does not fall within the obligations that we will fulfil when we lead the European Union. I am not jealous of the President of the National Assembly and I do not envy the presidents of the working bodies who will be most exposed in this regard, in particular in the six - if I am not mistaken for sectoral meetings - where the main protagonists, where the professional services will make sure that the European Union will re-evaluate at that time our work on the topics that are common and which I certainly agree with Montenegro - leads to the future. But where our colleagues from other parliaments will not want to hear about our inner well-being, even the problems with our neighbours, and so on, what is often happening to us. When foreign delegations arrive, let us first take care of the general atmosphere and the narrative of our sovereign role as a factor of international policy. Then, of course, we are taken into account in the story of the problems with Croatia, with Austria. It's an ecological fishing zone, a border, an untrustworthy, untrustworthy neighborhood, etc. That's what I see. The ones you are in these delegations when we listen to our colleagues from other countries, and it's not the most pleasant to listen to. So I hope and thus we will create our little country as a great interlocutor so that this kind of debate will not be translated or translated into the content of our meetings. I, too, believe that we have a unique opportunity to create a fine reputation during this presidency. But not in such a way as to emphasize how good we all are and what we can do. But by proving how the European Union can lead a parliamentary debate. What we're about to do here is within our jurisdiction. Interference with the general, with common problems as major coordinators, mediators, advisers as well, contributed to the European Union taking a step forward in certain segments at this time. If we -- let me sum up again -- drop to this level, which is ours, normal, but nothing wrong, we're here for it, we're not going to do that. I believe, too, that our professional services, our working body presidents and all of us, who will participate in these working bodies and at this time also meet and develop a dialogue at personal level with our interlocutors and interlocutors, will succeed. But we are careful because we will not only be in our Parliament, we will be in the general European Parliament, and our conduct will also be appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Just Bevk. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In the first half of next year, we will be chairing the Council of the European Union. This will certainly be one of the most important achievements of the Republic of Slovenia in the last decade. This year, exactly ten years have passed since the signing of the agreement of seven parliamentary parties on cooperation in the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Slovenia. This gave a green light for Slovenia's involvement in European integration. That is when we adopted the strategy for the economic development of Slovenia and the state development programme as operational documents for the activities of the Government and the National Assembly in the accession process. The legislative programme that we had to adopt in the National Assembly until 1 May 2004, when we became full members of the European Union, was extremely extensive. The harmonisation of our legislation with the European one essential feature is certainly within the mandate from 2000 to 2004. From January 2001 to July 2004, the National Assembly adopted 190 EU laws and 5 so-called EU acts. The next such project, initiated by the previous government and, of course, by other institutions, in the first place by Banka Slovenije, is the takeover of the euro and entry into the euro area as of 1 January 2007. It was also a project that didn't come up overnight. It was a long-term process that started before Slovenia entered the ERM exchange rate mechanism on 2 June 2004, which also applied to the so-called Euro pick-up waiting room. The Republic of Slovenia has also received recognition from the competent institutions of the European Union for the successful completion of the project for the introduction of the euro. First of all, the European Central Bank. At the end of this week, we will enter the Schengen area solemnly, where there will be no more internal borders with the members of the European Union. Slovenia has started to partially implement the Schengen acquis by entering the European Union on 1 May 2004, namely in the area of visa policy and the prevention of illegal immigration. However, the first preparations for entry into the Schengen area date back to 1999. On 1 May 2004, 1 January 2007 and 22 December 2007, it is now being joined on 1 January 2008. The day on which the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union begins. Slovenia will thus preside over the Council of the European Union as the first of the Member States to join the European Union on 1 May 2004. So we will be at the forefront of an integration that brings together more than 500 million people. The presidency won't be cheap. Some 62 million euros will be required. The presidency deals with about 1300 people in the state administration. Of these, 150 at the Permanent Representation in Brussels. Slovenia will certainly carry out its Presidency without any particular problems after technical notice. At least I hope so. However, I also hope that we will be able to commend ourselves on some substantive issue that we will be able to resolve or at least give the right initiative for a solution. There is no doubt that we can develop initiatives to resolve conflicts in the Balkans and contribute to resolving the issues related to the further enlargement of the European Union in this area and also to the future status of Kosovo. Your Honor! Despite the fact that the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, had already cancelled the opposition's participation in the Presidency of the European Union in advance when he said on 19 November that the Agreement on the Cooperation of Political Parties during the Presidency of Slovenia was only a dead letter to the European Union and that the Government and the government coalition in this project remained more or less alone, we will do our utmost to ensure that the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union succeeds. Support and assistance to Slovenia in the Presidency of the European Union was also expressed by the Socialists' Group in the European Parliament, which was on an official visit to our country in early December. So, I wish that our Presidency of the European Union or the Council of the European Union would be successful in the next six months, and so would be correctly recorded in our history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. All present! There are more of them behind me than there are before me. Anyway, since I'm going to say a few words, I'm going to speak mostly to empty chairs. Maybe we're being followed by the public. I am also convinced that the Presidency is and will be a challenge and an opportunity and will contribute to the reputation and visibility of Slovenia. That's why I'm really asking the National Assembly, and I'm asking the government, too. [[We used to have a government representative here, and now he's gone.]] : Why were these sessions closed to the public, given that a colleague told me that the events organised by the National Assembly would be poorly covered in the media? I don't think there's any reason these meetings are closed to the public. Also because it is essentially an informal meeting of the committees of the European Parliament and of the European Union. So much possible for an introduction on my part. Otherwise, I will be more specific on the subject to be addressed by the Committee on Agriculture or by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food when it chairs the Committees on Agriculture of the National Parliaments and the European Parliament. This will happen on 2 and 3 June. Our theme is: How do we ensure food security or food security and sustainable development as a challenge to agriculture? There has been a lot of talk recently about climate change, about energy, and not enough about food security. How can we provide food for today's 6.6 billion people around the world? In a few decades, it is expected that there will be about 9 billion more of us. How can we ensure, however, that we have limited production areas, that agricultural areas or agricultural areas are reduced, that they are limited, that restrictions on hectare yields are also applied to certain agricultural products for other purposes? I was raised in that conservative spirit when we had respect for bread, for food, and I think I am today. Today, however, it is normal for people to have grain, wheat, corn in the ovens to keep themselves warm. And these are supposed to be new bioenergy sources. In fact, it is this food that is lacking in the world and that it is limited. Agriculture is also limited by climate change. It won't be a problem that only penguins don't have room or living space. We won't have people either. There will be more, and the food will be limited. So, how do you grow that there will be enough food, how do climate change affect food production? We know that agriculture is one of the sectors most hit by climate change. They used to say, "The tower's not good if you're carrying it through the plantations," you're already doing yourself harm. When the first storm goes, the grip, almost usually there is no damage elsewhere, and agriculture can feel it quickly. At the same time, it is known that all these natural resources are limited. Let it be water, I've already told the earth. And how can we cultivate that this will be used in a cost-effective manner and that we will not pollute the environment at the same time and that we will be able to leave the earth healthy for the craftsmen? At the same time, agriculture is also subject to market law. So Slovenia will chair next year. I hope that it will take advantage of this opportunity and that, even when the common review of the common agricultural policy will also express its views, it will guide this agricultural policy, not only will it chair that countries such as Slovenia will find their place in the European space. That is to say, not only will quantity be important, but in particular quality and diversity. And here I see Slovenia. Finally, let me say that our committee has proposed to the Government, in particular the representatives of the Ministry, which should also appeal to the Government, to the National Assembly, that during the Presidency, as well as to the practice of exclusively pouring Slovenian wine at various events. Slovenian drinks as well as to find agricultural products of their place among protocol gifts. I have nothing against crystal, against various unique products, but also, say, nocturnal honey, clay products, virgin olive oil, pumpkin oil or something like that can be found among protocol gifts. They are practical and could also do much for Slovenian farms, for the promotion of Slovenian rural and Slovenian agriculture. I hope that our committee will do much in this direction, too, and that it will successfully carry out the task entrusted to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Now it's a really interesting dilemma. After these discussions, which have now followed, we will talk about intercultural dialogue. How, if we don't even listen to ourselves. Of course, we don't listen because we don't want to hear what anyone is saying. For when I spoke on my own, I was crystal clear: the themes that are in the building are those that we will present outside, at a meeting to be organised with the commissions that cover the area of culture in all the parliaments of the Member States of the European Union. These are topics among which Slovenia can also exercise its interests, particularly in the language field. The Slovenian language is of course a value that needs special protection and whose dimensions we are aware of only now in the processes of globalisation. Then it's about the other targets listed in the material. For example, the issue of strengthening awareness of what it means to be a member of the European Union, what good practice of the State of Slovenia in the field of minorities means and what intercultural dialogue with the Western Balkans means, which is in our interest because in some ways intercultural dialogue in this interstate perspective can also be defined as something that builds and prevents those short-term measures that are more secure. And in fact, the only one in the long run can ensure the coexistence of the nations and nations of the whole world. And, of course, it must also be added to respect for different groups, different religions. All of these are subjects that we can talk about outside. And the other is the themes that I said it would be good to win them on the inside, to win them on our own, as I stressed. And it's crucial that everyone does it honestly. I am sorry that it is not even heard what anyone says that convinces me that we are far away from it. We are unfortunately very, very far away from starting intercultural dialogue on our own. In fact, when it comes to relations between us, it is only by listening, if the space for our dialogue is open, that we can speak frankly about issues that touch on the post-war period. Not because of our half-lived history, as someone might have done wrong and rushed off. But because those who were then murdered were also people. They were people. These were people who were naked, wire-bound, murdered, whole families thrown into some pit. And they still haven't had a cultural funeral. They have not even experienced the power and public apology of this National Assembly and the previous regime publicly defined by some act as undemocratic, and the number of people killed on Slovenian soil after World War II is the largest in any European country. Are we aware of that?Oh, my God! And in the light of a figure that exceeds 100,000, it may reach as many as 300,000, according to some estimates, after the war of the beasts killed on Slovenian soil, is what happened in Srebrenica, which is now described by us as the worst war crime since World War II on European soil, is in fact only a pale reflection of the event that was committed here and which was not committed by someone who would come out of space. There are people who have spoken, as witnesses say, Slovenian. That is why this is something where it is appropriate to define and to focus on this, but I also stress intercultural dialogue. For so far, this monologue has unfortunately been rather uncultured on the other hand. I must also say that ignoring the celebration dedicated to the victims of the totalitarian regime is an act of total non-culture if you want and is fundamentally drastic, clearly contrary to what intercultural dialogue in its essence is. Second, this attitude toward believers, to a religion that has been defined for decades as an internal enemy as opium for the people. And today, in fact, the same things only move forward with other words. Therefore, I say that the space for intercultural dialogue here within the borders of Slovenia is more than enough. But the first condition is that we listen to each other at all, that then no one tells us that we want to represent something abroad, when we are repeatedly publicly, not only have we said that we do not approve of it, but we are most keenly opposed to things that they have actually done themselves abroad. Colleagues in transition, who explained to the outsider that we had taken from us 1,800 people's citizenship, about the so-called deleted?Oh, my God! We offered it to everyone! Don't tell me that's not true. Because on POP TV, one of the activists who "stretched" or protested in Gorica was asked why he protested there for being erased. He said because my friends in Slovenia told me that you took away 1,800 people's citizenship and erased them. For this concept in English means something else entirely, that man has no opportunity to obtain documents, that he does not exist, that he does not have some rights, that he cannot arrange anything in a country. In fact, this term "rased" means in English if we translate it directly and it is extremely misleading for the Slovenian situation. And since this is true - but you know why, if not already by the current opposition, the politically sponsored action, when the buses were so-called deleted in Brussels, ended up so infamous? Because when they got there, they found that virtually all Slovenian "passors" had them, and then no one took them very seriously anymore. Then there is the question: Who gave up the opposition's participation? This has now been presented repeatedly as purely unjust. I would like to point out that, when it came to the question of the confidential person, one part of the opposition spoke out loud that it would be best to just leave the European Union's leadership to the next country, which is in turn for Slovenia, so that Slovenia would just give up leading the European Union, this extraordinary honour and this extraordinary opportunity, as well as the great responsibility that follows. And to that end, with the words of the Prime Minister, everyone in the opposition was explicitly invited. That's what she was bound to do, and they accepted her? No, no, no, no. At that time, they fled by smoking after them across half of Slovenia. That is the question of the difference between words and actions. Facts that mean responsibility. But society is free when everyone in it takes responsibility. That's the key. Unfortunately, too often there is no such responsibility in Slovenia. This is followed by another lesson. In fact, when we open up a place to talk, it is essential - I said this quite at the beginning of the introduction earlier - that the media are free and responsible. But this freedom means freedom in the absolute sense of the word. And then this responsibility is absolute. And it cannot and should not happen what is already happening in this House at least twice. Once when it came to the issue of amending the RTV Slovenia Act, the second time recently when the so-called press petition was considered, when one part of the opposition pointed out that Radio Fireplace was heard across almost the whole of Slovenia as one disturbing element that bothered them terribly to hear it. I ask you kindly and we are talking about intercultural dialogue. The first and fundamental condition is that the media space is open, that it is free, that dialogue is even possible. And such statements, which, by the way, reflect some very severe intolerance and also include a broader concept of hate speech. Such statements are certainly not an honour for this House. But they testify to a state of spirit that can only be passed through for a while. And that is what I meant when I said it would be good for us to take this opportunity, when we speak out about the topics that I have listed and are intended for this meeting, to adopt this intercultural dialogue and to continue it with us later. Except, of course, if anyone in Slovenia is afraid of honest and free public words, then let him say it without deception.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well, much has been said and little substantively said about what is actually to be done in the context of intercultural dialogue at the meeting of the cultural committees of the national parliaments of the Member States of the European Union. I was fortunate enough to be President of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities at a meeting of such committees in Berlin, where I found out what it actually means to organise such a debate at European Union level. This means opening up important issues that national parliaments should discuss with a common view on which topics are relevant in the European area. And this is where my problem begins. In view of the fact that I have listened to the debate or to the presentation of the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and now the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, I must say that it is both in great conflict with what is written in this document, which we have received as the basis for the debate. In fact, if we look at what is written about the substantive points of reference for the debate, none of this is what the man before me was talking about. This is because such a debate is not about disclosing and clearing up the national traumas that have been discussed here, because we can do this on our own. But it looks like some people will never make it. Because they cannot have dialogue because they cannot hear, listen, and understand others, that is the problem. If we have taken up this topic of intercultural dialogue in order to commend ourselves before Europe for the adoption of the Law on Romani Community and the Law on Religious Freedom, then we have dealt with matters from the wrong source already because we are afraid to discuss Roma issues. After the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport held a debate on the starting points, of course not on the President's particular desire and timeliness, but it was necessary to do so later - so much in terms of commitment to discuss the subject - after we did so subsequently, it was on the Committee that we were unable to discuss the views of those objectives that were written here. Promote intercultural dialogue as a process in which all citizens of Europe can contribute to a more open and more complex common space. A common European space, not a clean-up of traumas, as we say. Because I think we did the right thing, the right excuses and all that in this country at the symbolic level. But if some can't accept it and they can't see it, then that's their problem. Nothing's gonna help us see that. And look, this is an opportunity to gain within a diverse and dynamic community in Europe as well as around the world, but this intercultural dialogue as a value, to raise the awareness of the people of the European Union, to contribute. To highlight the contribution of different cultures and to encourage as active as possible the role of parliaments in intercultural dialogue. That's what you wrote in your goals. None of the things you said earlier, Mr Grimes, are here in the debate and you have written in the adopted document. And now to what was spoken of as a great value to the tongue. Look! What we have here, about language, about language as a value, is essentially written very biasedly and essentially about language as a problem that costs, not about language as a value. It's not. When you talk about language issues, there is nothing written about the fact that there is actually a need to distinguish between minority and regional languages, on the one hand, and between languages that are the official languages of the Member States of the European Union, the number of speakers is small. The solutions you have in here are such that they do not withstand criticism. When experts came to Slovenia and dealt with some of the issues in the field of education, they spoke Slovenian as a regional language. And what will we do to make those who come to us realize that Slovenian is the official language of this country, which assures me that I can address all European institutions in Slovenian? Now I've got a document in my hands that tells me what the messages we're turning around to be, how they should be designed. Article 11 of these guidelines states in the second paragraph that only reports of a high protocol nature written by the President of the National Assembly shall be written in Slovenian and added in foreign language. Everyone else, for example, if I am communicating as president of a working body with any institution in the European Union, I should only communicate with it in a foreign language. That's how much he cares about his tongue. I am very interested in how the rules on the use of language during the Presidency will be followed. Just let someone think about what we're doing with this famous slogan "I feel Slovenia" that was supposed to be made to acquire and advertise abroad. We read it at every step without Slovenian translation here in Slovenia and do not comply with the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian. Some may laugh because it was, not mindful, the purpose of this significantly different nature, but here you want to present it for the hair drawn only as a masquerade and only as the first thing. But in fact, you're concealing the true purposes that you want to achieve here. There is no underlying language problem in this document. There are different writings besides languages that limit us in the European Union so much that we lose the image of our surnames and names. These are real problems. What will Slovenia offer in this regard? The fact that the largest parliamentary group gave a letter for consideration on the working body, which was not recorded in the Slovenian spelling. And when I warned you about that, they didn't take care of the proper prescription. These are real problems. If we want to treat them as coexistence between different languages and different cultures in a cultured, respectful and dignified manner. But it's not like we're gonna get a place to solve all sorts of traumas. By the way, on Human Rights Day, I spoke to those in the country who think and think that their rights are being denied in this country. Some were in Cankar’s home, and some were in front of him and discussed it with the deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Yes, please, mag. Grimes. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u30	Just for a little while. This is the third time I've done it. Mrs Potrat, if you would really listen to my words, you would already be aware of this. I was talking about two things. One is what is meant for our meeting and is covered in this document. You voted for this document, too, and you had every opportunity to amend it if you thought there was something flawed. With regard to Slovenian and the use of languages, of course, there is a particular problem. How we will present this and how we will know how to defend it from the outside is up to us. Personally, I am firmly in the position that Slovenian must be an equal language to all foreigners in the European Union and that it must be guaranteed to them, i.e. to all languages, a completely equal approach and equal opportunities. This is also one of our vital interests and we are committed to it, and I am sure of that, everyone. Secondly, I did not want a unique event to arise from intercultural dialogue. But I said it would be good for everyone to adopt and continue this process, within Slovenia. Inside our borders. It is through dialogue between individuals and between groups, because I have very precisely defined. And if you just don't want to understand this, then in some way you just fixed that fundamental debate that intercultural dialogue within Slovenia is still needed. The first condition is that we listen carefully to each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u31	Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. Please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u32	The list is different. That's why I would be angry if we didn't miss Mr. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u33	I've been trying to please you and give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u34	Okay. When we talk about this point of the agenda, however, a strange taste is present. We have the title of this item "Information on the activities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia during the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union". I do not understand, although I have repeatedly pointed out why the National Assembly does not have a programme of activities during the presidency of the Republic of Slovenia. The government has it, and we're gonna deal with it this week. And we have some information. We ourselves have cut off an active role in this process. The Presidency is undoubtedly an opportunity for different policies to be formulated with the help of that country that holds the presidency at different levels. The government has its weight, its obligations, its programme, other institutions as well. I don't understand how the National Assembly doesn't have it. I believe that the programme of meetings that will be organised by certain committees in the National Assembly will be a rich, substantive variety. But to give some impression that the National Assembly is only a government pendant. When I talk about an area that, believe me, I know very well about European security and defence policy, I fear that in the future it will be just as it is now that, through the Government and the leadership of the National Assembly, Members will not be able to obtain material at all where there is a starting point for positions in the field of rapid response forces or, if you want to, in the field of the European Defence Policy Programme. We read in the paper how "good" if, during the Presidency of the European Union, they were not present with 15 soldiers in Chad, without having any basis for this on the Committee on European Affairs, on the Committee on Foreign Policy or on God, so as not to let the Committee on Defence and other Members become aware of this. How, then, will we form this European defence and security policy next year? This National Assembly, Members of Parliament, those who are in the chain, at least under the Law on Cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly, have been informed of things when the activity is different. But today gentlemen were talking about figs in their pockets and so on. But when I received an invitation, the role of national parliaments in decision-making processes in the European Union, and I went to look at this information about activities, I was appalled. And this is not a fig in a pocket, it is a slip, but a conscious disregard for Parliament, in which we should talk about the role of national parliaments in decision-making processes in the European Union. Let us leave the Government in its position before the European Treaty was verified or signed that the Government had in its position to push Parliament aside and that it should not play this more active role in the decision-making processes in the European Union, that was the position of the Government. Thank God the Dutch and other representatives have been very loud and have written in this Treaty that there is still a need for national parliaments to gain greater weight. And I expected that, in this context, we would also speak during our Presidency, during a period when we will also eventually chair and ratify this Treaty in the National Assembly. But what happened? A private institute in Ljubljana organises on 11 January under the auspices of the President of the National Assembly and I ask him how it is possible that the National Assembly is not involved in this, and the private institute organises a conference under the auspices of the President of the National Assembly, "National Parliaments - Equal Partners in European Union decision-making processes". Participating: President of the Bundestag, the first in the Presidency of the Troika, President of the Assembly of the Republic of Portugal - the second in the troika and the fourth, Vice-President of the French National Assembly, who will chair the next, but we as Members can only go as if we were allowed to attend this conference at Hotel Lev. Instead of talking to the Members of Parliament, I would be talking to each other and Mr President of Parliament would be an honorable, not an honourable President, he could be the active president of this Gremium, who would meet here. So, in case you happen to have time, and if you are allowed to go to the round table of the private institute chaired by the President of the Council or the Vice-President of the SDS, whose member is the Minister of SDS, whose member is the Secretary of State of the SDS in charge of the celebrations, we are talking here about a dialogue in which the next Minister of Giga Turk, etc. And you will see that this, in fact, I will not say to the government, but the party institute that usurped literally usurped the presidents of parliaments who were supposed to be in the Presidency of the National Assembly and to talk to us and discuss the role of national parliaments, but you do not find this in the information. That is why, Mr President of the Committee on European Affairs, I have already discussed there at that joint meeting that this should not be information, but a programme of activities. So, if that's the case, then it's best, Mrs. Uhanova, that you organize this conference at the Maribor Agricultural Institute, and make a private institute, invite all those who are interested. I am joking, of course, but as a Parliamentary, as I advocate that national parliaments, which in some way form those specific policies that should be advocated in the European Parliament, should eventually reflect these positions in the positions of the government represented by the Council of Ministers or in the world of the European Union at the summit in order to reflect this through these positions. [[...]] But as soon as we agree that we are the government's pendant, to even ourselves, with countless warnings, that we should make a program of more activities and actively cooperate on this in order to satisfy ourselves with information. It's not right. But we're considering the government programme in three days, if I saw it correctly, the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly would be on Thursday and Friday, if I'm not mistaken. So, I believe that the Presidency will be successful, that there will also be substantively rich meetings in the National Assembly. That we will probably have to, and this has nothing to do with whether I support this government in their activities, in order to do as successfully as possible what needs to be done during the presidency. I support it, in that sense, to do it qualitatively and so on. I am sorry, however, that we are missing some opportunities as a parliament. In order to establish policies to be reflected in positions to be debated with the government when it comes to a certain position at the meeting, or individual ministers, or when it comes to a meeting at a summit, when the Presidents of governments meet and take final positions and actions that affect all citizens and citizens of each European Union country.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u35	Please. Sir yes, replica? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u36	Yeah, he mentioned me as chairman of the committee. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u37	Yeah, that's right. Nothing very positive. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u38	It will not be no, no, no, of course I just want to say that, with regard to the process of how the matter is going on, I have never been consulted by myself as chairman of the committee, nor our committee, nor have I been invited to any kind of consultation, that was the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly or I do not know who the leadership of the National Assembly is going to be. [[...]] And we just couldn't influence it. That's it. We don't really know anything about what's going on here. I hear the President of the European Parliament is coming this week. Our committee has not been informed of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Mitja Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. I cannot help but say that I do not continue in this spirit, in the spirit of my predecessor, in the spirit of the President of the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union, and I will also find again that the government really acts as a skyscraper to the National Assembly and to the Committees in the National Assembly, as if the National Assembly were some kind of pendant. Last but not least, we can see this in other areas, because when the proposed legislation comes to the National Assembly, then the voting machine has to get it through. Sometimes, on the basis of the veto of the State Council, it does not succeed, but unfortunately these cases are too rare. Why do I get that feeling myself? The government has hired an army of people to prepare for the presidency, which will also ensure that this Presidency will be successful on the one hand, and I hope that on the other hand Slovenia will also benefit from it. In the National Assembly, not only can we feel an inappropriate attitude on the part of the Government, but also a stepmotherly relationship on the part of the leadership of the National Assembly. The Committee on European Union Affairs is preparing a far-reaching parliamentary event in Slovenia so far, a meeting of all national, delegations of national parliaments of COSAC with the same or even weakened team as ever. No additional power has been approved. This is just one example where it also shows that within the House, within the National Assembly, those responsible do not have either a hearing or perhaps a review or they do not understand that everything is not going to happen at the level of the Presidents of the National Assembly, but there are also committees here, there are also those bodies that will prepare with their professional services substantively and also organizational events to be attended by parliamentarians during the Presidency. For this reason, I would like to conclude with an assessment that Slovenia will receive as much from this Presidency as possible, that we will not be more papal than the pope in leading the Presidency and that the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union and Parliament, as a whole, will be able to implement the programme successfully. I am aware, however, of the fact that the human resources deficit will also require a huge amount of energy and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u41	Thank you very much. And Mr. Mag. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President or President, although I would like to be President, because then I believe that today, under a point called information on the activities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we would really act as stated in the title of the Slovenian Presidency programme as a synergy in Slovenia for Europe. But the presence of Members in this Chamber and the debates we have, especially the fact that we are considering today, on Tuesday, information on the activities of the National Assembly, but have failed or the leadership of the National Assembly has failed to comply with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order to provide us with information for today's meeting, not for Friday's extraordinary session, the Slovenian Presidency programme and yesterday's material and this Slovenian Presidency programme has a date of 28 November 2007. On 28 November 2007, the government adopted an obvious programme of Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the EU, which is called SI, as Slovenian, Slovenian-nergy for Europe, I hope that this is not Slovenian negation for Europe, but is indeed Slovenian energy for Europe, but gentlemen, if we as Slovenia want to preside well together, then be all inclusive. This means that today's session should discuss together what the Government considers to be its programme and how the National Assembly will be involved in this programme. In the National Assembly, because of the great efforts made by the President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, as well as in part by the Committee on Foreign Policy and some members, we have been engaged in what activities we will prepare over the past few months. But if we look at this programme now and the programme of the Slovenian Presidency, I don't know if there is enough internal synergy here. And let me comment on this with a text that, on 3 December, at a so-called traditional conference already held before each presidency, the Faculty of Social Sciences International Activity Centre, which is not called a private institution, has carried out. I estimate that I am not entirely sure whether we are in favour of the Slovenian Presidency programme with our activities. The President of the Government is supposed to say on Friday that the main themes are celebration and agreement on a new treaty, which concluded in 2007, that the year 2008 will be the year where we are supposed to form a new foundation with new challenges and then we will go to some priorities, the ratification process of the Lisbon Treaty is a priority of the Presidency, the energy package is a priority, especially because I assume that now, after relative success in Bali, this is even possible, the Lisbon Strategy in terms of some timely adoption of integrated guidelines, enlargement and European neighbourhood policy, mainly related to problems or efforts to strengthen the European perspective of the Western Balkan countries, the intercultural dialogue, then ends or discusses details. I do not know if I compare this with what the other countries tell us, they say, yes, Europe should continue with, I call it, deepening internal relations and deepening relations include the role of national parliaments in the decision-making process of the European Union, but we will not, as my colleague Anderlič said, discuss this in the National Assembly, the debate will be organised by a private institution, I suppose it will also be financed by Dr Jožet Pučnik for the development of democratic thoughts, where I see mainly in the world of the institution the one who will also be the main host at this conference, and this is one of the European Members. Is this really just a synergy within the Slovenian Democratic Party to use the Presidency of the Council of the European Union as a way of internal conflict, one says, on the right? I am afraid that not all of us in Slovenia are making full use of the Presidency of the European Union in order to show that, as Slovenia, we are able to manage this well-coordinatedly, but that this has become almost a party-friendly issue. Not to say that this has become a question where the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is competing with a private institution. And the fact that we are discussing the same matter at two different meetings this week, at two different points, is proof of that. Therefore, I regret that the leadership of the National Assembly has not made an effort to bring this into line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u43	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Check-in is on. Each debater has 5 minutes. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u44	Thank you. It's been a lot said today, but this is the end of the line, if it's an adoption, but it's really interesting. In particular, in the light of the debate of one of his fellow Members, who spoke very highly of the University of the Mediterranean, where, in fact, he attributed almost all the credit for these things to himself. Now, to answer everyone at the same time, just let me read the text, and I have one more thing to explain. He said when he spoke about the University of the Mediterranean that this process began in September 2006. This text, which I will read, is from the end of February 2006 and is intended for Dimitri Rupl, and let me read it: "I am at the top of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Brussels. The head of the German delegation, otherwise a member of the CDU, spoke to me personally with the chancellor, providing full support to Germany for the seat of the University of the Mediterranean in Slovenia. Good-bye, Branko Grimes." In fact, the fruit of any successful action is, of course, the result of lobbying different groups, different individuals and, therefore, whenever someone tries to attribute something to himself, it is usually a problem. What I've said is that I've only said to make it clear that for some purposes we're all working for, maybe we're even making a mistake because we don't always hang ourselves on the big bell. But only if we all pull in the same direction, then some success will be certain. However, this support of Germany was, in order to make this project a reality, of great importance. And it's just the fruit of the deal, because some of the things we've made possible for them, we haven't even had a special other interest there. It was a situation in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, but I specifically proposed support for the establishment of the Mediterranean University. And that's what they assured us, once again, directly after talking to the government's leadership. And that's the word the Germans kept. So if this project is to be implemented, please note that many people have been working for it at different levels. If all things were to be carried out in this way, but unfortunately today's debate, and especially what was said when the trust was placed on the President of the Government and tied to the leadership of the European Union, that was not the case. At that time, once again, some very clear and very unequivocally suggested that Slovenia give up on leaving it to the next country, even if we are not mature. I have also seen something like this today in one of the two debates. Personally, I think this is a very wrong thought. It's about our shared responsibility to history, it's about knowing things from the outside that we drive together. The Croats are already our neighbors as a great example. That's what you should say. Secondly, what I have said before is that it would be good that these things not only remain as a one-time event, alone for all time, but to say that once we are done with these key topics and when we meet on intercultural dialogue, with this process, because intercultural dialogue is a process, we continue on our own. Let me finish where I started. It would be good, for starters, to listen carefully to each other and to talk openly and to respect each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I cannot answer in this place as a member of this delegation, but I would tell you some very interesting things, including those you have been talking about and how many people have been talking to. All I can tell you is that, in May, I personally thanked President Pöttering, now Pöttering, for this activity for the University of the Mediterranean in Slovenia, in Rome, on behalf of the delegation from Slovenia. At the same time, I would not like to stress once again what Mr Pavliha has just said that the President of the Government has listened to this first initiative - the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So it'll be clear. We're moving on. Mr. Anton Anderlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u46	In fact, I do not know who I would address this issue to, given that Mr Kokalj, President of the Committee on European Affairs has unquestionably made it clear that there is one serious coordination or one serious common agreement on what this National Assembly will do for six months. I believe and have every honour to all those who are preparing these things in many areas. However, I would like to clarify how this meeting on the role of national parliaments in decision-making processes in the European Union is now taking place. Whether the National Assembly will be involved in these matters in any way, or whether we will discuss this with our fellow Presidents of Parliaments, both Portugal and others I have mentioned earlier, I have heard that even the President of the European Parliament comes here, whether this is something that I say I support all the institutions of private, public and those involved in any activity contributing to the expansion of the democratic culture of intercultural dialogue or whatever else I would say. But believe me, it is very difficult for me to explain to myself that on 11 January in Slovenia, the President of the Bundestag, the President of the Assembly of the Republic of Portugal, the Vice-President of the French National Assembly, the Vice-President of the European Parliament, will have no opportunity to speak to them about such an important topic as the agenda, but this meeting is sponsored by the President of the National Assembly, and the Honorary Patron of the Conference is the President of the National Assembly. And once again, I have repeatedly asked the question whether we are preparing a programme and whether that will be the whole programme, at least as I have understood it, as other countries, other parliaments have, I have certainly come to know in at least five, six cases so far, that the activities carried out in the national Parliament have activities carried out by working bodies in the national Parliament, are activities carried out by the Presidents of the national parliaments together with their colleagues, are activities carried out together with the European Parliament and yet we do not have this programme. So, I'm asking the President of the National Assembly, do we have to go to a party meeting of the private institute so that we can play the role of national parliaments with our colleagues, because it's finally a threesome plus France, which will be next in line? I'm sorry I have to keep saying these things, but I don't get any answers. I said before, I'm sorry that the government has a program, we're dealing with it, and we're a gateway with activity information, which is not the right balance for me. And I'm asking, in the future, will it be possible to get it from the government of the matter, you all know what I'm talking about? I am talking about European matters that are connected to a particular area without anyone preventing it. I have looked at the law, the rules of procedure, the instructions adopted by the College or the Secretary-General, but this is not the case. I illustrated earlier with a case from a month ago, and the starting point for the Brussels meeting at the summit of foreign ministers and defence ministers, where Chad was discussed, and some other things, we did not get this information. In order to be more absurd, however, we have received this with the matter as a report and get to know the report. But as it says on our portal, we should be familiar with all matters and also reports. That's not what it's been. And I really politely ask, over the next six months, will this be any different?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u47	Thank you. When I replaced Mr. Klavor, I heard quite a few observations about the poor flow of information. I must say, Mr Anderlič, that if you were more involved in meetings with the presidents or with the heads of the working bodies that we had in the current year since spring and otherwise have been more involved with, we would be kept informed. All meters of material have also gone to all parliamentary groups and you are informed exactly about the meetings in Brussels where we possess information. The meeting in Brussels, together with our committees with European committees, we do not yet have certain content and we cannot inform you about them, because neither do any of us yet know them because they are still coordinating. On other things, I think that the information was good, but for further information, of course today's debate with all the material that has been transmitted to you on the basis of those proposals that the working bodies have prepared themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u48	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u49	Procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u50	I suggested earlier that you explain how I should understand this information from 17.12. Should I understand it as a member of the National Assembly within the framework of the activities carried out by the National Assembly, or will I also meet with the presidents I had previously read under your honorable auspices of this conference, or will there be a meeting in the National Assembly, or will we all have to go to the Hotel Lev for a conference organized by the private institute? I asked that question and that is what my procedural proposal is to explain how the National Assembly will be involved in this event.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u51	The event of January is organised by a private institute, where I also participate as France Tsukati and not as the National Assembly. At the same time, we will also take advantage of a bilateral meeting with the presidents of some parliaments. Anything else? Thursday - perhaps even if the new question arises how Thursday - will be here, in this space, a meeting with youth and the public, where the presidents of all the parliamentary groups or leaders of the European Parliament's parliamentary groups, including Poettering, will be. This is an organisation of the European Parliament, and at the same time we will have a meeting with a college or two colleges, the Colleges of the European Parliament and the Colleges of the National Assembly will have their first meeting in the morning, and then there will be a public debate where students will sit. I think some of these things are also passing through our program, the National Assembly. There are many meetings in Slovenia, some of which do not directly concern the National Assembly as institutions of Members. On Thursday we will only allocate or allow this meeting with the Slovenian public, with Slovenian youth, with students; it will also be a transfer, as I have heard. That's it. I'm sorry I took your time, or that's enough. Mr. President, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleague and colleague! For the last time, on the Committee on European Affairs, I had a little critical debate on some of the lost, missing, sorry, opportunities. And after all this, after today's debate and after what you have just said, Mr President, I repeat once again that it is a missed opportunity for the President of the European Parliament, for example, to address the Members and Members of the National Assembly. If there is a meeting, which is positive, of course, with representatives of young people and some representatives of civil society, I think it would be good if we met together in this Chamber at a plenary session. Perhaps there has ever been a speech about this in college, and I may have missed a college meeting at some point, so I don't remember this agreement or this explanation. By repeating once again that this is one of the missed opportunities and also the Committee on European Union Affairs is the last time, I think that, as a conclusion, it is not, as far as I know, that the activities of the President of the National Assembly with the entire programme are concerned, I think that this would be true and I will give it to colleagues who are discussing in this direction. This is also the way I have debated the last time on the European Affairs Committee. The government programme is clear, with dates, with which I do not know what kind of data all, is a whole lot of material, while this part of us is a little limited, and I repeat that it is a late opportunity for us to host the President of the European Parliament and also the leaders, the heads of individual political groups, to speak or to speak to the members of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u54	I would like to explain only my previous comment on this material, which is being discussed today, about the work of the National Assembly, I said that, as Chairman of the Committee on Progress, I have not been consulted, well, not to say that it should be, but I believe that it would be better for the start of the Presidency, if it were also from the government, as I have told the Government several times, but my position was not relevant that the Government would still have come before the end of this year with the updated declaration for the following year, in particular with the emphasis on the six-year presidency, which is also the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in 154.f of the article, where it says that the basis for such a declaration is the European Commission's programme, which, when we adopted this year's declaration, has not been adopted at all. Thus, I think today's debate in this regard could be more substantive in that we would know more precisely than I mentioned before in the position of the Group of Members, that we would also know in Parliament which content, according to the dossiers, according to the legislative level, the Government wishes to highlight during its presidency, which I would like to bring as far as possible in the process and could also be better prepared to chair both the competent committees and the Parliament. That's one thing. On the other hand, I think it would also be appropriate for Parliament to adopt a work programme, which I fully agree with, rather than talking to ourselves about information. I have certainly attended the meetings organised by the President of the National Assembly, and I have always said that it bothers me that the European Union Affairs Committee is an equal committee for all others. However, when it comes to the consideration of a legislative act, in the end this committee must always finally adopt a position on behalf of the entire National Assembly. Here I think that this situation needs to be clarified further. I wouldn't argue about this point anymore. And even today, I have mentioned again, despite the fact that, say, competent committees cannot interfere with the work of the President of the National Assembly. I agree. The President of the National Assembly is an institution. However, it would be good for the National Assembly to have information on the activities of the President of the National Assembly during the Presidency, if any. But if they don't, then they say they won't. But if they are, I don't think it's best that we're not familiar with it, but of course we can't influence it. As I said before, I think we could connect with the Government here in this last act, adopt a supplementary declaration, which would also be part of the National Assembly programme during the presidency, but well, now the situation is the same as it is. I think, however, that the substantive meetings of the committee presidents are well prepared to be aligned with the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency and also in line with the current agenda that appears at the level of the European Union. And I think she'll be well-delivered. The only thing that could still be desired is to try to concentrate the points within Parliament. Perhaps at least in this Cosac meeting, which is the only formal one that can also formally adopt some conclusions and also propose them to the European institutions. Given that the content of the Cosac meeting depends not only on us, but also on the Presidential Troika, it can still happen. By proposing that, despite the information we propose at the meeting of the European Affairs Committees, it is still possible to propose some, I don't know, suggestions to help Slovenia chair even more convincingly. And, on behalf of Parliament, to express formally, perhaps certain points that we would consider to be useful by May, or good to know about the substantive changes by February, but by May, it is time to put certain substantive emphasis into the conclusions as well. This would, on my part, also be as the chairman of the Committee and as New Slovenia's Member, perhaps an additional, one constructive comment on this situation that we are in.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u56	I'll continue where my friend Kokalj ended up. I believe the meetings of our committees are well prepared. But I'm afraid it's not the right thing to do. For we have heard some debates that indicate the possibility, the danger of going into completely different waters, for we are carried along by feelings and passions. So it can happen to us that it's going to break some of us. That's why I started automatically discussing it, and I also called for us to leave our home in good health, not to take them to this meeting. So I have entered this point today, confident that there will be no major controversy that we will unanimously attach this information or to our program. But I'm leaving this point much more concerned. If we add to this an attempt to privatise these stories with a conference in the hands of the private office, a missed opportunity, as my colleague Presečnik said, when Poettering arrived. Finally, to provide the correct information on the Euro-Mediterranean University, where there is also a lot to talk about merit, let us say that in autumn 2005 the initiative adopted in Cairo came to us because of the thanks and efforts of our delegation at the parliamentary Euro-Mediterranean Conference. At the invitation of the competent Minister Zupan, the answer was "it" twice, both in Cyprus, when the Government was at the time of the visit, as is the case here on the question of parliament and the initiative, if this is a ambitious project. Later, thank God, it came to the realization that it was worth biting into this apple, and at an additional initiative, formally, colleague Pavliha also took this initiative and formed an appropriate expert group. With regard to the support of Germany, Poettering and so on, let me say that in Tunisia, even before colleagues Grims, Borrel and Poettering were activated, both gave our delegation support for this project. So there's a lot of credit here, and you don't have to attribute it to just one. I would also like to thank the expert group led by Secretary of State Lesjak, who has prepared a concrete implementation of this. But there is still a lot of road ahead of us, I hope that with the many efforts that are being made, of course, we have all accepted this and we joyfully support it, this Euromed University will be created, I hope, even in cooperation and with the inclusion of existing universities, especially coastal ones, as well as Ljubljana and Maribor and neighbouring universities in Trieste, Vidma and so on. So this project will really come to life. Once again, after hearing the debates of certain colleagues from the coalition, in particular the SDS, I am more concerned that the implementation of the substantively well-prepared meetings will be wrong and will not respond to what we all expect, us and colleagues from the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I therefore assume that, given what you said, then in this final version of the programme, the honorary sponsor of the conference will be Mr France Tsukati, the Supreme, and not the President of the National Assembly. That's just a warning, given what you said, given what we're reading. It's about the formal questions I've been commenting on today. And what bothers me is that in one week in the National Assembly, we will have two points of the agenda. We will have a agenda item "The Slovenian Presidency Programme of the Council of the European Union" and we have a point for which, like some others, I, in particular, lack integrity. If we already have information on the activities of the National Assembly, I would like this information to be comprehensive in order to include all activities, if you wish, of all those who have been elected to the National Assembly. These include, for example, activities that have taken place in preparation for this or activities that start in Brussels this evening, but are not being attended by anyone from the Slovenian Parliament for reasons that we can discuss very much. Joint meeting of some committees. Above all, I would expect Slovenia to have a joint programme. Not that it is the government's programme, but that it would be a joint programme of the Presidency, but somewhere in that so-called "famous confidential meeting" it was said that this purpose is not. Because if it were intended, then someone in Slovenia would know something about a document that has a 28 November date. And nobody knows anything about this document. And the document is called the "Programme of the Slovenian Presidency" and is expected to be adopted by the Government at its 180th regular session. The President of the National Assembly, I don't understand if we got this document or not, if this document was adopted on 28 November 2007, why he traveled to the National Assembly for 19 days. Why, when you convened a meeting of the National Assembly, and I believe so much, you are coordinating with the Government, or at least some secretaries-generals of the Government are sitting there, it was not estimated that the agenda item "Activities of the National Assembly" and the agenda item "Programme of the Slovenian Presidency" would be united. Because, I think we should take priority and talk about whether priorities are really right. We do not know what the objectives of the Presidency are, what are the reasons and what are the basic content. Because to me, you know, the basic content, and now I will quote just one quote: "The summer of 2008 should be on a new basis, with new challenges, where we should confirm in democracy that the living peoples of Western Europe, as totalitarian communism liberated nations from the middle of the eastern continent, courageously and in time took advantage of the historic moment of the end of the cold war." That's what it says in some program. That reminds me of 1948. In 1948 and 1951, and so on, some nations retreated from what some call totalitarian communism. In 1956, however, Hungary had a revolution and a counter-revolution. And of course, 2008 is not a year, because when Slovenia presides, a new foundation is a new challenge. I have a problem if the sole objective or the first objective of the ratification process of the Treaty of Lisbon is to be a priority of our presidency - or if that means now that everything we do in the National Assembly in this regard will be ratification. Will we do anything about the energy and climate package, and what will we really do? How we will work as a National Assembly with, if you want, the processing of integrated guidelines and whether we will not discuss at a private meeting how national parliaments should become equal partners in the decision-making process and how the European Parliament against the European Council and the European Commission should indeed become an important policy maker in the European Union. These aren't private affairs. That is why, I agree, Mr President, these are lost opportunities. I would like Mr Pöttering to talk about it tomorrow or elsewhere, and so obviously there will be no opportunity to do so, so I regret that we do not have our own programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Chairman. Interesting debate, but I see that this Presidency of Slovenia is simply what we are told to the European Union, and in particular the Government is more concerned about. The chairs opposite you are faithfully empty, and I thought that something would change towards the end of the debate. But I also see in a debate where I did not intend to report that this would, in particular, be a more internal political issue to deal with ourselves. Before that, I heard one of my colleagues discuss what happened, the whites and the reds. We missed the direction if we look back, not forward. In Europe, that was long ago taken into account and it is clear there who attacked someone, who was defended, and who, of course, was then an unnecessary victim of those times. I think we must use this presidency in particular for what lies ahead. If the Presidency of Slovenia reminds the European Union of life in the family, then, as long as important visits have been announced in advance, and then everything goes wrong and hides under the rug and we will visit and show our guests in the most beautiful light, then we have missed the direction. It is our job to simply show ourselves, within the Presidency of the European Union, as we are, with many beauties, natural gifts, tourism and, on the other hand, as a country that is a young democracy, which has many, many problems in this area. And I will be happy if, in the framework of the Committee Presidency and at these meetings, we also discuss inflation, which I think today is our number one problem, not that we are going to be beautiful and rich. We can be beautiful and rich from the airport to Brda, where we now thank God we have redesigned the center and the roads and at least this will remain in Slovenian and in Goranjska and I am happy all those who have helped in any way. However, it is likely that if we tell foreigners that maybe just a kilometer, two or more from this main road, there are people working in factories for 400 to 500 euros a month, that is money that cannot be lived with or die, that is the problem. And the question that those of Europe may have is the richer who will come to us, what an answer. Then there is an interesting question, besides European salaries, how to get to European roads. For example, because the Presidency will also take place in Gorenjska, which has been affected by the perception that they will tell us how they regulate the issue of leadership and water in Europe. Perhaps, because they are coming, the presidency of Brdo pri Kranj, just two kilometres from the presidency is also a depot that rumbles ghosts in Slovenia, and let us ask them how they solved waste management in Brdo. No, no, Kovor is quite well arranged and there are relatively small problems, but I think the problems in the immediate vicinity of Tenetis are significantly worse. And an interesting question; in Tenetis, for example, 15 representatives, 15% of the people, are now demonstrating, but what if they demonstrate those 85%, who are significantly more affected in this story, even in everyday finances. And perhaps it would also be a question for Europe that comes to us, how they tried to set a higher standard for the so-called rule of law and, without a doubt, there are representatives of countries that have already set up a story of denationalisation in their countries, in what way. Everyone is no doubt different from in Slovenia, where the injustices of our old parents are saved on the shoulders of our grandchildren. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u61	Thank you. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I interrupt this item on the agenda, which we will continue or interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue at 4 p.m. to address item 1 of the agenda, which is for the question of Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, please take your seats. We're continuing our session of the National Assembly. We're moving on to one. I have received written submissions from 18 Members on this item of the agenda. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition will be answered by the Prime Minister of the government. Next, the Minister of Economy will answer the question put by Ambassador Darje Lovtišar Bebler at the 33rd meeting of the assembly, to which he did not respond due to his absence. The answer to the unanswered question raised at the 33rd meeting of the assembly should also be answered today by the Minister of Public Administration. Since the Minister is justifiably absent, he will answer the question at the next meeting. Mr Mitja Slavinec, who has submitted two questions, will ask the second question when all Members ask one question. Each Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question, the President of the Government and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. With regard to this point, the following Ministers and Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food apologized for today: Mr Iztok Jarc, Minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and monitoring the development strategy of Slovenia - Dr Žiga Turk, Minister for the Interior - Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs - Mrs Marjeta Cotman, Minister for Public Administration - Dr Gregor Virant and Minister for Defence - Mr Karl Erjavec. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to any of the questions raised today, the President of the Government, Minister or Secretary-General of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. You have received a review of the questions sent and initiatives which have not yet been answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions, as stated, will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Janez Janša. The first question will be asked by Dr. Matej Lahovnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Government. At the beginning of this year, you sold the Slovenian steel industry to a Russian buyer, Koks. This sale has resulted in a number of contentious cases. The fact is that the sales price of EUR 105 million was 55% equity. However, if we look at the results of the Slovenian steel industry this year, we see that only in the first six months did it have a net cash flow of €52 million. We can see that the estimated result for this year is 68 million euros in net profit. And if we include depreciation, then we can find that the Slovenian Government sold the majority stake in the Slovenian steel industry practically for a little more than the annual net cash flow of the Slovenian steel industry. The data is almost incredible. It was also amazing that the Slovenian Government announced that it had sold the Slovenian steel industry for EUR 105 million, while the Russian buyer announced that it had paid 300 million euros for the Slovenian steel industry. Since it does not say where the remaining 200 million euros went, I will ask you further to explain. In particular, I would ask you: "How will the Slovenian Government compensate for the damage to small shareholders of the Slovenian steel industry who have been giving up their salaries for years to repair the Slovenian ironworks?" They have also submitted their certificates to the Slovenian steel industry, and now they have a legitimate feeling that they are severely damaged. In particular, I would ask you, as I said, for the first time, "How can you explain the difference between the buyer saying that he paid 300 million euros and the Slovenian Government says he paid 105 million euros?" Secondly: "How can you explain that the Slovenian steel industry has been sold so heavily below the market price that is pointed out by all real business indicators?" And I would also ask you: "In what way does the Slovenian Government intend to compensate this damage to small shareholders who have now remained in the company together for the mercy and mercy left to the majority owner, the Russian Cox?" In particular, I would ask you: "Will you personally advocate the disclosure of the contract relating to the sale of the Slovenian steel industry, and will you also advocate that all those involved in this business testify to the relevant Public Finance Supervisory Agency, where they would explain all the circumstances of the sale?" I am also asking you this because otherwise we will have no choice but to decide on an investigative committee to get to the bottom of the truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u64	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u65	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr President, for the question. In the case of the sale process of the Slovenian steel industry, the valuation of the independent authorised valuer was first carried out, which also established the price range. An international invitation to tender was made on this basis. Three tenderers submitted a binding offer and one of them was chosen, which was the best under all criteria. The price was marketed. It was very close to the upper limit of the price range. And even small shareholders were allowed to sell their shares under the same conditions if they wanted to. The buyer never claimed that the price was different from the price he paid. And the fact is, it wasn't about selling 100% of the stake. But it was a 55% sale. Comparing potential profits with the sale of only parts of ownership is incorrect. Almost sounds like they'd be glad if there wasn't that profit. We are glad that the company is successful. From, if, from a profit of around 60 million, the owner will pay more than 10 million euros in state treasury. And the rest will split up. Poor half of this profit will be won by Slovenian owners. It is also important to know that the buyer selected on the basis of the best offer has ensured that he will invest 250 million euros in the Slovenian steel industry in the coming years. Maybe someone got that number wrong on their website. The buyer undertook not to forgive workers in the following years and the buyer adheres to these arrangements. In the last year or at this time since the owner, the number of employees in this company has increased by 250. As far as small shareholders are concerned. If the thing is positive, as you said, and the profit is big and so far shows that the business is doing very well, then the price of the shares is growing and those who own it can only be happy. They weren't injured. And everyone could decide whether to sell it or not to sell it. I see no reason for anyone to be unhappy here. I also point out that the State has retained a control share of 25 plus one share because it is a strategic sector. And that this is very important from this point of view and in this way can still affect the buyer to comply with the obligations he has agreed to in the contract. Well, I don't see any reason to be ill-willed about this sale. There is also no reservation that Members do not see all the documents of the Treaty, etc. I think it's even more of an interest than the fact that an investigative committee is being set up. If you now set up an investigative commission, it will not even be fully established by the end of the term of office. It's just to do all the procedures to get these contracts. Calmly let an existing working body demand this contract and you will receive it and read it. The government has the least reason to hide these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u66	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I'd like to complete my question. In particular because I am very pleased that the business results of the Slovenian steel industry are the same as they are. But that's exactly the point of the problem. In fact, the sale was made practically in the spring of this year. And we all know that there's a conjuction in the steel industry, we all knew what these results would be, so it seems to me quite amazing that someone has made it to sell a majority share as much as the company's annual net cash flow. I don't know. What I would specifically point out is that, in principle, it would be true that small shareholders could be happy if the company quoted on the stock exchange, but not quoted. And since he is the majority owner of the company, he has a decisive word, including what will happen to profit, how it will divide and whether this profit will flow to Russia or elsewhere. In addition, there are claims that the purchase of the Slovenian steel industry was financed by Slovenian banks. And that you would not believe, it was for the Russians to acquire such a loan that shares of the same Slovenian steel industry were being invested. And that is exactly what you have repeatedly pointed out to be the issue. And I would really like to ask you for a concrete answer. What I finally pointed out, I didn't get an answer. "Will you personally advocate that the sellers, those who conducted the sale process, come before the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, present all the ingredients, contracts and answer all the questions?" Because of me, the session may also be closed to the public. But she was selling the lady, as far as I can tell, Maria Stuck. And everyone who's been involved, I think it's right to explain the circumstances. That is why I ask you to answer me specifically, because we have poor experience with representatives of the KAD and the SOD and other institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u68	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u69	I'm afraid that something we've said many times, not that it's not heard, but that it doesn't want to be heard. An international invitation to tender has been issued. Anyone could have competed. You say yourself that the conditions of the conjuncture of this sector have been known. There are many companies on the global market. There's also a lot of capital to know about it. If it really was what you say it was, I'm sure someone would have offered a higher price. There were three bidders. He was the one who was the best who offered the most and also offered to meet the other conditions. Among other things, for example, the tenderer committed himself to investing all the profits of the first three years in the development of the company. So he won't go outside of Slovenia. But this will be invested in the further development of the Slovenian steel industry. As far as the participation of those who have been operationally involved in the implementation of this part of privatisation is concerned, there is no problem. You can invite anyone, you can look at all the contracts and there is no need to close the meetings for the public.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u70	Thank you. The next question for the Prime Minister will be asked by Mr Victory Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u71	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, yesterday, Friskič's policy, which in fact sets up the Croatian government on the "Open" show, strongly affirmed that the Bay of Piran is not Slovenian and will never be Slovenian. By worrying about what Slovenia will do with these Croats increasingly aggressive interventions in Slovenia, Croatia will undoubtedly declare the ecological zone. The fact is that Slovenia somehow avoids any conflict situations and allows Croatia to steal 66 hectares of our territory in just one part of Notranj. At Hotiz, they're stealing our territory. Sečovlje and Dragonja will de facto anchor the border deep within Slovenian territory and so on. Furthermore, given that Slovenia has inherited the common Adriatic Sea and access to the open sea, it has also inherited other common rights. So I ask: "Why does the Republic of Slovenia not build hydroelectric power plants on Sava according to a project that allows for airworthiness to Ljubljana?" The fact is that the regulation of airworthiness at the same time as hydrocentrals allows without problems and with small additional costs the airworthiness to Ljubljana, and thus we also enforce those inherited navigation rights within the Danube pool, where we also belong to Slovenians. There is no doubt that also in terms of environmental protection, redirecting as many cargoes as possible onto the waterway, that this is an imperative and huge and totally untapped advantage of the Republic of Slovenia. The question is: "Why does the Republic of Slovenia not take advantage of these options and why does it not act in favour of the Republic of Slovenia for Croatia?" Sanader has already signed a decree on the need to build waterways all the way to Zagreb. With this, they intend to cut off Slovenia, for some of our politicians absolutely refuse and do not allow the construction of these boat passes on this path. I ask you: 'How is it possible that Slovenia does nothing for its own benefit? Why don't some ministers allow it? What is behind all this, or what arrangements with Croatia, or what debts with Croatia, or what else is there?"
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u72	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u73	Thank you for asking. As far as the ecological fisheries zone is concerned, Slovenia will insist on implementing the 2004 agreement. This agreement, which Croatia has signed with the European Commission, Italy and Slovenia, is binding on Croatia. It became part of the negotiating framework in 2005. In 2006 part of the instruments of Croatia's accession partnership to the European Union. And in December, it is said, at the beginning of this month, the Council of the European Union called on Croatia to fully respect this agreement. We believe that this agreement will be respected or that this last call by the Council of the European Union will be taken into account. He knows the consequences. This is no longer just a problem between Slovenia and Croatia. This is mainly Croatia's problem on its way to the European Union. As far as the snow forests are concerned, nothing's going on here. It is 70 hectares of Slovenian national territory. Slovenia also achieved, as soon as these conflicts began, that these forests were not exploited, that part of the territory was controlled by the Slovenian police. And according to Slovenian police recently, despite the fact that there were some records in the media, there was nothing going on in this territory. As far as the waterways are concerned, it would be difficult to answer now how much real projects are involved. However, when it comes to the realisation of the construction of the hydroelectric power plant chain on the lower Sava, we are only implementing the decisions that have been taken before. This government certainly hasn't changed any of that. So I can say calmly that no unilateral action by the neighbouring country has been lost in the mandate of this Government. Even when it went really well, as with Hotiz or Mirište, Slovenia reacted decisively and will do so in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u74	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u75	Thank you very much. It's about airworthiness first. We are taking substantial developmental perspectives and transforming them into a traffic blind intestine, which will absolutely depend on our southern neighbour, through the unreasonable blockade of the Sava's airworthiness regime to Ljubljana. It must be said that Mr Boris Kraigher already refused to sign the projects at the time on the construction of the Sava power plants, unless this project also included the possibility of allowing airworthiness to Ljubljana. It is interesting, as I have learned, that against these releases or against these crossings for ships, Mr Podobnik was very intense and declarative, who said: "No, we will not build these crossings for ships." Now, one wonders, "Why such a capitulant attitude towards neighbouring Croatia and what is in the back here?" With regard to the Snow forests, however, it must be said that Croatia has already managed to pin or mark the state border of the Republic of Slovenia in their way by assigning 66 hectares and several more territory to and determining that it is Croatian territory and no longer Slovenian territory. I think that the Slovenian Government does not react strongly enough to these matters and that it is simply happening and doing everything and constantly to the detriment of the Republic of Slovenia. Let's show some crores once. Let's say to the Croat, "No." and not wait for the Slovenian National Party to submit a request for a referendum on Croatia's entry into the European Union. This can be done by the Government itself in the shortest possible time, say, immediately after January 1st to the Croats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u76	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u77	So, the crust needs to be shown when it comes to action. It's easy to be sceptered by words. We've heard a lot about this in the last 15 years. As far as airworthiness is concerned, my fellow ministers have now provided me with information that the National Assembly, in its previous reference, has adopted the Strategy for Spatial Development of the Republic of Slovenia, which foresees the airworthiness of the Sava to Brežice. This is a decision taken in this high house in the previous term. As far as transit is concerned, Slovenia is not an appendix. But it's essentially too much of a burden. So we don't have you scared or lucky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u78	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u79	Thank you very much. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the National Assembly vote on an extended debate on the topic or issues related to neighbouring Croatia. We keep pushing this problem aside, and we don't want to go after it. I think it's high time we opened all the documents, all the registers. And not at secret meetings of the secret commission, which decides what else we will give to the Croats and what else we will allow them to be here in the State Assembly, but "magari" if we close the public meeting to tell ourselves what it really is. The fact is that we cannot allow Croatia, on the one hand, to intervene aggressively and with all means throughout Slovenian territory. On our side, we use a number of diplomatic notes or objections that never reach their goal. The fact is, the Croats are cheering on this. Of course, even with good supporters on their side. Political structures. Especially in the Federal Republic of Germany are Croats favored. After all, Mr Pöttering won the highest Croatian medal because he lobbyed for Croatia. Mrs. Doris Pak has received an honorary doctorate in Zadar for the same matters. A lot of people, not just her, but others, say Mr. Karl Bilt got a house on the Adriatic coast. Because he helped lobby for Croatia. And once again, it is high time for things to be said that they are exposed and that we will finally make one of the conclusions that we will stick to. Croats are trespassing in our territory. We don't do anything. At least the declaration in the National Assembly can be accepted unless otherwise stated. Croats do it, Croats stick to it. They are reviving the European Union and all other international provisions and doing what is in their favor. And I think it's high time the government didn't do it from 1992 to 2004 to get the current government to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u80	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Jelinčič to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The question to the Prime Minister will now be asked by Dr Mitja Slavinec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President of the Government! International research on PIRLS and PISA 2006 shows that our students and students have achieved more significant and better results in the past period than the OECD average. The results confirm what we have always stressed in the LDS that our children are good, that our school system is effective and quality. Our teachers are also commended. One reason for such a situation is for sure that in the past period the share of GDP in the budget allocated to education has increased. From 1995, when this share was 4.1%, it increased to 4.8% of GDP by 2005. The results of the survey in some way also deny your strong criticism of Slovenian education during the pre-election period. In 2004, it was heard from your mouth that Slovenia needed to modernise education. In the Society for the School of Humans, a cry and a cry were launched about the overload of our students, which the facts did not confirm. The Minister of Education announced a policy of small steps because, as he said at the hearing, he has no experience in this area that he will lead. He also ensured that he would try to take experts into account in this field. Unfortunately, your school policy has demented this prediction. It also decreases funding for education from 4.8% this year to 4.5% of GDP and in 2009, almost fifteen years ago to 4.3% of GDP. I do not understand all of this as a policy of small steps, small changes and worst of all, they have been introduced without professional grounds and with strong opposition from the professional public. We believe in the LDS that no radical change of the already reformed and European comparable system is necessary. More upgrading and improvement. Therefore, I would like to ask: "How do you intend to ensure in the future the conditions for achieving at least such, if not better results in the entire vertical of knowledge, including the tertiary work and how do you see the situation of knowledge in Slovenian society? Why have you reduced the share of GDP for education?" is my last question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u83	Thank you for asking. We are happy with the results shown by the research for last year. These results are better than they were a few years ago. This is due to the good work of teachers, parents, who themselves invest much in the knowledge of children, and not least of all students and students, as they themselves try to do. However, it would be the biggest mistake a society can make to conclude that its school system does not need modernisation. I spoke to the Prime Minister of Finland a few days ago. In this study Finland achieved first place and Slovenia 12 when it comes to science, reading and mathematics, or literacy. And change is a key part of the school policy developments in Finland. The same in Korea, which is ahead of us after this research. You fall asleep for one year, and then you feel the consequences for years. So if anything, then modern society needs constant adjustment to new challenges and constant changes. Opposing these changes is a way of turning back. The claim that it is all professions against change is a flat-rate claim which has nothing to do with reality. It is precisely the profession that is aware of this fact that the school system in every modern country in this global world must adapt to new challenges. As far as investing in education is concerned. Slovenia has never invested as much money on a student or on a student as it does today. The share of development resources within the Ministry of Education and Sport, which is dedicated to all levels of education, is increasing significantly in this mandate. In 2005, it amounted to 5.2% of the budget, 7% in 2006 and 7% in 2007. For the following year 8 and for 2009 9.3% are foreseen. Therefore, there is no basis for the claim that Slovenia underestimates or that this Government underestimates the importance of knowledge. On the contrary, this is one of the key comparative advantages we have. Slovenia must invest in knowledge, in education, in man, in students, students, students. Because this is the only way we can continue the positive development trends we have recorded over the last two years. There is no dispute in this regard. I was very surprised when I read this question, because in some ways it is suggested that modernisation is not necessary to upgrade if the results of some research show that we have achieved good results in last year. So, I think the message of these studies is the other way around.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u84	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Nobody's ever talked about not having to change. I also said myself that we want the reformed system to be upgraded, complemented, not radically modified. So we certainly agree with the need to correct, improve, and do so without letup. As for the results, we both know it's too soon to interpret TIMS. As a result, the interpretation may be such or different. But we're in trouble with a doctor who's a phantom. A profession without names and surnames that doesn't appear anywhere in public. Always the government or the minister just insists the profession has done so. I would stress that education should not be solely for itself. Education must be such as to provide as much quality as possible and as much applied knowledge, I stress, knowledge. The school system, today's school system as the fruit of your policy, does not provide an average of higher knowledge, but rather a higher formal education. And finally, that's what the Minister of Mag has confessed. Vizjak, when he said that education does not provide knowledge in the debate on the Trade Act. Such an interpretation, such a statement, certainly cannot be found in such a society where knowledge does not count. For this reason, I am really curious: "After the school toll has passed, will you also introduce the school euro and thus ensure adequate funding and sufficient funding for the school system, and this, I stress, is the whole vertical approach, including this 8 million deficit in the area of higher education, which, according to the draft budget for the following year?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u86	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u87	I don't know if I should repeat the numbers you all know because you've been adopting budgets for the next two years. This government significantly increases the investment of a student or student in the school system. She's already done that. This is how we plan for the next two years. This additional issue was also contradictory. Unless, with changes that have not been revolutionary, no one has introduced revolutionary changes in the school system in this mandate. They were corrections, additions, modernisation, which is always necessary. But there were no revolutionary changes. But, as bad as these corrections would be, the results of this research that was carried out last year, according to this mandate, during the term of office of this school minister, would not show any good results. Well, I see no point in asking illogical questions. However, if we are already talking about the darker wages and negative consequences of some of the previous approaches in the Slovenian school system, I will tell you only the case that we encountered last year when we visited one of the major companies in the Central Slovenian region. There the director told us that they had just completed the call for a business secretary and two machine engineers. 800 people applied for the post of Business Secretary, Doctors of Philosophy, Journalism and so on, one candidate applied for the city of two machine engineers. With a light on the white day, Slovenian companies are looking for engineers and other technical profiles today, and we have hundreds of university-educated people at employment institutions, social profiles for which there are no jobs. This is the result of a school policy that is now putting itself on the pedestal of success.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u88	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Slavinec.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u89	Yes, I have a procedural proposal to hold a broader debate at one of the next meetings on Mr Janez Janš's replies. I justify this because obviously the issue is broad enough, important enough and also complex enough to make it necessary and useful for a wider debate to be rethought. We have also seen with the Prime Minister that time was running out for questions as well as for thorough answers. However, I do have a number of concrete facts and a justification for why. For in such a short time, certain facts can be interpreted, reversed, and manipulated very quickly. But it's a fact. In 1995, GDP was 4.1%; in 2005, it was 4.8%, 0.7% higher. In 2007, it fell from 4.8% to 4.5% and in two years only 4.3% were projected. These are the facts, this is the proportion of GDP. Next thing you know, there's no radical change. Of course, they're radical changes. The choice is below the average in the European Union and in the OECD countries. This is one of the changes that's radical to me. Then abolishing learning success with the excuse that excellence is too much. Disengagement of the NICU. He also wanted to introduce 100% private school funding, while the share of money allocated to education was declining. That's what we saw. The numbers clearly show. I'm aware there are fewer students at this point. But even if there's only two in the car instead of four, the car has to be maintained. Now we can't just half of the school, like, maintain it if instead of two shifts, classes run in one shift. So, of course, it doesn't hold. And keep going. Correct inter-resor coordination. I mentioned the Minister of Vision earlier, and also his laws on the deregulation of professions, etc. It does damage to education, in particular vocational education. Luckily, this thing didn't go through. And there are a lot of things like that. Education is certainly the basis, like the one on which we will be able to build progress on knowledge and not on cheap labour. That's how much he deserves a broader debate. Please support my procedural proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u90	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Slavinac to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The next and last question will be asked by the Prime Minister of the Government. Franz Gniedarsich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u91	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, Honourable Council of Ministers, President of the Government, colleague and colleague! In government materials, the stability programme, the addition of 2007 we read that the Government has set up a special working group that is preparing a novel on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. We are surprised that no expert, a representative of the Democratic Party of the Retired, or that DeSUS as a coalition partner on the work and objectives of this group has been invited to participate in this group, or that DeSUS as a coalition partner was not at all familiar or familiar with the other public at the time. So I ask you, Mr President, "What are the starting points on which you are preparing a novel on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act?" We are also interested in: "Does the changes in the law mean a significant shift from the current regime?" In view of the addition of the Stability Programme, it is clear that, as a possible root measure, a shift to 80% indexation is envisaged in the alignment of the pension with the average wage. The tightening of the social transfer policy, which will reduce their share of GDP, is also highlighted at the expense of the social security of marginal social groups. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u92	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u93	Thank you so much for asking. At the beginning of this mandate, the government adopted a law allowing pensions to be re-coordinated with salaries or wage increases. And we do not intend to change this law. Even when it comes to any other changes, the government is not preparing any changes to this law at this time. The working group, which was established in 2005 and subsequently supplemented several times, was composed of experts who were not proposed by either coalition or any other party. No party shall be represented in this group. They don't even have housing associations with representatives in this group. This group is monitoring developments in this area and, if necessary, proposes certain solutions. However, it was established when we were preparing to implement the measures set out in the set of economic and social reforms. It wasn't a secret. About the stability program. There is no record in this programme that the government is expected to compensate for 100% of the coordination with 80%. There are only a few simulations in this material that predict effects if certain changes occur. These scenarios just need to be written. So there is no basis for any conclusion that the Government is preparing amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u94	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Of course, your answer is kind in this sense that no changes are envisaged in this mandate, which is good and we agree with that. I would just like to add that there is no harmonisation with wages. However, pensions are still lagging behind, as can be seen in the use of pension funds in the annual report of the Institute. And on this issue, I would like to ask you, "What about your previous prediction that we will clean up the pension allowance of everything that does not belong to it?" In fact, only then would it be possible to see what the pension actually means for all those who have paid the contributions and what they can expect in view of this amount of funds that actually belong to those who have paid the contributions. Everything else is social and a matter of solidarity and weighing according to objective and current economic and budgetary options as a whole. In this respect, we still expect to take the necessary steps to ensure that social welfare is withdrawn from the pension register. Because then we will see what needs to be done and where it would indicate a change in the law or what revision of the pension system would be necessary to ensure its long-term sustainability and thus not endanger the acquired pensioners on the one hand and, on the other hand, stop with some kind of fear of what will happen. In particular, the last measure taken by the Government in the context of social transfers has made the situation of pensioners worse. Six rights have become social. If they were, then they would be moved to the family, work, and social area, and they would no longer be burdened with pension bills, and then the matter would be cleaner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u96	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u97	The separation of pensions from social services is certainly something that needs to be done consistently in Slovenia, because it is two different systems. Why it sometimes confused conceptually, though, is an interesting story. I wouldn't be going in there right now. We've done a lot in this area. However, some measures are still needed and will be implemented. However, this will in no case affect the situation of pensioners. Not like that, not otherwise. The situation of pensioners has not deteriorated in this mandate. But he's improved significantly. In the case of amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Government proposed a model that entered into the coalition contract at the request of DeSUS. That's exactly the solution. This was also the condition of this party to participate in the coalition. And this solution was supported. Because we share the view in other parts of the coalition that it is fair that those who have contributed in their past work to the basis on which we are making progress now share the same results as those who are now contributing with their work. That's what we put in place. The government has been very critical of how the public-financial system will fail. Tons of articles were written in this sense. None of this happened. The pension system in Slovenia is significantly more stable at the end of 2007 than it was at the end of 2004, and it is also significantly less burdensome than budget expenditure, because we have provided stable funding through a number of measures and because, with general measures that have increased economic growth and employment, we have also ensured the long-term stability of this system. As employment increases, when more people contribute to the pension fund, the pressure to cover the common treasury from the budget is reduced. This image significantly improves, significantly. There is no reason for pessimism, provided that we maintain positive economic trends, which is our purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u98	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u99	Thank you very much. So we absolutely agree that for the third year, the pension fund is stable and the masters have no losses. It is also true that we have changed the contract by law. But it's not true that we did it the way it says it. The regression in 2005 did not increase as much as it should. It also does not increase to 75% of what is being said in the public sector. But last year, with the Social Transfer Act, he was frozen. So that I am not entirely satisfied with the President's replies. However, given the fact that there will be no significant changes in this mandate in the area of pension legislation, I will not propose a debate on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u100	Mr. Znidarsich, that was unfair. We turn to questions from Members of Parliament and Members of the Ministers. And I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. At the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly, Parliamentary Dara Lavtijar Bebler asked the Minister of Economy of Mags a question. Andrei Vissiak. As the Minister was not present, the Member requested an oral reply to the next meeting of the assembly. That's why I'm giving my word to the Minister for the Magnificent Economy. Andre Visiak to answer her question. This is a question concerning the sale of State shares in Iskraemec. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u101	Dear Members! In July 2006, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the State’s Gradual Withdrawal Strategy and placed Iskraemecco’s shares in a group of non-marketable investments for which a time frame of 30 months is set. Iskraemeco probably also found itself in the media. This is due to business problems and also to major losses. Therefore, the owners of the KAD and the SOD, the key owners of the KAD and the SOD, as well as the other authorising officers, have similarly found that the company needs fresh capital on the one hand and needs a strategic partner urgently. Therefore, both Slovenian Indemnity and Capital Company, together with DUS’s authorised company, started the sale process in April 2007. Potential strategic partners also had to make offers and, as always, in this case, the latter was mainly a dual objective. The first objective is to further develop the company to find a strategic partner company with added investments, by opening markets, with other measures to ensure long-term development and, on the other hand, optimised prices. Awards were made. Offers were also raised. The company was sold at a price of 101.5 euros for the share, which exceeds the estimated value of the share. It is also important that they are buyers, that is to say that the buyer, by signing the contract for unlimited time, guarantees that the company will remain as an independent legal person in the Republic of Slovenia in order to maintain the name and seat of the company and its own departments for the development of Iskraemec. In addition, the buyer committed itself to the following in order to maintain the number of jobs or the number of employees. Improve the market position, the development of associated companies, other associated companies. Improve financial management, improve IT infrastructure. And a whole bunch of other measures that guarantee the further development of Iskraemec. So, respectable. This was also adequately secured and a key guide in the divestment and withdrawal of the country from Iskreemec, for the first time providing a strategic partner who would develop a system that would provide jobs, thus ensuring the long-term pro-piety of this important economic operator and which also offered an optimal price, which in this case exceeded the estimated value ordered by the sworn valueholders. This process was also conducted in a public, transparent manner. Everyone had a chance. He was chosen the best.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u102	Thank you. We are moving on to the first round of questions from Members of Parliament and Members. Mr Bevk alone will ask the Minister of Economy a question. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will repeat my procedural proposal from the previous meeting, which refers to the fact that we are under.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u104	Mr. Squeakl, you have a procedural proposal to stop [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u105	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u106	to continue [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u107	Let me tell you my procedural proposal. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u108	Cases referred to in the previous sitting [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u109	if the Government can answer us in the course of today's meeting, when Members will receive the answers to the first seven questions put on the first one, as we can see from the review. [[...]] Because these questions were raised in April or March of this year, there are still no answers. I think it's either the job or you as president. However, the government is here - whether the Government will answer these questions at any time. It's important questions. At each session, we get these questions clearly presented as unanswered. And, of course, I would like to know if the Government is taking the institution of the question. Again, I am protecting the interests of Members, even if this time it is primarily the Members of the Coalition. But the questions are well known. I wouldn't repeat them. These are questions that have probably been asked for another purpose than to get an answer. My procedural question is that the Government, in the course of this agenda item, ministers are here, Mr Secretary-General can ask them, prepare answers to these questions so that we can at least know if there is anything behind these insinuations. But if not, let the government say there will be no answers, all of them were insinuations and the institution of the question was abused. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u110	Mr. Squeakle, you know the drill. You have enough time in this National Assembly to now be answered by ministers to the questions raised, which are listed in the list of these questions. If you want a special question, please address the Government as usual. Mr Bevk alone will ask the Minister of Economy a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u111	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! In many municipalities, the state owns property and facilities that are essentially a business unnecessary property of the State and in some ways impedes the development of local communities. My question concerns properties in Idrija, which are linked to the closure of the Idrija mine and to properties in Jesenica and Ravna in Koroška, which came into the hands of a new Russian owner at the time of the sale of the Slovenian steel industry. In 2004, on my proposal, the National Assembly adopted a new Law on the Prevention of the Effects of Mining in the Idri mercury Mine. The law provides that after 2006, the mine's activity is to be modified to maintain an indemnified part of the cave, monitoring and maintenance of the tourist mine. It is also laid down in this Act that the State may, free of charge, transfer a portion of the property owned by the mine that is not necessary to carry out maintenance parts of the indemnified part of the cave and is used as a public good. It is specified in the amendment to transfer parcels to the municipality in the area of Mayce, former mine smelters, Barbara parking lots, further parcels in Brusovša and in the area of the elementary school complex and parcels in the area of Jaška Delo. By that time some of the plots had already been returned to the congregation of Idrija, some of which would still be. The most profitable mine or state is to be sold at auction. However, the situation in Jesenica is much worse, where a swimming pool, a third of the sports hall under Mežakljo, a small settlement of private houses and so on were found in Russian hands when the Slovenian steel industry sold. Also, without consideration in the sales package of Metal, real estate in Ravna, Koroška, were found to have virtually nothing in common with the Slovenian steel industry. Minister of Economy, Mag. Andrej Visiak, I ask: "What is the plan for the transfer of property to the municipality of Idrija, as provided for by the 2004 law, and what can the Government do to repair the damage it has done to the sale of shares in the Slovenian steel industry, when it has also sold real and unnecessary assets within the framework of the Slovenian steel industry in Jesenica and Ravna in Koroškem?" Minister Mag. I would like to thank the visionary for his answers, which are of particular interest to the citizens of Idrija, Jesenica and Ravnem in Koroška. And everywhere else, where the state owns a large number of properties.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u113	Thank you very much. First of all, I reject the insinuation that the country sells shares in the Slovenian steel industry to any real estate to a Russian buyer. That's not true. It's a hoax. And it's simply used obviously for some, I don't know, political or whatever purposes. In short, that didn't happen. The government or privatisation commission and later the government sold part, 55% of the shares of the Slovenian steel industry and nothing more and nothing less. That's the first thing. The other thing is that I see that unfortunately this is happening several times now and is misleading the Slovenian public. And second of all, real estate. Article 12 of the Law on the Prevention of the Effects of Mining in the Mine of Mercury Idrija provides that the State may transfer the unpaid part of the property owned by the mine to the Municipality of Idrija. In the programme of maintenance of the indemnified part of the cave and monitoring, after completion of the closures in the mine, also confirmed by the Government, the destruction and change of the destination of the facilities and surfaces are shown in all parcels owned by the Idri Mine. For plots that the mine will not need for its activities after the closure, we have also set future destinations. The parcels, which in nature represent a public good, should also be transferred to the Idrija Municipality without payment, and the other parcels would be sold. On 15.11.2007, the municipality of Idrija addressed an application for the transfer of land owned by the Rudnik of mercury to Idrija Municipality. The application relates to parcels in the area of Nietzsche, Bardera parking lot - I apologize if it is wrong, if I am wrong - cave work and cleaning equipment Idrija. The Supervisory Board of the Society was dedicated to this request and discussed this at its 41st regular meeting on 12.12. This is said to have been recently, and adopted the conclusion that the requests for those parcels which are in the maintenance programme of the unsupplied work and after the completion of the monitoring are intended to be transferred free of charge to the Ores. It is said that this request has been accepted to this extent, as I have said. These are plots in the area of the cleaning plant, parking lot and the part of the Njece, where they are also built and built a multi-purpose playground. However, as far as the Slovenian steel industry is concerned, it does not own more important properties, but shares of subsidiaries, I have to be very clear, and subsidiaries have their own administration and supervisory authorities and, in accordance with their powers, also have property ownership.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u114	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u115	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. If this did not hold up, as I said about the real estate from the sale of the Slovenian steel industry, then the autumn mayor would not try to negotiate with the Russian owners how to resolve this complicated hat. And also an expert mag. In the meantime, he taught me how to use the assets and liabilities of these companies, so I think my claims were in place. However, Article 21 of the Law on Harmonised Regional Development and Article 418 of the Law on Economic Companies make it possible to transfer commercially unnecessary assets, and I think this should be respected. Of course, I am also aware that the mercury mine Idrija and the country will also actually sell some very interesting properties. The sale of a former mining holiday home at an attractive location in Ankaran with the associated lands and the area of the Jaška Delo will be especially outstanding. In this case, however, money from purchases - probably if auctioned, for a few million euro of funds - should not be lost in an integrated state budget, but should be dedicated to the further implementation of the Idrija mine closure law. That's why the Minister of Mags. I ask the visionary: Do you agree that the proposed use of funds or that these funds would be used for mining damage, for ecological damage, for the rehabilitation of the rich technical heritage of the Idrija mine? Indeed, all this wealth, which will now be sold, has created generations of Idrian miners, and it would be right to return to the mining city of Idrija and its further development.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u116	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u117	Of course, I will be the first to raise my hand for a fair and just payment of the consequences of mining and all that has caused damage to human health and property. At the same time, however, you must be aware that we are making quite good money from the budget for these things in terms of closing and eliminating the consequences. And it seems relatively uneconomic to me now to discuss that we are constantly giving this out of the budget, that what is actually still worth it there should not be a return to the budget. If, therefore, it is also assessed in the field of the Government of Regional Development and Local Self-Government that a certain transfer of real estate would mean a new developmental impulse for Idria, for the environment, and these properties could serve it, then I will be the first to raise my hand to give a developmental option in short with the transfer of real estate. However, in order to simply pass on some of the properties that the congregation will then sell on and provide some funds to the congregation, my well-respected Minister of Finance would probably have some problems because I think this is problematic and not only problematic in terms of the management and application of the Article on Harmonized Regional Development. As far as I am aware, the provision referring to the transfer of real estate, designed in a developmental sense, is that if that transferred property meant some kind of developmental impulse, some developmental option for the municipality, not to sell it instead of the state and thus provide funds. Once again, the country will and must take responsibility for the recovery of the consequences of mining, I think that all relevant programmes, conclusions, and that the matter is also provided through budgets, and we will continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u118	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we hold a debate in the National Assembly on Mr Mag's response. A visionary, because I don't think he fully answered these questions. In particular, I would like to hold a debate in the National Assembly on how this property in the city of Idrija will be used in the developmental sense, how the funds that the mine and the state will derive from the sale of the tourist complex in Ankara and the very attractive location in the area of the cave of Work will be used. I think it's right to clear these things up here, because it's not about the municipality of Idrija then using these things for some imaginary and wasteful investments, but for investments that are developmental. Above all, I think that the State should install or use these funds in order to properly present a rich technical heritage that has remained after half a thousand years of mining in the city of Idria, which is linked to the acquisition of mercury. Indeed, already in 2009, Idria's mining heritage is expected to be on the UNESCO World Heritage List, and we do not have items in the State budget that would provide funds for this project and also for others, as I mentioned earlier, for mining damage, for environmental damage, for the operation of a new company, for the European Union's living silver information and research centre, which should be in Idria and so on. Moreover, I think that we should also clear up the real estate issues concerning the sale of the Slovenian steel industry to the Russian buyer, which is also a question that has only been partially answered. In fact, we would like to clarify the question: Does the Government, before selling capital shares in individual companies, check what the real assets of these companies are in nature? This is often related to the transport and sports infrastructure of local communities - previously mentioned a swimming pool in Jesenica and part of a sports hall under Mežaklje, and here I have four sides of pitches, which are also non-ferrous, but are real estates from the town of Ravna in Koroškem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u120	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Bevek to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy to his question of departure, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mag. Borut Saiovic will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary and the rest of the Council of Ministers! My question concerns the Minister for Environment and Space, but it is a matter of resolving the problems we have on the ground with the chimney service. The story is drawn from 2004 when we adopted the Environmental Protection Act, which states that the implementation of measurements, inspection and cleaning of combustion plants, smoke ducts and air ducts is defined as a compulsory economic public service and the law further states that it is possible for this service to have free access to combustion and other facilities and that this will be regulated within the next six months after the adoption of the law. Although the law was passed long ago in 2004, we have not yet been able to grant all concessions in Slovenia. According to some, we have been able to grant concessions in some 91 municipalities from the media of the summary data, and in some municipalities I hear that the distribution is still taking place, that the ministry is also trying to prepare a new tender, but the obstacles are also of a legal and judicial nature. We welcome the fact that the Government of June last year has established 194 chimney areas, with areas for new municipalities not yet established. With more than half of the municipalities' problems unresolved, there is another problem that seriously affects our citizens and citizens, it is the charging of these chimney services. Here we estimate that control is too small and abuse is large, as some point out that review prices have risen from 102% to 130%, while cleaning from 684% to 800%. I believe that this is not the basis of the law, but perhaps even irregular controls and will in the field undoubtedly contribute to this growing inflation. As Minister, I ask you, "What do you think you're doing to make this situation better? Do you think the Law on Environmental Protection is responsible for this? Why has the Ministry not yet decided to amend the legislation? Do you think changes are necessary? And in your opinion, did the sharp rise in the prices of chimney services, most felt by natural persons, result from a vague disputed regulation or a decision to set tariffs for the prices of the services of this compulsory State economic service? And: As a minister, perhaps in the future, are you planning certain measures to improve the situation in this area? [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u122	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Ambassador Mag. Sayovic, thank you so much for your question. As you said, this is a topic related to the amendment of the 2004 Environmental Protection Act. On the basis of this law, which transferred the implementation of the chimney service to the national level, a specific regulation was then adopted, which is crucial for the whole story. It was adopted on 25 November 2004 at one of the last meetings of the previous government, when it was formally able to carry out only ongoing business, and was published on 3.12.2004. The following day, the new government took an oath and also established a concessional method for the implementation of this public service and detailed the first award of the concession without a call for tender. And it happened that the new government, the then new government and the current government, was in a position at the beginning of 2005, when this new regulation of the chimney service had to be implemented, because it was not and is not now possible to change it. This would constitute an unconstitutional intervention in the rights or legitimate expectations of persons who have the right to obtain a first concession without a call for tender. This is a key issue that I have been dealing with since then as Minister, and I want to find the most corrective way out. One of these is, remember, that this National Assembly, on our proposal, adopted an authentic explanation of the two articles under which the right to obtain a concession without a call for tender would be limited to those operators who entered into a contract with the municipality in public tender, without which only on the basis of a specific provision of the municipal decree. But this solution, this authentic interpretation, has been annulled by the Constitutional Court if it is not possible to retroactively introduce additional conditions for obtaining the first concession without a call for tender. Therefore, it follows that the current legal arrangements of the chimney service cannot be substantially changed until the first concessions take place. It must be said, however, that with the two amendments to the regulation, we have reduced the duration of the first concession, that we have tightened the supervision of implementation and have also allowed user complaints to be lodged with our ministry. We have some information, my answer will be expanded, we will also provide you with it in writing, what is now going on with the first concession. Of the 244 of these procedures, 201 have already been completed, 37 have been in various stages of the administrative dispute and 9 have been in the proceedings at our ministry. I must admit that these are very complex procedures, because there are competing demands of operators, as well as some municipalities have had this service relatively poorly regulated and have also had vague and incomplete acts and contracts. Even so, as a ministry, unfortunately, these procedures cannot be accelerated in this context, which is what many would have wanted. On the basis of the completed procedures, 100 concession contracts have already been concluded with the operators of the chimney service to which the concession has been granted for a period of 8 years. We have made 15 public tenders for concessions where it has already been definitively decided not to grant a real concession without a public invitation to tender. The new calls will be published by the end of this year, for 52 chimney areas, where we have managed to resolve applications for public call and applications for public tender. About the prices themselves. Here I must say that, on the basis of the conclusion on the prices of chimney services this August, we have achieved that the prices of chimneys for combustion plants with a heat output of more than 50 kilowatts have been reduced by an average of 25% and the prices of annual inspections by an average of 18%. There are also lower prices for the measurement of emissions of flue gases and initial inspections and installations. I'm talking on average. In some Slovene municipalities, such as those of the smaller municipalities that had significantly lower prices in the past, prices also increased slightly on the basis of this Decision. With a new decision on the price of chimney services, the accounting of services for combustion plants up to 50 kilowatts at higher prices is now hampered, as some operators have actually exploited them. We have also introduced the possibility of carrying out a control check only if cleaning is not necessary for the intended period. We have therefore practically reduced prices by a decision on the prices of chimney services, except for three prices when it came to eliminating illogicality, but it was a minimum correction. Once again, we have determined only the cost of mechanical cleaning for heat transmission combustion plants that are heated on solid fuels. More will also be answered in the written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u124	Thank you, Minister. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I think the ministry is aware of the problem that solutions are going in the right direction, but it seems to me that more speed is needed here. For example, the Regulation on Amendments and Supplements, etc. has been published in the Official Journal 105/07, which does not address these issues sufficiently. It is good in this Regulation that the correction lays down the way and the reasons for the withdrawal of the concession or that the concession may be transferred, that the deadlines for the answers and complaints are set and that the powers, controls are laid down. Now the work of the chimney service is to be strictly controlled. I think that's a good idea. Three inspections, but how they will coordinate in the field is already a matter that will have to be resolved. However, the problems of the tariff work are not fully addressed by the decision to determine the price of the services of the compulsory State of the public service. Thus, the decision changed the monetary unit, the previous tolar, to 0.44 euros per minute, but there is still a huge gap in practice between prices and calculation after actual time use. If the average actual use of time for certain services is taken into account and multiplied by a factor of 0.44 euros per minute, the difference on the basis of the price published may theoretically be up to 200%, which seems to us strongly too. In such cases, operators shall refuse to pay the bill after the actual consumption of time. The question is also raised: How will the inspectors find that a service has been overcharged in the opinion of the debtor? And: Who will decide the issue? I think it is right that the issue is being solved in this direction, but instead of that classic procedural issue in the debate, I want all of us together to hold onto the button at the end of the year and we want to: Good luck! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u126	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. You can touch the button [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u127	Thank you very much. This desire to get the button back. I think we're all gonna need this. The Member of Parliament has raised a number of questions, one relating to this regulation, the other related to inspections and the third to the price. I must reiterate that this is a relatively complex area, and personally, as Minister, I take very seriously this obligation, which the Environmental Protection Act of 2004 placed on the great joy of the mayors of that time, Members of the municipalities, to the country so that there is no misunderstanding. You refer to the Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on the chimney service. The area of unallocated concessions was not meant to be regulated by this amendment to the Regulation. This amendment to the Regulation was primarily intended to regulate and specify inspection and user complaints procedures. We have seen this from practice that this needs to be clarified. However, the award of concessions was already provided for in the current smoker service regulation. With regard to the award of the concessions themselves, I have given you quite a bit more information, as I say, in a written reply. About the inspections. Indeed, three inspections are in charge, a chimney service with its services on small combustion plants covers three areas: covering environmental protection, covering the protection of human health - very important and covering fire protection. And since this area is covered by three inspectorates, all three inspectorates are included in the surveillance. Last but not least, since 1991 this regulation and the chimney service regulation have only further specified the competence of individual inspectorates, including on the proposal of the inspection services themselves. As far as the price of chimney services is concerned, perhaps another explanation. The price of chimneys is accepted, these prices are the maximum prices that can be charged by the operators of chimneys. As a rule, these service prices are defined as average prices as tariffs. However, if the actual time spent is less than the average time set, the lower price may be calculated. This is where the contractor and the user have to agree. We estimate that in cases where the actual time spent is significantly less than [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the average time needed to perform the services, however, is a problem of quality performance and the scope of the service itself. [[...]] We want these shortcomings and will resolve them through professional supervision, and this allows us precisely the Regulation on amendments and additions to the chimney service regulation in cooperation with the inspectorates I mentioned earlier. Again, I stress that it is the responsibility of inspectorates to control the operation of chimney services, and in one segment also our ministry and of this responsibility. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We're not running away. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u128	Thank you. Mr Ivan Grill will ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honourable Minister and the Minister. The modern way of life and the ever longer life are two of the reasons why in the field of disease for the most serious diseases, I have here mainly in mind cancer diseases, attributed as one of the main reasons. Fortunately, new methods of treatment, new methods of diagnosis, new medicines and medical sciences are taking a step closer to improving the treatment of these diseases, so that in both Slovenia and the world today we have the possibility of treatment and this successful treatment, for diseases that were considered untreatable months or years ago. As is known, Slovenia can also compare with more developed countries in the area of the introduction of these new medicines, these are mainly biological medicines. That is why I am curious: "Can they provide us with an empirical comparison, how can we compare biological medicines in Slovenia with more developed countries? I would also like to ask: Do you have any information on how we have increased funds from 2001 to 2007 in the area of the dissemination of treatment programmes with these medicines? And since even in Slovenia we are seeing a trend towards an increase in disease for the most serious diseases - because even in Slovenia, people are getting older, there is probably also some trends in treatment in the future - I wonder: Is there a project already made here or how the biomedical treatment projection should continue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador Ivan Grill. Mr President, honourable Members and Members. On the issue of the use of biological medicines in the field of cancer, let me say that since 2000, the cost of such medicines has increased several times, namely in 2006 7.6 million medicines for prescriptions and around 3 million medicines for direct use in hospitals, that growth since 2000 is exceptional, especially for cancer because they are medicines that have come to the market later, such as diabetes treatment and an example of multiplex sclerosis. There's been a little bit more spent here in the past. About €10 million is spent on diabetes treatment and €7 million on mutliplex sclerosis as of today or last year. Trends are certainly growing, and from 2005 to 2006, at least €6 million have grown to €7.6 million. This increase will go even further upward, although it represented 39% of all medicines released in 2006, all biological medicines intended for the treatment of cancer have already been given prescriptions. The trend will also go up because the incidence of cancer in Slovenia and Europe is on the rise, so we have also dedicated the Presidency of the European Union in the field of health mainly to cancer. That is why we also have the most modern equipped Cancer Institute, which can do much in the field of curative, and it is also important that we introduce prevention in the near future in the field of intestinal cancer and breast cancer, because they are the most common cancers that occur in us. How far behind we are behind the developed countries I do not have accurate data, but I have information that there is a very large difference between the countries that enter, which have entered, which have joined the European Union at the time of Slovenia's entry. That is why, within the Presidency, this topic is also intended to bring these Member States closer to previous or old European Union countries in the area of early detection. Everything is focused on the need to prevent and detect cancer by healthy lifestyles and early enough, when treatment is still manageable, otherwise it is difficult for any health treasury to cope with this burden, which is very much due to the fact that we do not anticipate additional resources in the area of health, at least not in the established methods, as they are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u131	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u132	Yeah. Thank you very much. Well, I am very pleased with this information that the Ministry is also trying to pay particular attention to the treatment of people with cancer in the future, and not least that this is the focus of great attention also shows that we have the Oncology Institute, which is one of the most modern in this part of Europe, and this also recognises all the professions. However, given that you have mentioned that Slovenia, now that it takes over the Presidency of the European Union, is paying particular attention to health or health care, I wonder: Does the Ministry now have an action plan or a list of activities or areas to which it will pay particular attention and thus attract other members of the European Union to work together to contribute as much knowledge and resources as possible in the field of curative cancer? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u133	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Commissioner Markos Kyprianou also very much welcomed this topic, and when I had the opportunity to meet with most of the European Union's Ministers of Health, we are actually sharing about the same fate with all of them. That is why the new European Union strategy, which was endorsed by the Council of Ministers in December 2007, speaks and highlights in particular two topics that may be slightly different from before. It is said that health is an integral part of all policies and that we simply cannot pass through it: we cannot or pass the environment, nor pass education, nor pass food, agriculture and so on. Another important point is that the emphasis on health promotion and prevention is the red thread of all Europe, because there is simply no other key in the developed world, there are no doctors who can greet as many of us as we can. Because all European countries are engaged, they are faced with a shortage of doctors, including Slovenia, Italy is the only one who has more because of the system and because of the education policy that it had during a certain period. The events that will take place in Slovenia on the subject of cancer are held at the highest level in February in Brdo. This will be a ministerial conference and it will talk about all four stages of cancer: promoting a healthy lifestyle, prevention, especially cancer transplantation, because early detection really means the most good solution, and then the treatment itself, and finally the rehabilitation and return of the person to the environment, both at work and at home. Because of the fact that we forget too much that the family is suffering from such shocks, this cycle is about to end. Then there will be some important events. In particular, the association of 200 groups of all European patients from all members with cancer associations will hold a conference in Brussels on 9 and 10 April. Then there will be a central European conference on lung cancer in Ljubljana from 12 to 14 June and a workshop on systemic cancer biology on 19 and 20 May at the level of the European Commission. This is just a few key events, but there will be many more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Han will also ask the Minister of Health the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have recently witnessed the so-called award of the third wave of concessions in health activities at the primary level. I am afraid that the concessions granted did not improve access to health services. But it was an outflow of personnel from health homes that they probably couldn't replace. Concessions shall be granted despite opposition and warnings by health-care institutions that the departure of health personnel, especially doctors among concessionaires, will constitute a significant deterioration in the working conditions of public institutions. As the best doctors with the most enrolled patients are leaving, the loss of public health resources at home is so much higher. On average, one doctor’s home, or office, is expected to lose about 100,000 euros in annual income. As a result of the concessions granted this year, several health homes are also forecasting a loss in business. Even today, however, a large majority are unable to carry out legally defined tasks. Let me mention that 14 homes in Slovenia have already lost a pediatrician, 12 without a gynecologist, 19 without a physiotherapist, which in 17 homes is threatened by the organisation of daily 12-hour health care in the general infirmary, that the fact that there is no professional supervision of the work of concessionaires is not what I'm talking about. The last wave of concerted concessions took place with the consent of the current government, where your predecessor, Minister Bručan, was particularly fond of concessions. I must say that your position is somewhat different and that some of your actions are in the right direction. Nevertheless, the measures, in fact, these recommendations for the award of concessions, I fear that they cannot reverse the trend and improve the situation in health homes. At best, they can only slow down the breakdown of the healthcare system at the primary level in Slovenia. Dear Minister! Most health care homes cannot yet ensure that all the tasks laid down in the law are carried out. The financial sustainability of business is also questioned in many cases because of the concessions granted. As Minister of Health, however, you are obliged to ensure that the Health Act can be fully implemented as it depends on the health care of the people of Slovenia. That's why you're here. Dear Minister, I ask you and ask you to answer me: How will you ensure that healthcare homes will be able to carry out all the statutory tasks in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u137	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador Matjaž Han! When we talk about the primary health network, the primary health network is the one placed in the intervention of municipalities and mayors. I do not want to run away from the responsibilities of the Ministry of Health in this regard. A comprehensive policy of education, education in the direction of medical science is also important. I mentioned earlier in my previous reply that we, like elsewhere, also lack doctors, that we have taken certain measures that we are preparing with new legislation or with complementary legislation of the Medical Service Act, how to obtain more doctors with a license in a short time, and how to also strengthen students' studies or enrolment into colleges. This is what is possible for the future and will partly have to be for the present, because we have to have what we have. For concessions we have written recommendations for both mayors and directors of health homes, while without communication, without the participation of all three, i.e. the third, concessionaire, it is absolutely impossible to work here. It is therefore necessary to establish these commitments, contractual commitments at this time, because we are saving this moment now, which will allow health care homes to be able to meet, together with concessionaires, primarily this part of emergency medical care and that they will be able to carry out their duties. The fact that the concessions have been signed by the mayors is likely to be agreed, and not only in the last two years, but also in previous years concessions have been awarded in some 100 cases; that the health system with concessions also acquires quality, which does not mean that we can go indefinitely with what does not mean that we are actually issuing concessions without seeing the final objective. And in the national programme we will also set some reasonable limits, to where with concessions in environments that are not demographically threatened. In demographically endangered environments, however, the only possibility is to obtain additional personnel and create a friendly environment, some comprehensive infrastructure that may attract young people to come to places where they did not want to. Let me mention that there are some congregations that are very good at solving this, but there are some that are critical, but mostly when we meet with all the health - care directors, there are only a few who did not really know how and where or were looking for different answers. We also have monthly meetings now with health home directors to look together for answers to questions that are even possible. What's impossible is that it's impossible to get so many pediatricians, gynecologists and so on through the night - and we're going to have to solve this within the network by redistribution, as is already the case, 0.25 doctors from one congregation to another. So, the questions are difficult and I believe that only one good synergy, especially in the mayor's triangle, health homes and concessionaires, can save them together. The Ministry doesn't back down, by no means! And also for demographics. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the environment at risk has certain resources planned for each year. [[...]] Of course, something more at this point, except that we're imitating this network, which I don't believe will have very big answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u139	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your answer. I must say, though, the words are encouraging. I asked you in particular because I am also the mayor and I face the problem of public health at home in my congregation, which is a relatively small congregation, and we are on the one hand before the pressure of doctors to want concessions, and on the other hand we know that doctors in such a small environment are not easy. And without a strategy that we're kind of waiting for this entire mandate, healthcare, it's probably not going to work. Your predecessor is by law on concessions - or if this law acted as he imagined, he would have killed the last nail in the coffin and I think that health care at the primary level would somehow destroy it. It seems good to me that you have sat on this seat, that you have some different views, but without a strategy probably won't work in recent years, and will be small congregations, small environments are hard to fight for good health care. But we know that in municipalities such as Radeče, Sevnica, Hrastnik - people have the main problem of good health care and you are here to make a good strategy. But I hope we'll be your mayors, too. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Followed. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u141	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Certainly, we are setting up a strategy, but the environment and infrastructure and everything we have, I have already listed, from these given conditions, we will have to create a common future. We are preparing and presenting a national programme, but apart from setting some key limits and, on the basis of analysis and data, the guidelines, how to proceed, of course, we are all left with a very creative work, and also that the concession is not so bad if the contractual relations are agreed so that the obligations, including those unpleasant ones, are carried on. So that you, as mayor of the law, can decide further that there would be no understanding that there are no concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr Aleš Gulič, I ask you whether, despite the absence of the Minister, you will ask the question of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Public Administration? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u144	I will set up, of course, because I would like to receive an oral response at the next meeting, although some things will be over. In fact, on December 21st our country enters the Schengen area, it is said to release its western, north-east and north-east borders, thus facilitating a significant part of the population's life along the border. On the other hand, a sharper regime is being established for all who live on the southern and eastern borders. This will make life difficult for our citizens and citizens, and all this champagne and rockets will not help them much. All that will be enjoyed at the end of the week may cause sadness elsewhere. My questions are simple and clear. After our country's entry into the Schengen area at the Slovenian-Croatian border, will there really not be any home to which Slovenian citizens should come across Croatian territory? And here I don't mean that 30-mile bypass. I don't want a cynical answer, but I want a normal answer; it's said to be settled. I also wonder: How many prisoners on road communications were placed on the Slovenian-Croatian border and how many other measures were taken, bridge demolition, eyebrows and similar crossings? What are the consequences of these measures on the local population at this time, and what will they have in the future? Third: How will the police cooperate with the local population at the Slovenian-Croatian border when all the provisions of the Schengen acquis are applied? How many police, or how many other police officers, are familiar with some local customs and customs that there will be no police-national disputes? The fourth question was considered an additional question, however, and I will tell him that the esteemed ministers will be able to answer: How do the competent ministries intend to resolve the problems in the village of Mlina and to provide citizens and citizens with access to Mlinov through Slovenian territory? Because there's a little bit more complicated. When and where will the prisoners be put in the mill? Both ministers have all the questions written, all four of them, and I hope you will answer them as you please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u145	Thank you. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor to ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. A few days ago, Madam Minister, I sent you a written question about the reasons for the cancellation of the call for the purchase of equipment at the Neurological Clinic. Because the neurological clinic works under impossible conditions. They are employed, as reported, after looking for more than a year at a new and modern building to move to, they are disappointed and apathetic after learning about your decision. The treatment environment at this clinic is poor and increasingly dangerous. The equipment is old and worn out, they have only three slightly more modern beds, and the donated equipment of the magnetic-resonant tomographer was forced to be packed in the basement despite the long waiting periods. We are again looking at all the misery and criminal inequities in the management of health investments. The building, new, beautiful, marble, stands, a call for equipment, which took place almost two years ago, and you cancelled days ago, Madam Minister. We waited six months for the final decision, it was already on Mr Bručan's table. The consequences are catastrophic, do not affect or affect only the Neurological Clinic, but indirectly other sections of the Clinical Center, cardiology, urgenicity and haematological department. The annulment of the call therefore means a new multi-month wait, and in the absence of planned complications and complaints, it may also take more than a year. As a result of the enormous consequences that your decision has on you, you are obliged to explain to the public more specifically why you have decided to do so. So far, you have offered only inaccurate and flat-rate answers, such as that the tenderers were not in the same position. Even at yesterday's press conference, we didn't get a clear answer. Therefore, it is not the case that there are numerous speculations, unverified rumours and anonymous letters that warn us that the reasons for the annulment may have been different as you mentioned them. You also did not provide clear answers: What was illegal, opaque, and controversial? Was it documentation, alteration of conditions, price offered, work of the invitation to tender, offered leasing costs, maintenance of equipment? Or what some have whispered to us that he was not chosen as the most suitable real bidder? Maybe they're more important now? Aren't patients and employees first? I ask you: Why such a decision, and why are there no clear answers?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u147	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs. Orzmova, for that question. I'm sure I'm the first person I'd want to order, like for the Neurological Clinic, to be able to do it, and that the supply of this equipment would go on smoothly. I am certainly the first because I live every day on the shock of so many and so many new open problems, until I watch on television at a hundred-year-old door and once again so old a toilet at an old neurological clinic, which is also a matter of the taste of those who are directly responsible for the organization of work and the creation of conditions, the man of the decent conditions in which we live. Because sometimes it is said that to whiten something with soup, we do not have to be rich, and we do different things. Public contracts are the ones that I have pointed out at the outset, that they must be critical for one reason: if this ministry is burdened by the highest number of complaints, the revisions to public procurement, then my attention has been even more focused on this also because I have some knowledge of this area, it is easier to see than it seems to someone who has never dealt with it. A commission has been put in place for this commission, which is, as it were, an expert commission, and each minister should sleep peacefully on this in his own way, so it is not the mandate of a minister in particular to deepen his public procurement. And it would be logical that it is prepared so, for the first time, that it will not take two years - which is again a very long time, secondly - and this neurological clinic has not been built since yesterday, we have 10 years of construction or some year less or more. And once again, when I've been in the Ministry for three months, the question is, how are we going to solve everything, and if I don't make up my mind as if, let's just say, it could be that we're going to get the equipment - why have I decided otherwise, but why, what's behind it? It is simply that the procedure, which was first opened in a process in which it was divided into several sets, into 10 sets, equipment - the equipment concerns only four, five chapters: one chapter is furniture, the other chapter is medical equipment, the third is computer equipment, the fourth is video surveillance equipment and one of them is radiological equipment. This was divided into ten sets, and the matter was already rather impractical. Since 300 and some other questions have come from providers who are properly intertwined, I also know none of them, everyone has offered through leasing because it was a leasing call, there have been questions the entire Commission has been dealing with for at least a year and has responded to these answers and supplemented the documentation. All these additions have also resulted in the completion of the first open procedure, where in most of the tenders were invalid - except I think that one or two, I do not know exactly. Then they went into negotiations. And during the negotiation process, they changed the criteria. And the change of criteria is one that is not legally permissible. If I were to sign this order, it means that I've only opened up a subject that could be complained of by so many and so many people affected, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And that would be the result. [[...]] Time would run just as fast as it does today, only maybe it would run more empty than it does today, because we are preparing a concrete repetition of the invitation to tender that will take place in early January. Also, at the clinic where we had an interview, I offered them if they were willing to move, including with old equipment, just to give room to others. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] So far, they say it's impossible. [[....]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Message from the Flowers of Zalokar Orazem, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your answer, Madam Secretary. A few more things are certainly now, according to your answer, clear. Although, I think it is - and I also ask you in a supplementary question: Are you prepared to provide this documentation to the public because you have taken on a great responsibility? You yourself have assessed that the invitation to tender has taken place in such a way as to give rise to complaints or audits, whether or not the audits would have been or would have been justified, only those who are in some way competent may be responsible. So I ask you: Are you ready and will you show this documentation to the public? For the essence is, will the effects really be after a year now - I can say with almost certainty, according to experience, we will still be happy if the process is completed within one year - are you prepared to accept responsibility if there are no special effects? For what surprises me is that the members of the invitation to tender have not been informed of the reasons for your annulment. I think that, given the work they did and the six-month period when they waited for these answers, they were justified to do so in some written form. I'm also surprised that [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We can read in the newspapers that the tenderers did not see so much controversy and that the audit was not likely, since the tenderers should have requested it before the negotiations that had begun. [[...]] However, they did not do this, which indicated that there might be no audit. Your responsibility is great because the question is whether financial effects will be achieved in particular if [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The invitation to tender shall be repeated and, of course, the question whether the damage to one-year waiting is greater than the benefit of the repeated invitation to tender. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an additional answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u152	It's definitely a shame. And it's definitely a responsibility I've accepted, and I'm aware of that responsibility. But I am also aware of the need to follow legal procedures. In the past, there have been many Commissions. If the commissions played the role they had to play, there might be fewer complaints, fewer objections to the decisions of course signed by the Minister. It's impossible to predict the effects. But the first effect is that I want to make the case legally. That it's not about whether someone might complain or not to complain. So the "potential" in these matters cannot go, but we should simply go to putting things in their place and also putting those things in their place, such as whether we are going to do something or not, whether we are or not in other areas showing certain results, things are happening, I am specifically talking about individual investments. [[...]] If this has to be my responsibility, I am willing to base my name on it, because in this situation, which is extremely difficult because of the expectations of all the parties involved, which are enormously large, there is not really much to think about. At least to worry about which supplier he'll deliver. He will supply those who will have the quality to provide the post-sale service and, of course, those who will have the lowest costs of leasing.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem, procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u154	In any event, the greatest damage will ultimately be suffered mainly by patients who will continue to be in these impossible situations. In the last issue of Jane, however, we could also see the indignation of one of the doctors, Dr. Grad, from this neurological clinic, which expressed the resentment and disappointment of doctors who will continue to be forced to work under difficult conditions. I've warned the whole chain of these things, what all this means, too. I agree with you, the responsibility you have taken is great, and the guilt, frankly, is not so great on your part or at this point in time. But I wonder: Will you, and on this I would like to speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, also in the National Assembly, in view of the great harm, also establish levers of responsibility? The day-to-day actions, almost one act every day, I no longer know where to take the time for parliamentary questions and initiatives, what is happening in the field of investment in health, crime and the mafia. I'd be very happy if you could clean these things up. However, according to my assessment, you will run into many lobbyes, including within the option proposed by you in this place, and of course I hope that you will succeed in this desire. Of course, it will be the most beautiful reflection if we have enough information on what has happened in this order already today, so that we can compare what will happen in the end. The rumors I was talking about at the beginning of the question are very loud. We have a lot of letters to remind us of that. I've also set this up today to let you know that we're going to have to look at this matter under everyone else's fingertips. The money that is lost at the expense of the patients is simply too much in Slovenia, and these things simply need to be cut off and done. In doing so, you will have our full support if these purposes are to be truly honest and in place. I propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that we hold a debate, not just on this investment, but on investments in health care as a whole, because what is happening in this area is that people are extremely fleeing, angry, people can't understand that no more investment is going on normally, not a pediatric clinic, not an oncological institute, not a neurological clinic. The ER will obviously not run normally, because the money has been taken from the budget. That is why I think that this is something that needs to be discussed here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Dušan Kumer will raise the question of a Member of Parliament to the Minister of Economy, who is not present. In spite of that, will you pause and request an answer at the next meeting or in writing? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Yeah, I'm gonna pawn my lips and ask for an oral response at the next session.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u157	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u158	I have tried to ask the minister a question given that he has recently been regarded as one of the specialists or experts in the search for the cause of inflation, and he is also the one who repeatedly burns with his finger, so I remind him of another inflictor with this question. Even before the electricity market finally opened in July this year, I asked the Minister the question of the projected electricity supply. The Minister replied to me, quote: "Energy prices for households do not deviate significantly from the average in the European Union, and there is no reason why, despite the establishment of market relations, this price will rise to a great deal. That's a fact." End of quote. Also, in July, as some have predicted, no energy Hofer or Lidl would offer half - free television or washing machine to households if they bought electricity from it. It was therefore also a utopian expectation that the opening of the market and the arrival of competition could also be valued by electricity, which some government spokesmen packed in a notebook about higher quality of electricity. I also know that the Government is no longer a direct regulator of the electricity price for tariff customers. However, I also know that all distribution companies are private in nature, legal entities in which the state reads the Government, the majority owner. Therefore, it is not entirely held that the State, as the majority owner, cannot influence the final price of electricity. Therefore, the Minister asks you: Has the Government, as the largest owner of the company, assessed the eligibility of the auctioned in terms of the cost structure of the operation of the Electro Economy, which is majority owned by the State? Has the Competition Authority acted since all distributors have announced the same percentage of irritation? What are the results of this analysis? What is the Government's strategy and with what measures will the Government be able to influence the final pricing of electricity for households? And finally, as I said at the beginning, because you are a specialist in the search for causes of inflation: how much will the well-being of the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia be reduced, in addition to all other incentives in recent months, also due to this promotion of electricity?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Meanwhile, the Minister of Economy has joined us. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u160	Dear Member, Vice President! Unfortunately, Slovenia cannot escape the situation in the regional, European and, for example, the global energy market. If we compare wholesale electricity prices over the last five years, this is the right electricity prices from producers that can be purchased and then supplied by the economy and households at the end of the distribution period, we can find that these prices have increased by a factor of three to four times in the last five years, from around €22 per megawatt hour in 2002 to about €70 per megawatt hour in this year. It is impossible that distribution companies would only be rationalised, with greater efficiency, to cover such a high price rise at the entrance and not partially spill it into the final price. Therefore, in some ways, when I accompany these trends as ministers, I find that these are some logical consequences of these developments in energy markets. At the same time, I am aware of the importance of maintaining our sense of social state and of our sense of social responsibility. That is why I have also publicly called on businesses to do so and also suggested that they take into account the differences between consumers in the forecast, that the incentives should not be felt substantially by those who spend the least, and that the incentives may also be a measure to reduce consumption or to increase efficiency in order to hit the most consumers who also spend the most. For some people today are heating up with electricity, which, compared to other energy providers, can be even more cost-effective, but if we know that a fossil energy is used to produce electricity, which is also lost in conversion and transfer, this is very irrational and should also be considered so that such a measure can also increase efficiency. The government or the state cannot take over or interfere with the business policy and assume the tasks and responsibilities of corporate bodies such as management and supervisory councils. These are their decisions, which they also stand for with their personal responsibility. And even if someone wanted to influence their decisions by means of a political dictatorship, they could not be bound by this dictatorship by personal responsibility for illegal or even illegal decisions. The electricity market is fully relaxed in Slovenia. The government doesn't have any regulatory options. Moreover, private owners are also in distribution companies. And private owners warn, and not only warn, they are already filing specific compensation actions, why the price of electricity does not rise even further. I am sure that the search for solutions in, for the first time, is a differentiation in the price that those who spend less, therefore, do not know the impressions, and the solution is also that as little as possible the impressions happen. I would also point out that all five distribution companies supply electricity to the same supplier and it is not surprising that they are all under the same conditions of operation. The Competition Authority has also initiated a procedure to determine the possibility of cartel negotiations in this case, and I believe that it will be made available as quickly as possible to the public and distribution companies. I look forward to the responsible conduct and effective action of the supervisory institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Comrade Kumer, supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u162	Thank you for your word and also thank you for your answer. The Honourable Minister. I respect and am inclined to do so also when you say, if not practical, but at least verbally, this social sense and I also know, because I asked you mainly about electricity for households, that in European countries, including the countries of the European Union, this subsidisation of this part of electricity distribution is part of social policies in countries. That's why I asked you because the state owns and I think ownership still has some influence, a corrective effect, we can't just put everything on the personal responsibility of those sitting in the supervisory councils and so on, of these companies. But the state as owner has some responsibility, and it also has some influence on the design of these final prices. Otherwise, I would have served you with one answer that you gave me six months ago when you said that electricity companies do not exploit the monopoly position on the market and that their profitability is slightly lower than successful market companies - when the state is the majority owner, part of the profits is transferred to the budget and used for the general good. And my question is, the question is, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] How much of this profit do you expect this year? [[...]] Is it not possible to transfer this profit to subsidisation, once again, the electricity prices of households? And another, which I think has a legal basis. All distribution companies should inform all customers for a month in order to stimulate electricity so that we can decide whether or not to change [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the supplier. [[...]] But I don't think that's what the companies have done so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u164	Of course, they did, since it was this very notice of intentional innuendo that raised so much dust. The electricity prices haven't risen yet. It's not like there's been a promotion yet. It has been announced that it will happen in accordance with the energy law. And energy companies respected this law, announced a price hike. And the price hike hasn't happened yet. So they respected that thing. And the second is this social sense. We must also have some real measure of relation to electricity as to some energy and some good. If we start excessive subsidisation here and cause electricity to be uncompetitive or cheaper compared to other energy consumers, then we will cause it to be used irrationally to the detriment of the use of other energy products. For example, then it will happen that people will start to heat on electricity, not on fuel oil anymore. Why? Because "like" electricity is going to be subsidized, the fuel oil or the gas is not going to be subsidized. And it is therefore necessary to have this subsidy part, if we think about it, divided among all the energy providers that can represent an alternative to use. Otherwise, we've done more harm than good. My proposal, which I made to distributors at several meetings, went this way to encourage electricity at least or nothing for those who consume the least and are the most vulnerable categories. And even in the structure of consumers, these are relatively few. Incentives from 6 to 7% in the largest would weigh zero irritation or no change in price in the most vulnerable. And that's what I suggested to them, and that's what I think the right measure is at a given time. I hope that with my authority I will also convince these so-called state supervisors, as you say, that they will also step in with this proposal and in some way implement it through the price policy of distribution companies. And there's one more thing. It is also important to realize that the reflection also reflects the increase in the network. The network is a compensation for the use and maintenance of networks. You know that materials, even copper and all of it, have been encouraged by global trends, that new investments are due to the expansion of households and the economy, and this has also increased the new investments of distribution companies as they invest in new updates. This is also a fraction of the final proposed imitations.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Trtt will raise the question of the absent Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u166	Thank you. Let me start by saying that I expect an oral response at the next meeting. When the first wave of encouragement followed us and when the increased inflation had already shown its teeth, especially in the poorest, I addressed the Minister with an initiative to radically valorise social transfers and an initiative to amend the Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers to Individuals and Households. In September, I asked the President of the Government how the government would curb inflation and what measures would mitigate the impact of inflation on at least the most vulnerable groups of people. However, on the day of the fight against poverty on 17 October, I addressed to the Government a written question on the envisaged measures to mitigate the impact of the auctions. Answers either avoided recognition of the serious problem, avoiding the government's responsibilities, the initiative to radically valorise social transfers was rejected, although the law did not allow it, while the initiative to amend the Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers was rejected. Thus there are no answers, the government is avoiding responsibility, and poverty is also perceived as a serious problem in the reports of the Ombudsman, in NGOs and, lastly, in schools and schools where this can already hamper children's good integration and the consequences of social exclusion already appear. Indirectly, the government acknowledged the problem when it provided me with information in its reply that Slovenia, with its entry into the European Union, had also shown an opportunity to obtain around €1.5 million of food from intervention stocks shared by Karitas and the Red Cross to those in need. So this is all that could be obtained from the answers. That's why I'm calling again the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. [[End warning sign]] and I ask her, in view of the statement made by Prime Minister Janez Janša on the Turnover on national television on 3 December this year, that poverty has been reduced by 15% in this mandate. So I wonder: By what criteria did the Government determine this by what methodology? [[...]] [[End warning sign]] ? And I expect, as I say, a written answer. The statistical office published the latest data in 2004 and on 17 December [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Your expectations for answers will come true. Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš also refers to her question to the absent Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u168	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that it is a little awkward or awkward to ask a question to someone who is not in this Chamber, despite the fact that we have addressed it, I think it is very correct for the President of the National Assembly to get an answer from the Government in due time, which of the ministers will attend the meeting. Nevertheless, allow me to ask a question, and I expect the Minister to give me an oral answer at the next meeting. My question is identical or largely related to the question raised by my colleague Potrate. This is an indisputable fact, the Social Protection Act, which was adopted two years ago, and, finally, the House Transfer Coordination Act and individuals have been severely affected by those who are most affected or most vulnerable. The fact is that only after this last law is paid out or coordinated by a large number, I think there are more than 30 different types of transfers. And since this law actually predicted that social transfers would be coordinated once a year backwards, with high inflation, people who depend solely on transfers, whether they will be a protective allowance, whether they will be a child allowance, whether they will be a scholarship, let them be the last payment for lost income in the case of the Institute a family assistant. In short, these people are only severely affected this year. That's what the numbers tell us. I will focus solely on family helpers, because I have fresh information before me that the number of family helpers should be substantially reduced from 1,400 to 700 because of the above-mentioned laws. The fact that we also speak today is that children already feel poverty in our country, including because of the law on the coordination of transfers to households and individuals. I would like to stress and regret that at this meeting, the government coalition did not allow a general debate on the law proposed by the DeSUS Group. This law provided that the Act on the Coordination of Transfers submitted by the Government last year, which caused new poverty among people, would be repealed. But the government coalition or government did not gather so much courage that, if you want to, under the pretext of social sustainability, you would choose a general debate. That's why I'm asking the Minister: What the Ministry will do to people who are affected [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Minister Podobnik also joined us at this time. Mr. likenik, your Members are less than mine. My colleague, Lucky Friend, will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, hello! You're the only one here defending the government's position, it seems like you're talking to an empty hall. My question goes to you as ecological bombs in this context. The clean environment is a key asset and the right to a healthy environment is one of the fundamental constitutional rights. But it's just a beautifully written word. It's not like that. We adopted Natura 2000 in mid-2004 and in this mandate. See, on 17.9.2007, you annulled the ARSO decision and previously also took into account the Supreme Court or the decision rejecting the audit and gave a civil initiative the possibility that the party was in the process and complained that a state-owned company had purchased land for the construction of wind power plants within Nature 2000. I'm asking you: Why do you allow this as an environmental minister? Why do you allow me to discuss gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets? What are the arrangements with Mr Popovic for the removal of the Kemiplast factory in Cyprus? In the light of the decision taken, this should already happen. Why don't you insist on more perseverance? And, Mr. Secretary, you are the guardian of clean environment and environmental policy. That's what we trusted you with. Tell me: Why do we have only 11 gas leaks in the Republic of Slovenia for cars if Italy actually has them, if I read from this article, about 12,000? Why don't you worry that in fact, at least those who care about the clean environment will be able to influence that there are fewer exhaust gases. I own a car that's so equipped, I paid dearly for this equipment and I can't use it. Do you not find that, in fact, the Ombudsman also gives you sufficient eloquent warning about environmental rights that are fundamental human rights? You have not responded to what is said in this report. See how long the thorny path of someone who tried to ensure that the party would be in the process in the appeal proceedings. You didn't take that into consideration. Will you cancel the decisions of Elektro Primorska, which says that the state company has the right to intervene in Natura 2000, buy wind power plants and provide foreign investment and profitability? Will you stop that, Your Honor Minister? This is the basis of my question today. Of course for [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I asked you about the gas terminals. [[..]] I hope you wrote it down. The question is enough, and I'll be in touch later.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please respond. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Member Friend! I hope to successfully defend the colours of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as you said. First of all with regard to gas leaks in the Republic of Slovenia. I'll pass on your initiative to the competent minister. I am the first to support that those who also have business interest and competence would significantly increase the number of gas leaks in the Republic of Slovenia. Otherwise, you've opened up quite a few questions. Some are related to the procedure for wind power plants on Volov’s ribs, others are linked to the operation or closure of the Kemiplast factory and the third part is linked to the construction of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets. I'd go straight for it. Regarding procedures for wind power plants in the Republic of Slovenia or near Ilirska Bistrica. I would be very happy if Slovenia were one of those countries of the European Union that would have at least a few megawatts of installed power that would be drawn from wind potentials. I inherited an unfortunate procedure that I did not start, not as an investor, not as a congregation. And I wanted to do everything I could to have wind power plants there. As is known, ARSO has issued an environmental permit or consent. This is final, but an administrative dispute has been triggered, which I have no influence on. This environmental consensus is difficult more than 40 pages issued by ARSO, taking into account some experiences from some other countries. I must say that, on the basis of the final decision of the second stage to grant the Birdwatching Society the status of the party in the procedure, the ARSO has issued a decision on the renewal of the procedure. However, this decision is not final either, because Elektro Primorska complained about this decision. But you have to be so understanding and you have to admit that if a judge orders our ministry, our second stage, to recognize a party's status in the proceedings, then the decision of the courts has to be respected. For what the court decides, the Minister is not responsible, but is obliged to respect their decisions. And we did it. There is also an administrative dispute on the decision of our second stage to grant DOBS the status of the party in the proceeding. All the decisions that have been made are in such or other court-martials. What else can I do as Minister? I'm asking you. My wish is to meet investors, and maybe find some more happy location for wind power plants and maybe have more luck with the destination from the start. In Slovenia, there are also some beds where there are good wind potentials. There could be wind power plants there. Maybe near the ones where the current ones were proposed. But as it is said, all procedures have been stopped in such or other court-martials. As far as Kemiplast is concerned, the Environmental Agency is also in the process of issuing an environmental permit. This process shall be led by the Environment Agency. I'm sure she'll do it right. However, as far as the closure or prohibition of the operation of the Kemiplast factory is concerned, I can only say that the special expert group I set up had two tasks. In 2006, she successfully sought money to finance the resettlement, and she also prepared an elaborate. The company was given the opportunity to receive EUR 9 million of credit with a 10-year repayment deadline and a three-year moratorium. The company produced an elaboratory on resettlement and restructuring. It also produced a draft text of the agreement, which is crucial, between the company, the Municipality of Koper, the country and our ministry. In principle, the company accepted this loan and also announced that it could carry out the relocation of the factory to Hungary within two years of the signing of the agreement. But yes [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the agreement was conditional on a prior modification of the destination of their land in the field of governance of BV1. [[...]] This is the area where Kemiplast has already abandoned chemical production in the past and for which the process of modifying spatial acts has already been initiated. Here is the jurisdiction of the Municipality of Koper. At the last meeting of this section, the Municipality of Koper submitted its proposal for an agreement to which the rest of the parties are expected [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] they made comments. [[...]] As I have information, there has now been a legal dispute or communication in the legal field between the Municipality of Koper and the owner of this factory. But I'm running out of time to answer your question about [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u173	Minister, thank you very much for once. My friend Lucky Friend has a supplementary question. But you also received one of the questions addressed to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u174	Yeah. I'm honored to be asked what needs to be done. Look, Minister, I can say that I personally appreciate you, but every day we hear that pollution in Slovenia is a major problem. But don't do anything. In particular, I asked you: Why are there so few filling places for cars, why is the largest gas consumption in Slovenia compared to other European countries. You didn't answer that? And that could happen tomorrow, so we can do something about it tomorrow. You don't have to wait till after tomorrow. You asked me what you would do about the wind power plants. However, for God's sake, the state-owned company bought land inside Nature 2000. The ombudswoman writes nicely to you: In Slovenia, in fact, we established the rules on Natura 2000. Soon thereafter, the administrative procedure, the authorisation, the environmental permit for the Volova rib power plant took place. Something stinks in here. We cannot protect the territory as territorially untouchable, and then allow a state-owned company to buy land for wind power plants. But here you are, you co-ordinators, you, reverend minister! The second thing I'd like to say is, you didn't answer me: the Popovic-Subsidy deal. That's what I'm interested in. What did you find in Cyprus? Tell me that. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Tell the entire Slovenian public what two competent people have agreed to close. [[...]] It must be closed tomorrow, right now, because it pollutes the environment and endangers the living population there. Regarding gas terminals in the Gulf of Tržaška - Slovenia has adopted some miserable, principled protocol that does not say anything. The State Council has made it clear that we are near another [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the referendum. [[...]] Will you take a chance and give this money for a referendum that will also burden you? I will support this decision by coastal citizens and citizens and [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u176	First of all, with regard to the last part of the additional issue relating to the construction of gas terminals. The Ministry of Environment and Space fully insists on the position endorsed by the Government at its two meetings, which found that the gas terminal projects in the Gulf of Markets have a proven cross-border impact due to the significant impact from a transport safety point of view, environmental impact and environmental impact on the safety risks of the Slovenian coast and also significant impacts on the water environment of the Gulf of Markets, and therefore the Government does not support this project for these reasons. Here our position is the same as it was. The Council of State had a special consultation and explicitly supported the activities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of the Environment and Space, which, within the framework of the mixed Slovenian-Italian-Croatian Commission for the Protection of the Sea and Coastal Areas from Pollution, is working to identify the entire area of the North Adriatic for an ecologically sensitive and protected area. This support of the State Council is particularly at my heart because Slovenia has successfully led the Barcelona Convention for two years. Next month, I'll hand the lead over to Spain. It is also under my guidance that we have achieved under this Convention that the northern Adriatic is declared an ecologically sensitive protected area. As far as your question of the Popovic-Subsidy agreement is concerned. There's no such deal because there can't be. Within the framework of a special section involving the Municipality of Koper, which is located near Kemiplas, the owners of the factory and our ministry, are looking for the solutions that I spoke about earlier. Surprisingly, the Municipality of Koper entered this communication unannounced by judicial proceedings with the owner of Kemiplas. This matter has not been coordinated or coordinated with us, nor has it been informed. We've been informed about this from the media. That's all I can tell you. Today, the meeting of this expert group in the decans or in Cyprus is again, and I hope that we will be informed publicly about these results. Our initiative, we have received a very convenient credit arrangement to move the factory to Hungary, is still in the process. The owner shall immediately receive favourable credit to move. One condition is that the Municipality of Koper makes some changes related to the status of the land. As far as pollution is concerned, maybe information. In 2007, under the new European directive, all diesel cars must have modern catalysts, new catalysts. Old diesel cars are known to produce hard PM-10 particles about 20 times more than petrol cars. This is one of the reasons why, even with increased freight traffic in Slovenia, some areas in Slovenia are heavily burdened by PM-10 particles. Slovenia will also report on these issues to the European Union and also take certain measures. One of the key measures is the greater role of public transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u177	Thank you very much. My friend Lucky Friend, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to request an extended debate to be put to the vote. Look, Primorska is an environmental bomb. I am also a Member of those who have not elected me and have also instructed me to trigger this here, that I am very harsh in these respects, because the right to live in a clean environment is constitutional right. You are also reminded of this by the guardian. And, Minister, I would ask you to use all your competences, because, look, the government is playing with the name of Primorska, you're playing with ecology, we're the last to get highways, we'll be the last to update the railways. I could still tell you what's going on. There's patience the least of you who rule, to all the ministers, I don't mean you personally. And I would ask if we could agree to bring these questions to this temple to open them. It is not only Primorska who is so exposed, we have spoken before, but also in other parts, of course Primorske as well as in Gorenjska and Zasavje, there is an electricity plant and so on. We could list, we can walk all over Slovenia. By taking advantage of this opportunity to talk about adopting quality protection programs also to those who play with the fate of many who need to live in such an environment. But as for gas terminals, I think you were the least convincing. Slovenia has the opportunity to prevent this in fact and has not taken advantage of it. Some declarations are once again at the level of the foreign ministry, which are polite phrases, and Italy will make it its own. We will have another referendum, as we say, which will cost citizens and citizens as much as it will cost, I believe that more than the last, because these costs go up, not down. And again, no one will be responsible for that. None of the ministers or ministers want to bear the consequences. Nobody. You are all playing with the fate of budgetary policy, when millions are being spent, you are hiding under Mr Janša's wing and the matter is covered. It is also your personal responsibility to do as you swore. And in this case, it's more than obvious that you're not working. Excuse me, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. We are moving on to the second round of questions sent. Dr. Mitja Slavinec, you're supposed to ask the Minister of Defence a question. Let me surprise you. You won't get the answer, but here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that. I hope I get an answer, but with the delay of the next session. However, I would certainly like to ask the Minister, in the absence of a Member of Parliament, a question already now. There is no secret that the Slovenian Army has great difficulty in obtaining personnel, that it lacks soldiers, officers, officers. The numbers, if I may say so, are currently in the permanent composition of more than 7,100 members and should be 750 according to plan. Nor do the programme, the objectives set by the Ministry for 2008 and 2009, provide for the achievement of that number, the extent envisaged by the resolution, i.e. the basic act. On the other hand, the Ministry has already accepted that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces will still be less equipped in accordance with the resolution, in accordance with their basic act, so and to such an extent as to achieve the objectives set. But the fact is, there's probably going to be over a thousand members of the army. So we don't need so much equipment, that's the first conclusion. Today, the minister also told the media that he himself wanted to buy as little equipment as possible, but this is the commitment of Slovenia to which she decided to join Nate, and the purchase of 8x8 armored weapons was approved by the National Assembly at its conclusion in 2004. I suppose the Minister made a mistake, because the only thing that the National Assembly has adopted is a resolution. And if the Ministry of Resolution can fail to comply with the number of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, I do not know what obliges it, but it must meet such blindly when equipping. In this regard, a reorganisation is envisaged, which was also presented by the Minister at the recent press conference. It is the reorganisation of the administrative part of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia with the aim of achieving rationalisation and greater efficiency of the system, in particular by establishing a new reorganisation organisation for the performance of the human resources function. I wonder: Does this also result in a reduction in the number of defence administrations and their expositions? If so, why and what? I would also like to know whether this reorganisation is also linked to the failure of personnel for the Slovenian Army, which would be the responsibility of the right administrations, their exposures, thereby diverting responsibility and attention from the failed policy of acquiring and retaining personnel in the Slovenian Army, and [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Comrade Slavinec. Would you like a written or oral answer? An oral response. At the next regular session, let us hope that the Minister of Defence will be present. I would also like to interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, on Wednesday by deciding on the proposals for conclusions. This also interrupts the 34th meeting of the National Assembly and sends a nice greeting by 9:00 a.m. tomorrow.
