ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Nice greeting at the beginning of the new week. I hope the weekend was happy and relaxed. We begin the 30th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the first paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Alojz Sok, Marjetka Uhan, Maria Possonec, Marko Pavliha and Mrs Mag. Maja Potrat, from 4:30 p.m. on. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all the agenda items, and I welcome them very much. We are moving on to the agenda of the 30th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 16 November 2007. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda, so we are moving on to setting the agenda. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. I therefore propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as referred to. We're voting. We're not concluding. We'll wait a minute. I ask Members and Members to join us from the lobby in order to ensure a quorum and to begin the consideration of the budget. May I have your attention, and we'll vote next time. The vote on the agenda of the budget session is under way. For the second time, we're inconclusive, so I'm adjourning the session, and we'll continue at 9.15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Please take your seats. We are moving on to the third vote on the agenda. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 53 to 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda has been adopted. Mr. Squeakle, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u3	We have adopted the agenda, where the 1st item of the agenda is also the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. At the table we received a review of the amendments to the amendment. Further explanation of the applicant and presentation of the report of the parent working body are expected to follow. The President is asking you: Are business conditions established because of the reports of the home working body Members, we do not yet have a Member, or will you explain to us how this report will be presented? I understand that the Chairman of the Committee is supposed to present the report, but there was no report at the Lotus Note table until 9 a.m. or before this vote. So if I can get an answer to that question, because the point can't start if there's no report. But we know the meeting was closed on Saturday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u4	Thank you. I have ordered that it be checked how the report is distributed and, certainly, before hearing the report or before presenting the report, I will suspend the meeting if the report is not yet distributed to Members and Members. And now we're moving on to 1. AND 2. POINT OF THE DAY AND SECER - TO THE COMMON INTRODUCTION OF THE DRAFT AMENDMENT OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2008 AND THE SUPPLEMENTAL PROPOSAL OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2009. The proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and the updated proposal for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009 was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bajuk for further explanation of the proposals of the two acts. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That's a good-bye to everyone. We have before us a review of the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and a review of the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009. Before I go to the presentation of individual documents, allow me to briefly present the public-financial situation in Slovenia. The year 2007 is successful for Slovenia and, given the public-financial situation, is also crucial. This year we have successfully implemented the introduction of the euro and the expectations of the Government regarding the impact and consequences of the economic and social reforms that have taken place in the context of economic and social stability have proved to be high. Today the positive effects of the reform programme on economic growth and the overall development of Slovenia are visible. Both tax and other reforms, including the withdrawal of the country from the economy and the amendment of labour law. Slovenia has met all the required Maastricht criteria and has achieved high economic growth in 2006, which is continuing or even increasing this year. From the very beginning, the Government has been leading a restrictive fiscal policy, which operates unequivocally countercyclically at least in 2007. The share of public-financial expenditure in GDP is reduced by 1.7 percentage points this year alone. Total since this government's performance of almost 3 percentage points, which is the largest reduction in public consumption in the history of Slovenia. Real government spending growth is down by 1.8 percentage points this year, and the public financial deficit has been halved from 1.2% of GDP to 0.6% of structural deficits, and is declining by 0.6% of GDP. These public financial movements clearly indicate that Slovenia will reach and exceed the medium-term objective set out in the Brussels Ecofin conclusions in April this year in accordance with the Stability and Growth Pact, a reduction of the structural deficit to 1 percentage point of GDP two years earlier than planned. The government will continue to respect the Stability and Growth Pact and to follow the principle of sound management with limited resources to the fullest extent possible. This fiscal policy, however, significantly reduces the country's sector spending on GDP and reduces inflation pressures. Your Honor! Before presenting the changes to the 2008 state budget and the 2009 budget, allow me to talk about the implementation of the country's so-called global balance sheet by ESA 95. This means not only the State budget, but also the balance sheet of pensions and health bills, the budgets of municipalities and all public institutions, public funds and agencies, and the Slovenian Compensation Society and the Capital Society, which, according to the ESA 95 methodology, form the whole state sector. As I mentioned last estimates of fiscal aggregates show that the expected revenues of the whole country sector in 2007 will be around 43% of GDP, or 3% lower, than at that time in December 2004, when the government took place. In 2006, this share was 44.1% of GDP, estimated to be 43.6% of the country's expenditure in 2007. However, in 2006 the share was 45.3% of GDP. The country's deficit in 2007 will therefore be only 0.57% of GDP, according to current estimates. The growth stability programme presented by each country annually to the European Commission and to the European Central Bank for 2007 foreseen a deficit of 1.6% of GDP. I would also like to mention that this reduction in public spending is of strategic importance and is an important achievement of government fiscal policy. In particular, when we compare all of this with comparable data from 200 onward. In 2000, the total national expenditure under ESA95 amounted to 47.4% of GDP, and in 2001 it was 48.2, and in 2002 and 2003 47.1%, and in 2004 it was 46.5. Since its launch in December 2004, the government has reduced the expenditure of the state sector by as much as 3% of the GDP point measured according to the ESA95 methodology, which is 50% higher, and one year earlier than it is expected to achieve in accordance with the Coalition Treaty for the entire period of the 4-year mandate. Taking into account the draft amending budget for 2008 and the draft budget for 2009, the share of the country's expenditure will be reduced by more than 4% of the GDP. However, it is important that the Government reduces the deficit at the same time as it reduces its expenditure and revenue, as the whole country's expenditure is lowering faster than its revenue. As I have already mentioned, it is estimated that the country-wide deficit will be 0.57% of GDP this year, the lowest since 2000, from which such data exist in Slovenia at all. In 2000, this deficit amounted to 3.8% of GDP and increased to 4% in 2001 and 2.5 and 2.7% of GDP in 2004. I am talking about the entire deficit in the state sector. In the first year of this government, the country's deficit fell from 2.3 to 1.5 and in 2006 to 1.2%. This year, well, as I mentioned earlier, it should be only; and I'm sure it will be; no more than 0.57%. This is an important achievement, especially if we know at the same time that we have reduced the tax burden on the population as well as the economy, which I will talk about further. Before that, a few words about inflationary movements in Slovenia. We are well aware of the important role of inflationary expectations in creating a level of inflation, and thus the consequences of misdiagnosis of its causes, either because of the wrong technical analysis or for political reasons. In this regard, it is important to re-emphasize the specific nature of the current inflation caused by supply shocks rather than by demand. I must make it very clear: the main factors of inflation in Slovenia are the external shocks of two types, namely the rise in oil prices and the rise in food prices in international markets. In the absence of external shocks, inflation in Slovenia would be at the level of last year's inflation. In 2007 both offers of shock came to the fore because of the specific situation in the Slovenian economy. In the second half of April and in May, we first received a special increase in prices for seasonal products which were not on the market at the time of the transition to the euro. However, the second round of food price increases took place following the expiry of the price commitments of traders, which in this way compensated international food price increases in the first half of 2007 and exceeded them. In doing so, I would like to reiterate that fiscal policy has maintained its restrictive nature. It is also worth stressing the appropriateness of a government policy that maintains strict control of all regulated prices and maintains anticyclical public financial orientation, as demonstrated by a strong reduction in government expenditure, such as the share of GDP and their expected contribution to gross domestic product growth in 2007, which is significantly lower than in 2006, and will be maintained by the Government at such a level. The effects of both offers of shocks are temporary and will gradually cease in the first half of next year. This is also reflected in inflation forecasts and other macroeconomic variables for next year. By no means should we allow the so-called internalisation of external shocks and their transfer to costs. Such behaviour would be irresponsible and would inspire inflationary expectations. The government pays particular attention to inflation expectations in the movement of inflation and their impact on wages. In line with the agreement of the social partners, wage movements in recent years indicate that they alone are lagging behind in productivity growth, which has played a crucial role in creating macroeconomic stability. We expect that moderation will prevail in the future, and that the social partners will find a consensus that is in line with urgent macroeconomic stability. Temporary supply shocks should not be the only basis for determining wage movements. In particular, I would like to point out that the increase in exports of 17.1% by the end of the third quarter of 2007, in view of the same period last year, does not show the so-called obvious signs of a decrease in the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, as some would like to point out wrongly. In this area, the government will continue to take measures that will have an impact on price easing, such as measures to increase competition, to increase consumer information, to prevent possible cartel arrangements, to strictly control prices that have been regulated or maintained in accordance with European directives. As you are aware, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development announced 5.8% of economic growth this year in 2007 and a gradual easing to 4.6% in 2008 and 4.1% in 2009. Which is an external environment in which risks of possible additional calming are increased rather conservative. Similar forecasts are made by the European Commission and also by the Bank of Slovenia. Economic growth in Slovenia in 2007 is based on investments and exports and is expected to slow down slightly over the next two years, as I have already mentioned. In doing so, national consumption will be relatively low, which means that public spending as a proportion of GDP will continue to decline. Ladies and gentlemen, as already announced, allow me to explain in a little more detail the effects of the tax reform. By introducing tax reform, the government reduced taxes on citizens and citizens as well as burdened businesses or economies. The effects of the tax reform are showing and will continue to be gradually showing by 2010 and represent a relative decrease in the revenue of the Republic of Slovenia's budget. The share of tax revenue in the consolidated balance sheet is decreasing. In 2006 it counted 38.6% of GDP, and this year it is estimated to be 38.1% and in 2008 37.3% and in 2009 it is estimated to be 36.8%. This represents a reduction of 1.85% of GDP in the period 2006-2009. With changes in income in 2005 and 2006, the Government introduced a number of changes. In 2007, there was a reduction in the over-progress in the taxation of active income, which means that the number of tax classes decreased from 5 to 3. The first-class income rate remained unchanged, that's 16%. In the other two classes, they decreased to 27% and to 41% in the highest grade. There has been a significant increase in general relief and for so-called passive incomes, i.e. interest, capital gains and dividends has been introduced by Cedular Taxation, which has prevented additional capital movements to other countries. The gradual abolition of the pay tax proposed by the Government in 2005 also contributes to further decommissioning and increasing the competitiveness of the economy. Thus, this tax fell by 20% in 2006 and by an additional 20% in 2007. In accordance with the adopted plan for phasing out this tax, it will be reduced by an additional 30% in 2008 with the beginning of 2009 and completely abolished. Thus, in 2006 the rates of this tax ranged from 3% to 11.8% depending on the amount of the monthly gross salary paid to the employee. In 2007, tax rates range from 2.3% to 8.9%. In 2008, these rates will be 1.1% to 4.4%. As of 1.1.2009, the tax on paid salaries will be completely abolished, which will mean a direct fiscal burden for companies totalling EUR 471.5 million per year on the basis of data from last year. The effects of reduced rates of income and increased general relief mean for all taxpayers a higher real value of their income and thus a higher standard of living than they would have had if these taxes had not been reduced. With amendments to the Income Act, in particular the higher overall relief and the reduced progression of the income scale, the average real net salary increased by 6.5% from 2004 to 2007. On average, income decreased by 26.8% compared to 2004. Let me stress that the effects of this legislation have also been felt by the recipients of minimum wages. From this point of view, the real regularity of the minimum wage increased by 5.2% in income by 39.2%. Let me also mention that in cases of higher incomes, for example, 5 average wages, their income has been reduced by 12.4% real value of these revenues by 8.1. However, the government's measures are not merely aimed at changing tax rates, but are also seeking to increase the administrative efficiency of the tax administration. This year we introduced part of the pre-fulfilled income forecast, and in 2008 Slovenian taxpayers will receive a complete tax return. With tax reform, the government has also burdened legal persons. By 2009, the company's income tax will be reduced by up to 30% and from 1.3% to 1% of GDP. Changes in corporate income taxation have provided conditions for increasing competitiveness and economic growth. The overall rate of tax fell from 25% to 23% and will gradually decrease by 2010 when 20%. Thus, in the field of corporate income taxation in 2007, a number of new or amended solutions that provide a transparent and stable tax environment, ensure the elimination of economic and legal double taxation of incomes, ensure the legal security of taxpayers, thereby establishing the fundamental conditions for investing new capital and direct investment in the national economy, reduces the interest in disposing of domestic capital from a country that has low capital taxation and does not provide such fiscal transparency. Last week, the government adopted a new regulation which will allow for an additional regional tax relief for research and development of 10% and 20% of the invested funds, in addition to the 20% already in force. The amount of regional tax relief will depend on the gross domestic product per capita in the individual statistical region, depending on the national average. The tax administration's data show that 548 taxpayers benefited from R & D in 2006, totalling EUR 59.7 million. This is 24 times more than in 2005, when 22 taxpayers benefited from this relief in total of EUR 2.5 million. Thus, by introducing that relief in 2006, the government has waived the corporate income tax of almost EUR 15 million, and we expect that the number of taxpayers applying this relief will be significantly higher this year, even as a result of the introduction of an additional regional relief. Dear Members and Members! I have already presented the macroeconomic situation in Slovenia in the move of the 2008 and 2009 budget memorandum and have presented the news, the changes we are introducing in the next financial years. With regard to the proposed budgets for 2008, the changes for 2008 and the new budget for 2009, I can say that this is a substantive continuation of a prudent and targeted fiscal policy and a step forward towards the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy and the Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Slovenia and consequently towards greater prosperity for citizens and citizens. In addition to these documents, the Government has also followed its commitments under the Coalition Treaty to increase economic growth and greater prosperity for all citizens and citizens in the preparation of budgets for 2008 and 2009. Both the 2008 changes in the state budget and the 2009 draft budget have been formulated by the government in a period of favourable macroeconomic environment and through policies that ensure macroeconomic stability and have taken very seriously the possibilities of further calming the global economy, as well as in Europe in particular. Allow me to explain the composition and priority of the 2008 state budget, but I will point out this and this is very important, and this will certainly happen today in the debate on the day that the state budget represents only 58% of the total public expenditure I have already talked about. This is therefore only part of the consumption of the state sector. An important part, but only part. The deficit of the state budget, which is a key part of the overall public-financial balance, will also fall by one third in 2008 compared to the budget currently in force and will be 0.6% of GDP. In the 2008 budget adopted, this deficit was planned at 0.9. Similarly, in 2009, we are planning a further significant 50% reduction in the budget deficit compared to 2008, with an additional 0.3% of GDP. It should be clarified that the projected higher deficit of the State budget, which is still lower than that foreseen in the 2008 budget already adopted, is due to organisational changes in the rail sector or related investments in railway infrastructure, the EU Presidency, and the necessary payment in balance provided for by the 2002 Civil Servants Act. I reiterate that the budget deficit in the 2008 draft amending budget is decreasing in the light of the 2008 budget adopted, despite the additional inclusion in the budget of the mentioned investments in rail infrastructure, in the majority of €110 million, which is 0.3% of GDP. I would also like to draw attention to another segment of one-off expenditure in 2008, namely the cost of Slovenia's Presidency of 37 million euros, which is 0.1% of GDP. Without dedicated expenditure, the deficit of the State budget could be reduced to only 0.2% of the 2009 budget by 2008. A total of 8,635 million revenue is planned in the 2008 State Budget proposal, which is 24% of the expected GDP and 8,865 million euros in expenditure and 24.6% of GDP. The largest share of revenue, almost 85%, is tax revenue, namely EUR 7324 million. European revenues are estimated at €800 - 1.5 million, non-tax revenues of €480.5 million, capital revenues, grants and transfer revenues are planned at €28.4 million. The expenditure of the State budget is increasing by €419.9 million in 2008 compared to the budget adopted, which is 5%, of which €191 million is European funding, or projects financed from the European budget. It is important that the expenditure of the State budget, compared to the 2008 budget adopted, as a proportion of GDP, is reduced, namely, in the 2008 budget adopted, it is envisaged that the share of expenditure would be 25.6%; of this, the so-called domestic 23.7% of GDP and the European part would be 1.9. However, the 2008 draft amending budget provides for total expenditure to be 24.7% of GDP, of which the so-called domestic budget is 22.4% and the European expenditure is 2.2 instead of 1.9. So 22.4 domestic instead of 23.7 and total, of course, slightly lower. The period of the new financial perspective, which will continue until 2013, started in 2007. We must be aware that payments from this financial perspective can be made by 2015. Although Slovenia is first among the new Member States in terms of the success of European funding; this is far from satisfactory; in 2007, this European funding drawback of the new financial perspective will be slightly worse than originally planned, partly as a result of the start of the new financial perspective only this year. We must be aware, however, that this pumping needs to be carried out in a particularly careful manner, and in doing so we must carry out all the procedures envisaged, since any deficiencies or irregularities in accordance with European standards and regulations lead to less European money or even the recovery of funds already received. For the real price of the net situation of Slovenia, I believe that it is more appropriate to take into account data for the entire programming period, i.e. a multi-annual period than only monthly or annual data on the use of European funds. Monitoring the monthly or annual net position of Slovenia is only worthwhile because of the current picture, which is not as important as the State's important net position throughout the whole period - this is until the end of the programming period. It should also be noted once again that the negative net situation in a given year does not in any way constitute a worse overall projected net position of the Republic of Slovenia for the entire programming period. Compared to the 2008 budget adopted, the most important increase is in the areas of transport, foreign policy, agriculture, economies, health care and more resources for science and technology as well as active employment policies. I would like to mention in particular all these cases. The changes in rail financing are a key reason why the transport sector in the 2008 draft budget is the largest increase compared to the budget adopted. In 2008, 780.8 million euros and 2.2% of GDP will be allocated to transport. Slovenia will have to face important priorities in the future in order to ensure greater development potential, among which the modernisation of the 5th and 10th Iron Corridor is certainly crucial. The field of foreign policy spending is increasing for two reasons. For the first time, this area also includes funding for the EU Presidency programme, which is increasing by € 10.4 million. The total amount of resources remains at €62 million, i.e. in terms of the presidency. Secondly, in line with the dynamics or realisation in 2007, funds for external affairs and consular services are also increasing. The area of agriculture is growing significantly by €96.6 million for 2008 compared to the budget adopted. However, it should be pointed out that the vast majority of this increase is EUR 87.3 million at the expense of European funds. In the agricultural field, however, we have decided to implement rural development measures in the period n plus 1 and not in the period n plus 2, which Europe allows us and would be in full compliance with European regulations. We have decided to take this step with a view to making it easier to monitor individual measures and to implement payments, and in particular to ensure that the funds are received first by the final beneficiaries, Slovenian farmers. The area of science and technology is very important. Once again, I would like to point out that, in line with the commitments made in the Lisbon Strategy, we are increasing the share of expenditure for this purpose and will already be 0.81% of GDP in 2009. Based on the annual accounts, 163.9 million euros or 0.61% of GDP were allocated to science and technology in 2004. Already in 2005, this share increased to 0.63% of GDP, by an additional 8.6% to 207 million euros in 2006, or 0.68% of GDP. In 2007, it is estimated that realisation will increase again, and for 2008 it is proposed that this amount be increased by 17.9% to EUR 263 million or 0.73% of GDP. Of course, this does not yet include the resources to which the State is giving up on the basis of the specific tax reliefs for these purposes, which I have already mentioned. For the financing of tertiary education, the 2008 and 2009 budgets maintain a favourable trend over the years. Thus, 213 million euros or 7.3% more than in 2004 were earmarked for tertiary education in 2005. Indeed, 231 million euro has already been spent in 2006. In 2007, however, it is envisaged that this sum will reach EUR 248 million. We propose to increase the funding for tertiary education to 276 million in 2008 and 302 million euros in 2009. By comparing the share of tertiary education as a share of the overall budget, we can see that tertiary education as a share of budgetary spending is increasing from 2.9% in 2005 to 3.3% in 2009. Funding for the Active Employment Policy Programme is also increasing from year to year, with an estimated €81 million for 2007 and €113 million planned for 2008, representing a 53% increase in 2004 in realisation. 53% increase from 2004 to 2008 in active employment policy. The relevant government employment policy is reflected in the historical low unemployment rate in Slovenia. Thus, the unemployment rate according to the ILO methodology was 6.6% in 2005 and 6% in 2006 and is expected to be 5% this year and 4.9% in 2008 and 4.8% in 2009. In addition to the reduced unemployment rate, the labour force increased by almost 70 000 from December 2004 to July 2007. On the expenditure side of the budget, I would like to point out that the expenditure on transfers is being reduced as the number of those who are genuinely or actually entitled under the law to a financial compensation for the unemployed and those who are entitled to transfers for the socially disadvantaged decreases from year to year. However, this decline in the number of excuses is not due to the amended sectoral legislation, which would limit the number of excuses, but an ever-increasing material situation for citizens and citizens and a successful government policy in all areas, especially in this area. The funds allocated to the economy will amount to €177 million in 2008, which is 0.5% of GDP. Compared to 2007, this represents 0.25% of GDP, or 90 million euros more. Here is only part of the funds allocated to the economy, in addition to the many already mentioned burdens due to changes in tax legislation. I would also like to highlight the areas where budgetary spending is falling. Expenditure on internal affairs and security is being reduced, where the Southern Border project is being completed. Therefore, it is fully understandable that the reduction of funds for this purpose is due. It is particularly important that I further explain to you the planned reduction in resources for the purpose of local self-government. In this case, it is only more appropriate to show expenditure for the purposes of regional development, namely transport infrastructure, housing, environmental protection and others, but not for less funds earmarked at local level, that is to say to the municipalities. When we look at the economic structure of the budget, we see that funds for co-financing investments at local level and investment transfers to municipalities from year to year are increasing. In 2007, investment transfers to municipalities will amount to €106 million, or 0.5% of GDP. In 2008, these funds will amount to €317 million, or 0.9% of GDP. In order to avoid misunderstandings about the reduction of funds for the local self-government area, I reiterate that this is not in any way a reduction of funds for the municipalities, but merely a more accurate presentation of data in the areas of consumption or purpose. Dear Members and honourable Members, the updated proposal for the 2009 budget of the Republic of Slovenia is prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and makes sense to take over 5 pages of the parent working body of supported amendments relating to the increase of funds from budgetary users; the Office for Nationality, the Roads Directorate, the Ministry of the Environment and the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment. The 2009 budget of the Republic of Slovenia is also prepared in accordance with current legislation and does not yet include changes related to the provinces. Following the establishment of the provinces and the adoption of the related legislation, the Government will approach the preparation of amendments to the 2009 budget, which will take into account the transfer of tasks from state jurisdiction to the jurisdiction of the provinces and the organisational changes adopted by the individual direct users of the State budget. The assessment of revenue in the updated draft budget for 2009 remains the same or the projected revenue remains the same as in the original draft budget for 2009. The 2009 draft state budget totals €8,987 million in revenue, 23.4% of GDP and €9,112 million in expenditure, or 23.7% of GDP, including the largest part for education, pension protection, social protection and transport, transport infrastructure and communication. The funds received from the European Union remain as planned in the 2009 draft budget. We estimate that these funds are planned in real terms, since we have already taken into account a slightly lower realisation of the revenue provided for in this Title in 2007 when preparing the draft budget for 2009, and therefore we estimate that no corrections are needed in the supplementary draft budget. As already mentioned in the presentation of the 2008 budget changes, state budget expenditure as a share of GDP has been declining since 2005 and, more importantly, the so-called domestic part of the budget, i.e. without funds from the EU, from 24.5% in 2004 and 2005, to 22.4% of GDP in 2008 and even 21.4% of GDP in 2009. However, the European part of programme expenditure is increasing from year to year, from 0.9% of GDP in 2007 to 2.2% in 2008 and 2.3% in 2009, which is the logical consequence of making the most of the resources allocated to us in the European budget. Expenditure in the updated draft budget for 2009 remains the same as in the initial draft budget for 2009. However, changes in individual economic purposes are explained in more detail in the explanation of the material. The supplementary draft budget changes the structure and level of expenditure in the financial plans of the Nationality Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Education and Sport. The state budget for 2008 and 2009 is development-oriented. As we have already mentioned from year to year, resources for science and technology are increasing, and investment in research and development is also left to entrepreneurs themselves, as in recent tax changes have enabled them to make an expensive contribution to such investments, as I have already mentioned today. It therefore offers 20% relief from investment in R & D and an additional regional relief of up to 20% for this purpose, i.e. companies in less developed regions. Dear Members and Members. The government will continue with a prudent policy of public spending and revenue planning, assessing that the current forecasts in economic growth for 2008 and 2009 are conservative. This will make a significant contribution to Slovenia's medium- and long-term macroeconomic stability, which is the fundamental role of fiscal policy when it enters the European monetary union. The proposal for amending the budget for 2008 and 2009 is an expression of the commitment to improve the quality of public finances and the government's commitment that fiscal policy should contribute to speeding up the level of the more developed EU Member States. We continue the process of gradual fiscal consolidation, which is consistent with the Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Slovenia, with the amendments to the Stability and Growth Pact, and not least in accordance with the programme commitments of this Government, as enshrined in the Coalition Treaty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u6	Thank you, Minister. Since the Committee's report has not yet been distributed, I am adjourning the meeting and will continue at 10.15 a.m. So, quarter to ten, we'll resume the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. We're moving on to the session. I see the report's already on its hands. Mr. Squeakle, please. You have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u8	Mr. President. I don't want to delay, considering we've got a long day. But still. The report we received on page 3 states that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, until the deadline for their submission, did not define or manage the amendments until the beginning of the meeting of the home working body, so the Government's written opinion on the amendments tabled to the National Assembly will be forwarded to the Council before the opening of the consideration of the draft amendments to the State budget or amendments tabled to it. My question is: Has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia been in writing, and we have a clear written definition of the amendments tabled? That was the usual practice. I understand that due to Saturday's extraordinary meetings, I don't know what else, this may not have been possible on Saturday, but, however, on this page 3 is a very clear promise from the Government, and I wonder whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should tell us whether we have a clear written definition of whether the Government has accepted this at a correspondence meeting or whether this is what the Minister of Finance is doing? But I think it's an important question. If the government has somehow decided on Saturday to accept, if I am not mistaken, the 41 amendments of the coalition, it is right to get a written opinion on this why it supports it and why it rejects dozens of amendments of the opposition. However, the document, which predicts that we will be in the National Assembly, says in the "Church of Democracy" we will get a clear written position from the Government, and apparently predicts something that has not yet been achieved by the Government. By asking, President, for the protection of the Council of State to explain this to us. But if the government doesn't care, let him say it. Only then do not let him promise something that is written in a document signed by Mr Starman as a clear undertaking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u9	Thank you. The written opinion of the Government is not a condition for further consideration. The point meets all the conditions for us to continue the discussion, and the Government has only 90 minutes of time in the 2008 budget and will be able to explain all your concerns thoroughly and so on. The draft act was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the President, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u10	I welcome it all very well. Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. First, I would like to start with the report of the committee on Saturday 24.11. - amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. The Committee considered this change of budget for 2008 or the rebalancing as a parent labour force. However, a proposal for amending the budget was submitted to the procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee has also received opinions from interested bodies which I will not list and are reflected in the report. 115 amendments were forwarded to Members and Members of Parliament, as well as to Member Groups and the Commission for the Nationality Community as an interested working body to consider draft amendments to the budget. The other working bodies concerned did not formulate their amendments, but adopted individual opinions and conclusions. Following an extensive presentation of the proposed changes to the 2008 budget, there was a heated debate, which was also expected. The budget is one strange bag where we have all shared opinions, both on the Committee and in general, in order to ensure that we give as little as possible in this bag in the form of taxes and various matters and, of course, on the other hand, a whole set of wishes, where we were also united, in order to get as much out of this bag as possible. Thus, there is always and will always be a need to find a compromise in advance, and here through the budget the Government of Slovenia is implementing its policy, which is focused on the objectives that were also presented when the budget and the memorandum to the budgets for 2008 and 2009. There has been a lot of discussion on how the budget would practically contribute to reducing inflation or mitigating the effects of inflation, but at the end of the day, on the Committee itself, we do not even have the authority, by the rules of procedure, to change global things in the budget itself, but we are only defining ourselves until the amendments that have been tabled in the budget. Many different opinions were presented, and an interesting discussion was where everyone had the opportunity to say theirs in a long debate. The Committee then identified itself to the amendments tabled to the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008, adopted one amendment to the amendment in the context of the consideration of the amendments of the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Slovenia to the Transport Ministry, the user of the 2415 Slovenian Roads Directorate, the user of the 2511 Ministry of the Environment and Space, the extension of the sub-programme for improving the state of the environment. For the Ministry of Health, 2711, user 3311 Ministry of Education and Sport, user 3331 Office for Youth, extension of sub-programme, sport programmes and amendment of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to user 1516 Office for Nationality, and support for nationalities communities, as well as amendments of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group to user 3511 - Ministry of Culture, investment in culture. The Committee did not define up to two amendments to the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the democratic parties of pensioners to the user 2511 - the Ministry of the Environment, and the amendment of Ambassador Sam Bevek to the user 1537 - the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreigners worldwide, because the amendments were not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The other amendments, as stated above, were adopted by the Committee and proposed to be adopted in today's debate. For 2009, the year where so much attention has not been paid to the general debate, which is also logical. In 2009, there will be almost certainly a rebalancing on the basis of amended data and we have therefore identified ourselves here until the 71st amendments and only adopted two amendments. The Committee supported the amendments of the Italian and Hungarian Group of Nationalities to user 1516 - Nationality Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, support to nationalities communities for €80,000 and additional funding from the Italian Nationality Community institutions to user 3511 - Ministry of Culture, increase funds in the sub-programme for investment in culture by €86 000. The Committee has not confirmed any of the other amendments tabled to the supplementary draft budget. Nor did the Committee define itself until the amendment of Ambassador Janez Drobnič to user 2611 - Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, since the amendment was not tabled in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 160 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Although a proposal has been made to adopt an amendment to the amendment to supplement this proposal, this proposal has not been adopted by the Committee. Thus, only these two amendments, which we propose to take into account when adopting the 2009 budget, were finally adopted. Since I have a few more minutes, I'm going to say a few more words about the numbers that we're going to be discussing these next days. I will come from a common bag, this is what we create in one year in our country and it is measured as a gross domestic product of the Republic of Slovenia, which was foreseen for 2007 - 31 billion 657 and in the 2007 realisation estimate is GDP - 33 billion 177. Here I would say that an increase of €1520 billion in one year will obviously be significantly better here in 2007 as well as the result of the collection of public finances and expenditure, as the expenditure or deficit of the state budget and other data coming from this base will be substantially reduced. Even in 2008, we planned a much smaller total harvest, we planned €33 billion in total income or GDP, and we are increasing this base to 35 billion 953, which is a 2.160 billion increase in this total, which is then shared. But we're dividing it into these three or four cash registers, we have a total of about 42% of which we're spending on all public finances. In 2007, we estimate that these total public spending will be 14 billion and 52,000 euros, in 2008 we anticipate 14 billion 625 and in the budget balance of 15 billion 397 euros. The increase from the basic draft budget to the rebalancing is 772 million on the expenditure side and 805 million on the revenue side of these cash registers and increases in resources for both the state budget itself, which represents a share of EUR 8 billion 634 in 2008, before the rebalancing was 8 billion 138 and as you can see we [[..]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Increased spending for 2008 is projected to be 419 billion, and millions of euros in budget spending and budget revenues are estimated to be higher. [[..]] They are also increasing, let me just say these three numbers, for 2008 we give 4 billion € 420 for a pension allowance, for a health allowance of 2 billion € 168 and for municipal cash registers [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] 873. [[...]] Together, in all these cash budgets, funds increase by 419 on the expenditure side, in the pension fund by 110, in the health budget by 101 and in the total municipalities by 141 million tolars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u11	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear ministers and other colleagues of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The revision of the 2008 budget and the 2009 draft budget are likely to be the last budgets to be adopted by the National Assembly in this mandate. At the same time, for the first time, we are adopting a budget after the entry into the euro area, which gives the whole procedure a special emphasis and a special responsibility, at the third milestone in the short history of Slovenia, independence, EU entry and entry into the euro area. In doing so, we are guided by the most important guidelines. For the first time, a competitive economy and faster economic growth, secondly, efficient creation, a two-way flow and the use of knowledge for economic development and quality jobs, third, an efficient and cheaper country, fourth, a modern social state and greater employment, fifth, integration of measures to achieve sustainable development. To achieve these priorities, public financial and macroeconomic policies focus on the gradual reduction of the public financial deficit and on sustainable wage and pricing policies, which are crucial in maintaining macroeconomic stability and competitiveness even after the euro is taken over. We are witnessing very positive indicators of economic growth and reducing public expenditure, reducing the tax burden on work due to tax reform, reducing the number of unemployed. The inflation or price rise we have seen in recent years must become a transitional problem, or this will lead to a deterioration of the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and the credibility of the new euro area Member State. We are witnessing a high level of bargaining between the social partners, by giving a clear signal that profit must be more equitablely divided among all who create it, just as we cannot point to the wrong food promoters with our finger. This is, for example, for producers of basic raw materials, and everyone else in the chain is treated as a logical consequence. Every forecast and trend in energy prices, especially petroleum derivatives, is also problematic and risky. The fact is that everything shows that the assumptions on the price of energy at the latest price levels are undervalued and that there is no indication that global prices would return to the projected level in this area. Revenue from the EU budget and payments to the European budget are also of paramount importance. In particular, the first one is to adhere to the exact rules of the game that are in force in the EU if we want the withdrawal to be predictable and expected. In doing so, all the institutions that run individual projects have great responsibility. The increase in funds allocated to the economy, education, active employment policy, science and technological development is particularly marked by an increase in investment funds. It is also important that all procedures are conducted transparently and in the light of good governance by public means. The legislation has been amended, and we have also adopted a law on public-private partnership, so there is no reason why we would not be successful in using European funds and there is no reason why the implementation of investments would not go well, so that the effect would also be favourable. In particular, I would like to highlight the areas to which we have also given special emphasis in our discussions. The first is the financial position of municipalities, which, with their active development activities, are most pronounced in the direction of more evenly decentralised development. The second is the concern for the environment, with particular emphasis on the preparedness for the climate change we are witnessing. Although or precisely because this is a global problem, action is more than necessary, both in agriculture, leadership, energy policy and elsewhere. The third concerns the management of the public sector market and the withdrawal of the country from the economy, with an emphasis on the exercise of national interest. The current privatisation processes are taking place in this direction. Fourthly, there is concern for a family that is not only a duty of the State to the basic human community, but a condition for the existence of the State of Slovenia as a whole. And the fifth area, the area of future regionalisation of a country for which, in particular, individual ministries are required to prepare in the coming year all necessary to be able to make an appropriate reallocation or change of the state budget in accordance with the envisaged adoption of provincial legislation, a suitable basis for the start of the landscapes' operations also in the area of financing. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposed budgetary documents with all the changes proposed by the Government and the changes endorsed by the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u13	Thank you. Dr. Matej Lahovnik will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Dear Members. Mr. Minister, government representatives. We do not really support the proposed budget for 2008 and 2009. I'd like to remind you of our key point. In the Group of Members, we really believe that fiscal policy should be restrictive in existing situations, not expansionary or loose, which we are facing. Last but not least, we are reminded of this by representatives of the Executive Committee of the European Central Bank, a member of the European Commission on Finance and many other experts, who, of course, are also concerned about rising inflation in Slovenia. In particular, I would like to point out that we have already taken the initiative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the end of August this year to organise a meeting of all parliamentary parties before the budgets for 2008 and 2009 are adopted in order to reach an agreement on how to set up a fiscal policy so that we can face existing inflation trends. I'm afraid that didn't happen. We are witnessing a budget that continues to provide a loose fiscal policy, and in some ways the Ministry of Finance claims are quite unusual, which ensures to the entire Slovenian and world public that Slovenia has a restrictive fiscal policy. Apparently, in the European Central Bank, obviously in the European Commission, and obviously in the domestic professional public, who all think differently and point out the need to change fiscal policy, they have no or no idea what is going on in Slovenia. Allow me to briefly point out some negative trends. In view of the fact that inflation is foreseen in Slovenia for 2007 alone, that Slovenia faces 2% of the deficit at the same time, 2% of gross domestic product as a deficit in the current balance of payments account and given the high external debt, Slovenia is slowly reaching all the signs of a negative Portuguese scenario. If the characteristics of some countries that introduced the euro in 2001 to face high inflation were Ireland, Finland and Portugal, which had inflation between 3% and 4.5%, then the fact that Ireland and Finland responded with restrictive fiscal policy with surplus budgets in 2002 and Portugal continued with a loose fiscal policy and budget deficits. Today, a few years later, we can see that Ireland and Finland had a success story, while Portugal was in serious trouble, after having itself had a budget deficit like Slovenia, faced a deficit in the current balance of payments account, like Slovenia, faced a high level of indebtedness, like Slovenia, in the coming years when the situation on export markets deteriorated, a severe recession. We can ask what policy Slovenia is leading then. And we are facing 4.3% inflation with a deficit in the current balance of payments account of 2% of gross domestic product and the total indebtedness of this country, which is already more than 30 billion euros or easier to compare - this debt is already higher than that of the former Yugoslavia in the 1980s. It may not seem problematic to anyone, but if it isn't, the inflation trend warns us that things aren't easy. At the same time, I would like to point out that not only is Slovenia supposed to or that the total debt already amounts to more than EUR 30 billion, but not only that, the fact is that, with existing budgets or with the Budget Implementation Act, more than a billion euro guarantees are foreseen, which, of course, increases aggregate demand and also negatively affects existing inflation trends. It should also be highlighted when we are talking about economic growth, which is high, that this is also largely due to the construction of the highway cross, that this is also because Dars, for example, issued EUR 724 million of public procurement last year alone, and that the total value of public procurement in Slovenia is EUR 3.2 billion or 42% of gross domestic product. This is the truth about Slovenian economic growth, based on debt and increased investment in construction. It is particularly important to point out that the Government or coalition has not adopted some of the proposals of the Zares Group when there was a talk on the maximum amount of debt - there will be more talks under the Budget Implementation Act - we have proposed that this should be reduced from €1.57 billion to €900 million, as proposed by our fellow Member, Mr Vila Trofenik, and you have also rejected this, of course. At the same time, we had a number of amendments, whose common denominator is that we wanted to increase funds for technological development also for foreign direct investment creating new jobs, and you rejected all amendments in turn. In particular, it is also worth pointing out that on Saturday, you rejected the amendment of a fellow Member, who wanted to make a contribution to the hospital in Trboje, some more than EUR 5 million. On this committee, you have decided to make an additional EUR 15,000 available to this hospital. What this hospital can do with 15,000 euros, how it can invest in the modernisation and reconstruction of existing equipment, is really a big question. This is actually a question for the Nobel Prize, how to make 15 000 euros worth of investments, which are projected at more than EUR 5 million. This is, as a member of our committee, Mr Trophynik, the culmination of cynicism, misdirection and shows what the actual relationship of the coalition to this budget is. Some eye ointment is added, but in fact nothing has been done in the area of health care at the Trbovlje hospital. Your Honor! In particular, it is also worth noting some of the claims made by the Minister of Finance. He talked about how resources for active employment policies were being increased or mentioned by means of self-employment. Of course, he did not say what was crucial: that only those who gave their full role could benefit from these funds in 2006 and all others must wait until spring 2008. This is also the story of Slovenian active employment policy and bureaucrat mills. And when we listened to the Minister of Finance's expositions, some of them answered and warned me. Yes, even if they want to self-employment and acquire funds, they must wait until spring 2008 because they are rules. One is what carries paper when a statistical impression is generated, and the other is real facts. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the draft budgets are extremely weak, that they do not take into account the real economic reality that we are witnessing in Slovenia, that instead of a restrictive fiscal policy, it continues to provide an expansion fiscal policy and that the fact that Slovenia still has a budgetary deficit is nothing more than an expansionary fiscal policy. And this is exactly the fiscal policy that we are reminded that it is bad, both for the European Commissioner for Finance, Mr Almunia and for the members of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank. And if the warnings of the local professional public are not already taken into account at the Ministry of Finance, then it would be appropriate to take at least the warnings coming from abroad into account. They too are concerned about and concerned about this growing trend of inflation in Slovenia because Slovenia, with the levers it has at its disposal, and this lever is a budgetary policy, does nothing to reverse these trends. Given the fact that we are assessing in the Group of Members that the proposal for both budgets for the next two years is very poor and that it would be better not to accept it at all, we will not support these proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u16	Your Honors are here! Allow me to begin or to stem from the fact that we have witnessed to him in our country in the last two years. There was no state celebration, there was no talk of the ruling policy, there was no media that is daily under the influence of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which would not talk at all and everywhere in the last two years about the success of our country, about incredible economic growth. There was no government representative, especially the President of the Government himself, the Minister of Finance, not least the other ministers and the ruling Members, who would not tell our citizens and citizens that we are wonderful, that we are phenomenal and that Western Europe, the EU, last but not least, has a whole world for one vision, a success story, what can be done in a few years. For a year or two, government representatives have talked again and again about the success of the domestic economy, about how wonderful it is for us in our country. The fact is that statistics can be shown in one way or another. And it is regrettable that today's policy or the current government is using it exclusively for its own good and is not prepared to show the situation as it is, so that all of us can work together in the form of an economy, at least in the form of a civil sphere or not least, most importantly, the professional public through the Bank of Slovenia, the macro-economicists, but to be prepared to deal with the situation. Given that statistical data cannot be kept alive, given that statistical data, coefficients and percentages cannot be purchased for daily needs. And given that statistics are unfortunately increasingly and repeatedly used only to demonstrate the political success of the Government of Slovenia, allow me to point out from this place two sad facts, which unfortunately came into parliamentary rhetoric only in the last lane, too late and ineffective. A few days ago, or rather a few weeks ago, we cheered our citizens up with a bit of 10% stimulation of food products. In the coming days, you will give our citizens and citizens a wonderful, Christmas or New Year's gift, in increasing electricity prices within our country. I want to show you that the statistics on performance on the one hand, at the celebrations, are used by representatives of the government, and the actual situation has nothing in common. I was talking about that a few weeks ago, the fall gift was 10% increase in some of the food products. At the same time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia said, yes, as this is not the case, the whole range of the food industry has risen in comparable European countries. But this comparison from this city is very, very interesting, in Slovenia 10%, in the Member States of the European Union, or rather, the euro area 2.5% or 4 times less. But that wouldn't be all. The characteristics of the image in the euro area countries were that this reflection was a very short period of time and that, as a rule, the prices of food products, i.e. those that were subject to recovery, have been lowered to the previous level in these comparable Western European countries. We have not witnessed this in Slovenia, and unfortunately it is indicated or because of political unwillingness after quality dialogue, both with macroeconomicists and, last but not least, with micro-economists, we will not expect this. As part of his performance, the Minister, in addition to his access, must not forget that his second performance, which took place in the last month with the same content, highlighted, according to my assessment, two important facts for which he wanted to remain a message or a "message" to us viewers and, finally, to all users of this public financial act. Firstly, the government will also prevent cartel arrangements in advance. How successfully the government has so far prevented cartel agreements, we see, not least with auctions. If this is the success of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, if the success of the negotiation on the prevention of cartel arrangements is demonstrated through incitement, then in the national party we sincerely wish that such successes would no longer be achieved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because the fact is that such activities have been completely missed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, without effect and without results. The minister's second message was: the tax reform is positive for both citizens and citizens, and not least for the economy. The positive effects of this tax reform are now available from the Evening Diary. On the first hand, everyone who has time or access to the Internet and access to this newspaper should see what those who are supposed to worry about think about this tax reform, Minister Bajuk and not least the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are also coming into a period or I apologize and correct, we are already deep into a period where we have a strong rise in net external debt from day to day. This is a fact that no one ever mentions a minister or a government service. We are now in a period of growing deficit in the current balance of payments account, resulting from debt abroad. In the debate I had in the National Assembly on the privatisation of the New Credit Bank, we mentioned several times what is the debt of our country's full-year resident outside, so what is the external debt, not just internal debt. Inflation is also in this area. Why? Because this level of indebtedness of our inhabitants, not by his own will, but by the will of the current government and by the will of Minister Bajuk, is expanding or increasing at an unrestrained rate. These are different types of statistics. Those who have a basis or who also cause this price rise. Economic growth, i.e. the word link, which is the most common in the mouth or comes from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, was statistically or numerically seen at the top of its curve within seven months. In this context, I stress that 5% of economic growth in Slovenia, if this is real economic growth, should be reflected in this public financial act, whether for 2008 or not, for 2009. So by reducing the deficit, but not in the way that he is trying to show us, so the deficit, Mr Bayuk, is the Minister of Finance, by removing the so-called Darsa Treasury from the general budget. On the other hand, 5% of economic growth could be reflected, if it were real, in a balanced budget, i.e. between deficits and surpluses, or whether it should come, which some macroeconomics believe would not be the best during the budget surplus period. But why am I saying this? I speak because these are current and pressing matters within our country, which will prove to be negative from day to day in our country. And, of course, not only did they show through the minute spent on this public assembly speaker, but they showed above all in the price rise also in all other areas. According to the assessment of the National Party's Parliamentary Group, we have called on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia no more than once after examining the structure of economic growth. What does this high progress suggest over the last 7 months that Slovenia has been successful at some declaration level? According to our assessment, only the wrong structure of economic growth. The fact is that it is linked to a narrow segment of extremely strong exporters. And, of course, the issue of competitiveness or a lack of competitiveness in the field of the Republic of Slovenia arises here. And here is the answer to the criticism coming from European Union experts. So it's a lack of pure competitiveness. Today's non-competitive period is between us, and this indicates the mentioned economic growth, which is numerically enviable in growth, but in reality does not show itself in the form of what is expected of it. We have been in our country for several months now, even at a time when Slovenia no longer meets the convergence criteria. I think there are three months behind us when we no longer meet one of these, some very important criteria. Why is it that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not do the opposite in order to meet this convergence criteria? The fact is that, unfortunately, in our country when the euro was taken over, the convergence criteria were taken into account, taking into account the content of these convergence criteria and limits, but not merely pursuing the objective of putting certain macro-economic instruments, particularly from the monetary area, within these limits. That didn't happen. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not know or did not want to use the purpose of convergence criteria because of the excessive burden on our ministers for the Presidency of the European Union. Once again, never and never has been, it was not intended to meet the convergence criteria solely that this is the goal of entry into the euro area, but that the convergence criteria have always been set exclusively and only to stabilise macroeconomics through them and that the contribution of a small country, in this case the Republic of Slovenia, to the general shift in the value of the euro will be minimal and thus maintain the stability of the euro towards third currencies or exchange rates. However, the fact is that we can safely say that we have come right through the failure to comply with the convergence criterion for several months, also as a result of the reality of the euro's real course. What does that mean, of course? What does this mean for our citizens who are in the form of legal persons? The return effect on economic growth. Why? Because economic growth in Slovenia is linked to a small number of exporters. And, of course, the perception will be in a worse situation than it has today, especially for exporters, who will be much less competitive from this title. So what will their contribution to the future economic growth assessment be, or even more importantly, what will be their contribution to the real level of economic growth? Emphasis, our economic growth is almost exclusively linked to those that will be hit most by the aspirations after their business results or in the area of competitiveness. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has repeatedly said how successful our country is, and again, when it forgets that we have had 10% of the promotion in our country for our citizens of food products and that we will come to a period of 5% of the increase in electricity, it reiterates: inflation is not here because of us, citizens and citizens, we have not produced it within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but this inflation has been imported. Imported in the sense that it's so-called agro-inflation. And since this is imported agro-inflation, the Ministry of Finance is constantly wondering why we would be dealing with it if it was imported inflation. The fact is that in this area there is the greatest weakness of the existing, today shown publicly-owned act, i.e. the 2008 budget, which is unfortunately not prepared - that is, the act prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - to tackle also the alleged only reason in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. imports of inflation. According to our assessment, that is to say, according to the National Party's Group's assessment, the State, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, still has a strong hold on all monetary policy instruments, all the fiscal policy instruments with which it should have already, not today, tackled once the threats to inflation, today the fact that inflation has taken place within our country. But how does the Minister respond to that? Don't talk about inflation, because inflation also promotes expectations within our country. So let's close our eyes. We are not talking about today's promotion, but, above all, it will be tomorrow and in the coming days, but we are all talking together about how the most beautiful thing in Slovenia is, because economic growth allows for progress. In my opinion, this is extremely irresponsible. Irresponsible to every citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. Whether it is located on the market as an entrepreneur, an economist, or just as an ordinary, say, employee. But the fact is, this is irresponsible to all layers within our country. It all reminds us of what was said: "Look, don't touch! Touch it, but don't taste it. Try it, but don't swallow it." In short, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has something to say to us, but I will not say with what, because I believe you know, wave in front of the eyes and promise, yes, that is fine. But at the same time, it takes us to the so-called inflation spiral. According to my assessment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also not partial to maintaining macroeconomic stability. Why? We don't know. Some say, but I personally estimate that it is not only very irresponsible for our Government that this is a situation that is conditioned primarily by the Presidency of the European Union, on the other hand, by neglecting domestic important issues, including in the field of macro-economics. On the other hand, it attaches to these assumptions not least Monday's meeting of the National Assembly when a vote on the confidentiality vote was held, where only what Europe will think is happening in the country that will take over the presidency for the next six months has been re-emphasized. The government offered us to take control of someone else, of course this was an offer, we all know what it was, with a fig in our pocket. But the fact is that, in the speech of the President of the Government of Janez Janša, there was nothing to express fear of the government, of our citizens and citizens, of guiding those instruments that would help stabilise the macroeconomic situation in our country, but that concern was devoted solely to the Presidency of the European Union. I think that's wrong. All of us directly and people behind my back were directly elected by citizens and citizens, not by gentlemen from different countries or the institutions of the European Union. And unfortunately we're not aware of that. It has become much more valuable or government politicians tend to smile at the headlines of the European Union’s daily newspaper, rather than allow images to appear on the front page of the daily newspaper or other media that actually reflect the level and quality of life in our country. In particular, today's findings in the Evening newspaper are of concern, how much of our citizens estimate that they live worse than they did last year. I have to use the word sorry again, but only because I'm really sorry. In recent years, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not been able to respond to warnings from domestic and, last but not least, foreign professions, foreign professions on macroeconomic pasta, pasta where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has fallen as a primary school. In my opinion, therefore, we must not, in any case, and if I return to the rate of monetary valuation, inflation, we must not agree that the Slovenian public or, finally, foreign observers will take the view of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that inflation, in addition to imported inflation, is also responsible for the dispute between producers and sellers. This is also wrong, misleading, especially harmful thinking and harmful giving of theories and thesis coming from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On one occasion, I even tracked down a government representative who said that even Mr Jankovic was responsible for the inflation. But these are harmful theories, these are harmful mental knowledge of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I spoke earlier about embezzlements within the euro area Member States, 2.5%. Where are we today, and where are we now in our country? We have stressed that the structure of economic development or economic growth is unsuccessful for a long-term, stable macroeconomic environment, as it is linked to a very narrow circle of economists in our country. And even within this circle, i.e. exporters, the structure is linked to a small number of exporters, which typically consist of the so-called public reputation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. From this address we have come to appreciate, from this title we will come to so-called economic non-competitiveness. The next step that will follow is the problem with employment, because the fact is that low economic growth will start to reflect and the topic at least at the educational institutions, at the very beginning of their lecture, I call the inflation spiral. I want to say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, despite being able to get all the help and support, I know about the National Party; I have previously heard my colleague Lakhovnik, even from their side, still holds his eyes and pulls everything aside. We don't need you, because economic growth is still phenomenal. What if, a few weeks ago, food products increased by 10%! What if, in the early part of next year, electricity gets irradiated! According to my assessment, this is not the right thing to do, and according to my assessment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should establish a specific colleague Ziherl, don't you understand what I'm saying? [[...]] I believe so. And social dialogue, although so much fun for many people, is so unnecessary within our country, ladies and gentlemen, social dialogue is not just a kind of conversation that affects a single increase in wages, claims or anything else arising from social partners, social dialogue should be, and abroad, one of the guarantors of macroeconomic stability. Employers are not in need of macro-economy. The same applies to employers. And as long as this country treats the social partners in this way or in this form, until then we will not have, unfortunately, a stable macroeconomic picture again. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as I said before, is still talking about success stories today and here, about economic growth. Nevertheless, he still closes his eyes in front of all the other indicators. If someone within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia thinks that the friendship, corruption and clientism of some of these young people within the Government of Slovenia or the cabinet of the President of the Government will allow economic prosperity at the level of citizens and citizens, he is deeply wrong. I believe the objectives of this government are to raise wealth. Unfortunately, they are designed to raise the wealth of individuals within our society. Especially those individuals who are very close, but I will not tell the government in full, because here I miss DeSUS, New Slovenia, but I expose the SDS in particular.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u17	Excuse me, there's something wrong with the microphone. Is it working? Try again.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u18	Can I talk to you for a second? Thank you very much. I am glad that you listened to me and that you noticed that the microphone stopped working, because usually the story of the past year, two or three was that you simply shouldn't or wanted to listen. At least that's what your actions were under the legislative procedure. I'm glad you're listening. But please continue with this rare activity of yours. We have come at a time when today and here the effects of economic growth between us should be. But are the effects of this enviable economic growth among us in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia? Whoever looks at the budget or looks at it will see that there are no such effects. And in fact, we also have an act that is based on seduction this time. As I said in the introduction, Minister Bajuk is one of those who, in addition to the word "economic" and "growth", is also very fond of the word "budget deficit". The extent to which it has decreased and the ratio of the budget deficit to the gross social product is also positive. So all those words sound nice to your ear, but unfortunately for your wallet, they're more than beautiful. The fact is, wallets are dwindling or spending on daily supplies is increasing. I'm stressing again. This type of government policy is felt by those who have low purchasing power on their skin. The fact is, there are quite a few people who will never hurt a day’s competition, perhaps bread, gasoline, or electricity. But these should not be the only motto of macroeconomic policy on which the government can influence through monetary or fiscal means. I would also like to stress what the Minister said, according to my assessment, was also misleading, the success of drawing on European funds. In the National Assembly, we have not yet been able to hold a debate despite 2004, 2005, 2006 and, last but not least, the implementation of 2007 on the effectiveness of drawing from the European Union. The fact is that membership within the European Union costs us enormously. And the fact is that a successful EU Member State could also obtain quite a few funding from the EU. It is also true that Slovenia is unfortunately not successful in this area. That is why we have, despite the fact that the budget for the coming year tells us 100% of the realisation of European funds, there is a sad fact that this is a reality from one to ten, i.e. from the first to the tenth months of this year. The social fund, ladies and gentlemen, the success of drawing on the Republic of Slovenia or better said by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is 5%, cohesion 13%, local self-government 12%. I stress and repeat, the social fund has the success of drawing our country out by the EU institutions is 5%, cohesion is 13% and local self-government is 12%. And then someone can come here and say, "We Slovenians are successful in drawing funds from the EU." No, gentlemen, we can't say that. We shouldn't even look at it in peace. We should react to that. But 14 days ago, you had, I think, a colleague of Bogdan Barovic's not to hold me to the point of whether he, or any other Member, was an opportunity to discuss the effectiveness of drawing on European funds. Do you know what the answer was, not only the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but the ruling Members? "No, we don't want to discuss it." And if I have intended to use a word or two to draw on European funds, it is probably not necessary to emphasise the realisation of payments in these institutions within the EU. And if I take the same period for comparison, that is, the period of implementation 2001-2010, then we pay, our country, 100%. On the one hand, we have the realization of benefits, which on the average between these three funds ranges from 15, 13, 12% of the funds we acquire, the funds we pay, we pay 100%. And that is why I also ask all those who are creating or who are the wise and authors of this government macroeconomic policy: Do you really feel that Slovenian citizens are so rich that we can afford it? At the same time, we must not neglect that we have European prices, but that wages are far from being European. Where, then, does the government policy mentioned and the inactiveness of the National Assembly lead us by ruling Members who do not want to speak publicly about these issues? We can only come to the realization that you all believe together the theory of Mr Andre Bajuk, that we must not talk about inflation, because it will increase it. Of course, in the National Party, we will not nod. It is right and fair for those who have entrusted us with the leadership of this country to know where we are, especially where we are going, and most importantly what we should do to move from this path of macroeconomic instability to macroeconomic stability. I will not talk about individual parts of the budget, but I would like to point out that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has only increased financial resources on some of the items. Everywhere else we are in a period of chaoticity or in my opinion of a bad situation. It is interesting, however, that the Government has increased several million euros for itself during the Presidency of the European Union. From this title, I really do not think it is worth it, and I believe that you, too, know deep down that it is not worth a photograph in the domestic or foreign media of any of our ministers at the side of two smiling fellow European citizens, that you are doing what you are doing on this account, so you are authorising the impressions of products within our country. That's the wrong policy. I believe that many of you would like to have a look at the front page of the daily newspaper, especially if you could show your locals and say, "This one comes from Austria and this one comes from Switzerland," but before that it will be necessary to show how our people live, not those in Austria, Switzerland, Great Britain or elsewhere. I ask you, if you will, see today's public echo shown in the Evening. The degree to which our citizens feel for themselves that they lived before the year and how they live today. What for the same amount of money, on the one hand, could be bought before the year and, on the other hand, how much money has changed for the purchase of the same product. And maybe another word or two about talking to Comrade Trofenic. Unfortunately, we are also at a time when the color of the mayor is much more important than the color of the patients, and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not look at the content of the proposed amendment, but is looking exclusively at who proposed it. Comrade Bogdan Barovic tried to obtain funds that had already been allocated to him in the past, nothing had been taken from me or, I apologize, not to him, but to the hospital of Trbovlje. These funds have already been allocated, then reassigned to an ineffective matter and none of you, at least I expected from you, if I am no longer from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to give priority to the content, not to the final signature of that act of amendment. We have tabled several amendments in the National Party, many of them linked to the Maribor City Municipality, to infrastructure and similar ways of making things very urgent. But the fact is and from this point of view came a representative or, I apologize, a president of the home labour body who said that we do not have the authority in Parliament to make general changes to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. That's probably what he's holding. The fact is, however, it is very sad that, given that we confirm the budget, we do not have the opportunity to influence any macroeconomic instrument within our country, but the Government allows us to play as children in the sandbox exclusively with 5, 10, 15 thousand euros in amendments. And if we look at it, given that I have your attention, I think that for the first time, at least I don't believe that not because I mentioned you, is an extremely interesting relationship between tax revenue and non-tax revenue within our country. What I am in this house, in Parliament, is a negative relationship for development or stabilisation. The fact is that the tax revenues, that is, those revenues that the state commands and punishes if they are not realized, reach over 90% of our country's total income. And that the non-tax revenue, the one through which the efficiency, quality and wisdom of the existing government are seen, is less than 10%. Ladies and gentlemen, this simply indicates that in the past public finances have not been developed, because development does not return exclusively and only through the number of tax beneficiaries, but also through participation in the profits of companies where the country has a 100% share or a smaller share. Of course, the revenue in the budget is back in proportion to that share. On the other hand, since 2001 we have been talking about the need for a law on concession, a law on the roof which we have not had, which we do not have, and which is not known to be in preparation at all. The fact is that concessions are those activities which are under the exclusive competence of the State or local communities. And if we look at the budgets of local communities, i.e. municipalities, then we see that concession revenue, whether direct or indirect, much higher than in the state budget, is total non-tax revenue. At the same time, allow, very interestingly, it has always been easy, on the one hand also meaningful, to play with the indexation shown in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia as the most important legal or public financial act of our country. The indexation under Account 70, i.e. tax revenue, is 104.9. This means that in a comparable period, so four is three divided by two columns three and two, increased by 4.9 values. While this increase to non-tax revenue was exclusively 3.6 [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This clearly indicates the developmental nature of that act ahead of us. [[...]] No one in this house will be able to say or claim that in the framework of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia we are facing an act that carries instruments for a stable macroeconomic policy or stability within our country. And that's the first and basic reason why the National Party [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] such an act, which is called the budget, will not be supported. [[...]] Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Retired. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President, and a very nice greeting to everyone. With today's three-day debate, it seems that we will repeat more or less what has been happening on the Committee on Finance in the direction of a little too little serious reflection and a few burkas' debates, and perhaps too much in the sense of watching black and white television. That's how it was on the board, so it's starting now, and I'm afraid we won't be able to stop for the next three days. As far as the DeSUS Group is concerned, I do not intend to put myself in the kind from which it would not be possible to see any weaknesses in both budgets, nor in such a type as to say that the budget for 2008 or the rebalancing and the budget for 2009 is completely null and void, and that it is even something that will dramatically stop us in development and cause some negative and irreparable repercussions. We believe that there has been a lack of sense of more rainbow-coloured, compromise-making, complementing what has been proposed, although a number of amendments have so far been supported on the home working body. Otherwise, in the DeSUS Group, we think that when we talk about the budget, we are talking about how to evaluate some programme with numbers in a financial way, projects. Everything we've set ourselves as targets. In the coalition, we believe that we must be led by a coalition treaty here, that we must also be guided here by some of the objectives set out in the reform programme, that we must be guided by the objectives of the Stability and Development Pact, that we must take into account some of the resolution projects that are also written down, and that we must take into account a number of other objectives, which we understand at least, in order to increase the well-being of our citizens and citizens, and also for the development of the country as such. As we think about the budget, it depends most on the political toposa, on the place to which someone stands, and on the perspective he has from that city. And we see that the budget is the same as usual in the National Assembly, that we split in half and then we talk very often past each other. We judge that it is wrong to put ourselves in the position of those who have expressed their judgments in the sense of completely uncritical apologies of what has been presented, and it is also wrong to stand in some anti-podal position, where they would say only cataclysmic judgments that have been heard so far. And so bad is this proposal for a rebalancing and budget for 2009 that a cataclysmic judgment should be expressed, it is certainly not, as these forecasts do not confirm. Of course, it has been a speech so far, and it will probably be in future, the same numbers with very different interpretations, with very different predictions, assessments and so that we do not actually hear each other's words, although it is perhaps the most important act adopted every year by the National Assembly. It should also be mentioned, by the way, that some of the criticisms forget that we have already moved away from some budget index planning and that it is project planning that individual items should therefore also be monitored in the time series and that the numbers should also be relaviated. Not every absolute number is such that we should just land on it and decide on the first judgment that comes to our mind. There is no doubt that we have all been united in our assessments so far, in the view that the macroeconomic conditions on which we are planning are very favourable. There was no hearing of those who objected. But there was a warning that in some places these favorable information is getting worse. There is probably no particular concern about political expression as to whether we were able to make good use of these favourable macroeconomic indicators and at least so far favourable trends. However, there is a very questionable claim, a third important claim on this, that under good macroeconomic conditions, the Government has wasted all real opportunities for development in such a way as to lead a completely wrong public policy, i.e. fiscal policy. This was one of the main assessments that appeared quite apodic and one of those estimates that we are leading the country against the cataclysmic situation. In order to be able to plan differently, no one is likely to doubt that. However, that planning is conditional on a political option and a perspective that the coalition has set itself, it is unlikely that there should be any doubt. And whether this option is right or not, it is not possible to see it today for all the following years. It will probably be necessary to wait to see whether the Government will be able to adapt its own individual measures as well as whether it will have to take some very dramatic responsibility for the major errors that are coming to it. If we look at some of these macro-economic or general data, we can say that years ago, thinking about how to tackle unemployment, how to increase employment rates, and today we can see that this is no longer the central theme of our thinking. The situation in this area has improved considerably, and everything shows that the trend of improvement has not yet been halted. It is only to hope that at the same time this trend will increase the rate of social well-being for the majority of Slovenes and Slovenes. The economic growth, which has been mentioned so many times today, is also relatively favourable and this indicator shows a downward trend, but probably no one has thought that this growth can be quite exponential in all the years to come. It is also probably a favourable assessment that this economic growth does not only float in the wake of favourable economic conditions in Europe and the world, but also has its own internal generators. Otherwise, it would probably not be possible that this growth is somehow above the average of that growth recorded by others, to us neighbouring, neighbouring and also distant countries and countries. The growing total gross social product, the growth of gross social product per individual, and these are also likely indicators with which we can be relatively satisfied. The budgetary deficit is decreasing, the volume of tax inflows within gross social product is decreasing, and a whole range of different other indicators are still speaking in favour of the fact that there is not such a flawed policy that the Government and the coalition are leading right now as some would like to show. Of course, it should also be mentioned that there are some weaknesses with many good indicators that cannot be overlooked. With regard to employment, at least according to the DeSUS Group's judgment, one of the weaknesses is that job flexibility has already reached or even exceeded the limit that we are still impressed with. It has to be said that most of the works have been concluded for a certain period of time, that this is not the most favourable for our demographic ambitions, nor is it the most favourable for young people to put their financial investments into purchases or the construction of durable goods; these services have a type of weakness for a certain period of time. The problem of whether planning, as the Government says, is conservative enough or not, is whether it is pro- or anti-cyclical enough, the problem of whether planning is too optimistic and possibly too tight is a political decision. At this moment, the decision is that economic growth and other favourable indicators are also being used to make material changes in Slovenia faster than in previous years. Also in the field of road construction, railway construction, construction in various areas of social activity and could be quite a list. However, it must be said that the results need to be relativised, but there is no need to evaluate them. It's the ambition of others. It is also weak, that we are very satisfied with the employment rate, but that, despite this, - although we like to boast that it is only a good 10% of our population - yet 10% at the threshold of poverty. And it would be more than 40% if we didn't have social transfers, but now they are lagging behind and there will be something else to change in this area. And that is why in the DeSUS Group we have proposed an amendment to the legislation that should be more useful to those who are socially disadvantaged. It is also bad to be overly pleased when we talk about the rise in nominal and real wages, because it is indisputable that we have 120 000 pensions below EUR 400 and that we have 240 000 of those citizens and citizens who receive salaries less than EUR 450 per month. This means that we are lagging behind because we are not going, we do not have abstract citizens, we have completely empirical, individualised citizens and citizens who get a real salary every month, or a pension, or any other income, and with which the situation as they are now - and this moment, as far as prices are concerned, is worse. This also leads to an increase in social differentiation. And let me remind you of the discussions a few years ago, the discussions on tax legislation, when we proposed some changes to DeSUS's parliamentary group in order to raise the threshold of income for the lowest incomes and to raise it for the highest; not to give up or over-compensation to those who have denationalisation obligations; not to leave individual concessions, either for the construction of apartments, or for the construction of production and other facilities. Unfortunately, we have not been heard in these initiatives, but it now appears that perhaps this would only reduce the growing social differentiation. If I try to sum up my thinking about what is good and what is bad, let me say that in the DeSUS Group we will support some of the amendments proposed by the opposition. And that does not change our position that we are determined to contribute all the votes in favour of the 2008 balance and the 2009 budget. Among other things, because international comparisons have shown that we are slightly better in all key indicators than the average of the European Union and that we are less lagging behind this average. These were our goals, and if we are approaching these goals, then we must continue on this path, but with a thorough consideration of whether we have been sufficiently aware of the weaknesses that appear and the threats that appear. However, the amendment's support should only be said to indicate that there have been some burka scenes, such as that several amendments to the opposition's original working body were voted on by no one, not even one member of the opposition; that some such amendments were supported by a single member of the coalition and were threatened by the opposition; that such amendments, where the 7-7 vote was not possible, were relatively successful, and that two members of the coalition for the amendment could not be accepted. And as before, in the DeSUS Group, we warn that our efforts to support any good proposal from the opposition are usually failed because there are no those who would support it, that they are indeed proponents. So the DeSUS Group will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u22	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Dear representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Whenever we plan for future action, we need to build on the status achieved, so in the introduction to the presentation of the positions of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to the draft budget for 2008 and 2009, I will first point to the well-known and most important indicators that explain today's good situation and trends in Slovenian public finances and thus to the achievements in the management of fiscal policy and other economic policies of this coalition. This needs to be done and also repeated because some representatives of the opposition constantly falsify the actual data, they know very well which data are accurate, relevant and relevant experts, economists in this area. And what are the achievements of the state during its current coalition? Over the last three years, the deficit in the state budget as well as the entire sector of the country at which the European Union has assessed our compliance with the Maastricht or the Stability and Growth Pact. In 2004, the country-wide deficit was 2.3% of gross domestic product in 2005, which is the first year of this coalition, which has already decreased significantly to 1.5% of GDP and in 2006 to 1.2% of GDP. This year, in 2007, according to the current estimate, which will be quite precise, given that we are approaching the end of the year, the deficit of the whole country sector will be only slightly less than 0.6% of GDP. How successful the previous coalitions have been and how successful the current coalition is can be seen from the chart you see on the screens. I would ask you, honourable Members and Members, to take a close look at this data or this picture, because obviously we are not able to convince most of us with numbers and words, perhaps this picture will be involved. Data are prepared after ESA-95, so there is no doubt about the credibility of this data; if data are good, acceptable to the EU, then I think it must be good for our internal use. We can see that between 2002 and 2004, the deficit was around 2.5% of gross domestic product and 2.3% in 2004. When this coalition, this government, began, as mentioned earlier, this deficit was reduced and decreased to 2.5% in the first year and we are expected to come even slightly below 0.6% in 2007, which is a significant reduction in terms of the previous period. The consolidated public debt of the country sector will fall to 25.6% of GDP, or EUR 8 000 490 million, or 2% of GDP, by the end of this year, since 2004 when it amounted to 27.6% of GDP, or 7000 356 million. While the nominal amount increases public debt because it increases nominally also GDP, there is nothing wrong with it, as it does not increase because of current consumption but because of investment investments. The responsibility for investment investments is, in the budgetary theory, the so-called golden rule of indebtedness and has been incorporated into its legislation by countries such as the United Kingdom, for example, the responsibility for investment investments is allowed in the country, of course, to some degree. These investments will also benefit future generations, of course, and this needs to be stressed. Even for future generations. It is important that public debt is reduced as a relative share of GDP. With this criterion, i.e. relative shares in GDP, the European Union also measures public debt in meeting the Maastricht criteria. With regard to the debt, however, it is important to note the unprofessional and intentional misappropriation of the Zares Group and the LDS Club in their proposal or call for the State to halve its debt for 2008 in its implementation law of €1.57 billion and €868.5 million in 2009. This call, by the way, was also published in one of today's business logs. And why is this a matter of deceiving? Because the ceiling on debt is a gross debt from which public debt has been repaid over the past years. Only the net level of indebtedness is important, this is to finance the annual current deficit. This, as we know, is significantly reduced to EUR 230 million or EUR 125 million in 2008 and 2009. The movement of this - or these data are also shown from the chart you have on your screens. This chart is also considered to be prepared after ESA-95, and also from this graph you can see clearly the trend from 2005 to 2007, when the responsibility for public finances was taken over by this coalition. Slovenia will thus achieve an ambitious medium-term objective in 2007 - to reduce the deficit of the whole country sector below 1% of GDP, set by the European Union to the new Member States in 2005 with a view to implementing the Stability and Growth Pact. Not only have we achieved this, but even at the same time we have exceeded the target set in the coalition contract, this is to reduce the share of total public GDP consumption by 2%. Indeed, in 2007 we will reduce the share of gross domestic product expenditure by 3%, from 46.5% in 2004, to 43.5% of GDP. It should be noted, however, that the country-level budget deficit has been reduced in the last three years while reducing the tax burden on all taxpayers. This period also saw a decrease in the share of the country's income in GDP. In 2004, the country's GDP income was 44.2%, down to 43% in 2006. So it's 1.2%. We have achieved this through a tax reform that will show its comprehensive results only in 2008. At that time, the calculation of the income tax or profit for 2007 will also be carried out. Therefore, the share of the GDP sector's revenues will continue to decrease to 42.7% in 2008 or 1.5% in total compared to 2004. The tax burden will also be reduced by the reduction of the tax on paid salaries, which is gradually decreasing and will be fully eliminated in 2009. By reducing the rates of income and their reduced progression, there are lower total taxes on wages. Under the new Income Tax Act, there will also be a relatively lower level of taxation of profits, falling from a rate of 25% gradually to 20%. In doing so, it is worth noting that some members of the opposition deceive when they point out that the taxation of profits is increasing or not decreasing and that they use the share of the tax on profits in all tax revenues as an indicator for this claim. The change in this type of taxation should be measured by an indicator of the share of the profit tax in total or in the profits of enterprises or economies. The effects of the tax reform are shown in the first nine months of 2007 in lagging behind the growth of public financial revenues for economic growth. So this coalition is abolishing and reducing taxes, which has not yet happened in this country. All this reliable data clearly proves that the government has been leading the right and careful fiscal policy for all three years. Fiscal policy has contributed to the highest economic growth in Slovenia so far, along with other economic policies and our integration into the single European market for goods and services and capital. It is true that even in the global economy, economic growth was the highest since 1999, mainly due to the development of China, India and other major markets, but the fact is that not all Member States of the European Union are as successful as Slovenia. In 2006, our economic growth was 2.7% higher than the European Union average. In the European Monetary Union, which has 13 countries, only Ireland and Luxembourg had faster or higher growth than Slovenia. In 2005, we achieved 4.1% economic growth, already 5.7% in 2006. In the first half of this year, economic growth was already 6.5%, and this economic growth is due to an ever-increasing increase in exports as well as investment investments, so we can certainly say that it is healthy. The latest data for August 2007 also show the growth of domestic industrial production and processing activities within it. Compared to last August, production of processing activities was 10.6% higher this year. Between May and August this year, exports of goods increased faster than imports, contributing to a slower growth in the current balance of payments deficits. Nominally, exports increased by 25.5% in August and imports by only 20.8. Current data also show healthy growth of the economy. The economic growth factor is therefore not State spending, as it tries to show the opposition and individual commentators in some business diaries. In 2000, government spending was measured at 19.3% of GDP and just as much in 2006 and the share was estimated at 18.8% of GDP in 2007. In Slovenia, however, the share of spending on investments, in fixed assets, both in the private sector and in the construction of transport infrastructure is growing during this period. Investments in fixed assets in the current period will, however, be the basis of new economic activities and thus economic growth in the coming years. During this coalition nearly 70,000 jobs opened up. The registered unemployment rate or registered unemployed persons was 90 728 in 2004 and 70 134 in July 2007. This means that more than 20,000 jobs have been effectively opened during this period or that unemployment has been reduced by the figures mentioned above. That is why, in the third quarter of this year, we still have the lowest unemployment rate, just 4.6%. As a result, Slovenia is already faced with shortages of workers, especially in construction and in some other processing activities, but as the UMAR notes in its last economic mirror, the increased demand for workers has not yet affected the accelerated growth of wages. By the way, the average gross salary was €1259 in September 2007 and €820 net. We can also see the rates of unemployment registration on the graph, if we consider that first period in the early 1990s due to major political, social and economic changes, we find that this decline has been moving somewhat evenly. One visible breakthrough is observed in 2005 and since 2005, as has already been shown in the figures, this unemployment is declining strongly or even more rapidly. The favourable business results in the economy and the tax burden on wage taxation had an impact on wage growth in the economy or the private sector. During the 8 months of this year, according to OMAR's latest figures in the private sector, gross wages were nominally 6.5% higher than during the same period last year, as a result of tax burdens, net wage growth in the private sector was slightly higher than 2 percentage points. In the public sector, nominal gross wage growth was 5.7% and nominal net wage growth was 7.9%. Net wages have increased in the public sector as a result of the tax burden, i.e. the introduction of higher general income relief. With all these achievements during the current government coalition, of course, we are not satisfied with the relatively high price growth in the last three months of this year. However, it must be said and repeated several times that Slovenia has not entered the euro area since 1 January 2007 without inflation or inflation at 0%, its inflation was then 3% and one percentage point higher than the euro area average, and yet we have met the conditions for entry into the European Monetary Union. This initial higher inflation was known and expected in the European Union or the European Monetary Union, as we also had 2.5 times higher economic growth than the average of the European Union at the time of entry. The European Commission and the European Central Bank therefore do not expect our country to have the same inflation as the other 12 members of the euro area. All European institutions know that after taking over the euro, Slovenia entered a period of so-called convergence or price parity with the prices of these countries, which will last for several years. Therefore, the European Union recognises Slovenia's higher inflation for the so-called Balassa-Samuelson criteria, which allow the new euro area member to have about 1 percentage point higher inflation than that generally set by the Maastricht criteria. The problem is that with domestic inflation, this criterion is also exceeded, and this has actually happened to us. The average Slovenian inflation was 2.8% in 9 months this year and 3.5% for annual inflation. According to October data, the average inflation was 4.2% and the average annual inflation was 5.1%. However, I would like to express my disagreement with what Member Milan Martin Cvikl said last week during an extraordinary meeting on the Government's trust, and he has falsely stated on television that the current inflation is twice as high as the rate of economic growth. Of course, this is not true, such misinformation or non-professional statements should not be allowed by the Member, after educating economists. By inflation, we measure the level of nominal price growth and the rate of economic growth is real, with inflation being 5.1% real and economic growth being 6.5% higher. But it is true that nominal economic growth is 11.6%. Certainly, the economist is not ashamed of his ignorance, which he is likely to gain only in order to gain from untraceable political points. A similar relative increase in inflation in September, October of this year, has also seen the euro area. So is V.D. UMAR Director explained at the Saturday session of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy that the average euro area inflation in September was 1.9% and increased to 2.6% in October and 45% respectively. In September, however, Slovenian inflation was 3.5% and rose to 5.1% in October, respectively, by 55% or 10% more than in the eurobomb. This fact shows that European inflation and Slovenian inflation have the same causes. The main factors in domestic inflation are the rise in oil prices and the rise in food prices in the global markets, which have been transferred to Europe and also to our market. Food prices in Slovenia rose by 12.3% year-on-year in October and almost half contributed to total inflation. Another important factor in our inflation is the price growth of oil derivatives in global markets. We know that the price of a barrel of oil is already approaching $100. Since food and fuel consumption in the average Slovenian citizen’s basket has a higher weight or weight gain due to lower total income than in countries with higher GDP and per capita income, the impact of increasing food and fuel prices on total inflation is also relatively higher, and consumers with lower incomes are also relatively more affected by the increase in food prices. The current relatively higher inflation is therefore not the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the contrary, according to its powers, the government has made an important contribution to managing inflation by reducing excise duties, by controlling regulated prices that have grown less than market prices and by prudent budgetary policy. As an example, we can mention the fuel excise duty that the Government has reduced to the minimum possible level that is still acceptable or permitted by the EU. Inflation has certainly also benefited from higher economic growth, which benefits society as a whole. For example, Ireland has also been known to have had relatively high inflation as one of the most rapidly developing EU Member States. However, the Irish government has therefore not artificially stopped economic growth - according to some opposition Members, the construction of roads is expected to slow down in Slovenia because it is supposed to cause the so-called 'heat economy'. Unfortunately, Slovenia does not have German roads and railways. Nor are we at this stage of development, and despite high economic growth, we cannot afford a budget surplus. The development backlog that has accumulated over the years needs to be gradually reduced and gradually reduced. On the other hand, Slovenia needs modern transport infrastructure to ensure a balanced and consistent regional development, current and future. The transport infrastructure built by the present generation will also serve the future. Therefore, in terms of the budgetary principle of intergenerational fairness, there is nothing wrong with loans to finance transport infrastructure for future generations. This better transport infrastructure will certainly ensure further economic growth, development and prosperity for future generations. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, however, we are concerned about the unjustifiable factor in the rise in food prices in our country, which is over the rise in prices which, in our opinion, are unjustifiably caused by three traders who control 80% of the Slovenian market, namely Mercator, Tuš and Spar. In recent days, it has been heard in public that pressures on suppliers or producers by the three trading chains are already unsustainable. It is not necessary for these three traders to formally agree on an increase in food margins, a problem of a silent agreement, an agreement to follow by raising the price of the biggest trader, and then the other two and then the other smaller traders follow. The problems of high food prices in Slovenia are also clearly due to the insufficient competitiveness of the food processing industry, as well as to its too large capital link with trade. It is socially irresponsible to conduct large traders and food-producing companies when they also make profits by unduly increasing the price of bread as a basic food. We can see this in the latest TV Slovenia show in Tarča, where we can see how you can negotiate and create the price of Mercator and Žito bread in an imprudent way. We can also do much to stop food prices if we are not willing to pay or buy goods with unjustifiable prices. We are also reminded of this by the Union of Consumers of Slovenia. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group expect that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to find the best solutions to prevent the consequences of the coordinated operation of traders, including through foreign experience and foreign experts, if necessary. The Office for the Protection of Competition will have to act faster and, above all, more effectively by amending legislation and staff training. This is what we expect from this office when electricity prices are expected to rise almost. Dear Members, honourable Members and all those who accompany us, the 2008 and 2009 budgets of the Republic of Slovenia are planned based on the good achievements of the three-year development of the current coalition. If we look at the 2008 budget. With regard to this budget, the biggest opposition party of the Social Democrats has called on the coalition not to accept the changes in the 2008 budget and, therefore, to remain with the already adopted budget. I will therefore, on behalf of the Group of Members, explain in particular the position on the budget relating to its amendments. So why are we in the parliamentary group supporting the proposal for a budget rebalancing? We support it because, on the basis of the changes, the initial projected deficit of the 2008 state budget will be €307 million reduced to €230 million and will be reduced from the original 0.9 GDP to 0.6% of GDP. So, to a level that will also be achieved through the implementation of the 2007 budget. And we also hope that our explanation will also be heard by the President of the Social Democrats, Borut Pahor, who recently explained that his party opposes the changes in the 2008 budget, as these changes increase the deficits, which is completely wrong. The deficit is actually shrinking. It is true that the amendments increase the nominal total amount of revenue and expenditure for 2008 by 5% in relation to the 2008 budget adopted. However, the total increase in the revenue of the state budget by €496 million and the total increase in expenditure by €420 million require the current development needs and at the same time the projected growth of GDP in 2008. GDP growth for 2008 is planned fairly conservatively. UMAR estimated real economic growth for 2008 at 4.6, while this year's growth will be estimated at 5.8% and will certainly be achieved or even higher in terms of current economic developments. According to the 2008 Economic Growth Assessment, 4.6% of OMAR took into account the October forecast of the International Monetary Fund and the European Union for global economic growth for 2008, which is 4.8, while this year's global economic growth is forecast at 5.2%. In 2007, Slovenia will actually have at least 0.4% higher economic growth than the world's, but the UMAR forecasted reverse economic growth in 2008 by 0.2 lower than the world's. Therefore, the assessment on which the proposed changes to the 2008 budget are based is conservative. If we look at the revenue and the obvious that the revenue planning in the amended 2008 budget is unrealistic, there is an increase of €193 million in revenue from the use of European funds and is inappropriate. However, Slovenia must do something, something and everything necessary and direct all efforts to use the funds available in the European budget as soon as possible in the financial perspective by 2013. As far as expenditure is concerned, the following can be found in our Group of Members. The increase of €145.5 million in goods and services, or 17.2%, is high at first sight, but given that as much as €105 million of this increase has been shown due to organisational changes in the financing and maintenance of the rail infrastructure previously recorded outside the State budget in the second State unit, this is in the agency, we see that this €105 million does not represent a real increase in the expenditure of the State sector under ESA 1995. The remaining increase in expenditure on goods and services totalling EUR 40 million relates mainly to one-off and eligible expenditure to finance the needs of the EU Presidency, the regulation of the southern and Schengen borders and the development of the EGovernment. The increase in funds for the purchase and construction of basic funds of 242 million or 60% is also the greatest result of technical changes in the demonstration of financing for the rehabilitation of railway infrastructure, namely transfers from the Agency to the Ministry of Transport. The increase in investment funds and investment transfers to businesses by 82.7% of the euro is linked to the planning, increase and use of EU funds. The planned increase of 5.5% in salaries is due to the need to ensure higher spending rights to implement a project to reduce judicial backlogs, to implement the Slovenian Army Act and to start eliminating wage imbalances in the public sector. The programme area of foreign policy and international assistance will receive 26% more funding mainly due to the needs of the Presidency of the European Union and the increased international cooperation and consular action. The programme area of administrative services and public services will receive 17% more, for the four main programmes: elimination of wage imbalances, administration information, real estate management and, as previously mentioned, the Presidency of the European Union. In the area of local self-government, there is a technical reduction of € 101 million, but this is a transfer to other budgetary programmes that show funding from European funds. In the programme, the internal affairs and security sector is increasing by €20 million or 3%, mainly due to the regulation of the southern border. In the area of justice, the funds increase by 13.4 million euros or by 6% of the judiciary with the aim of speeding up judicial backlogs. In the programming area, agriculture, the economy and fisheries are increasing by 25%, providing additional resources for the implementation of rural development programme measures and direct payments in agriculture during the new financial perspective. In the area of transport infrastructure, funds are increasing by 40%, with an increase mainly due to the previously mentioned organisational changes in the financing of rail infrastructure. And in the programming area, the economy is increasing by €32 million or 23%, thus earmarking €177 million in this budget area to promote entrepreneurial activities and promote and promote tourism. In the area of environmental protection, the funds are falling by €67 million due to the change in the arrangements for co-financing of the environmental municipal structure, namely the return to the system that was in force until 1.1.2007. In the programme area of health care, €10 million is more than or 13% devoted to investment in health care. In the area of culture, education, NGOs, 8.1% more funding is provided. The funds increase mainly for the preservation of cultural heritage, as well as for investments in culture such as SNG Opera, Modern Gallery, Metelkova and so on. In the field of education, resources are also increasing and will be shared in 2008, 17.6% of all budget expenditure. In the area of social protection, the funds increase by 6.3%, and the increase is mainly necessary for the payment of parental compensation resulting from the needs of implementation in 2007. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the 2008 budget changes because we believe they are justified. At the same time, as we know that there is always something that can be saved with greater cost-effectiveness and efficiency, we expect ministries and other direct and indirect budget consumers to seek additional savings and thus to further effectively reduce total public spending. And if I look briefly at the 2009 budget, the supplementary proposal, it is prepared on the basis of the last macroeconomic baselines of the 2008 and 2009 budget memorandum. Real growth of the social product or economy is planned for 2009 at 4.3%. On this basis, almost 9 billion revenue and 9.1 billion expenditure are planned in the 2009 budget. The 2009 budget revenue thus decreases by 0.6% of the GDP point compared to the 2008 draft amending budget, while budget expenditure decreases by 1% of the GDP. The 2009 budget deficit is planned at only EUR 125 million or 0.3% of GDP, which means that it is planned to be 50% lower than envisaged in the 2008 balance sheet. The country's consolidated public financial deficit is expected to amount to € 125 million and 0.3% of GDP in 2009. As far as income is concerned, the overall tax revenue is projected to increase by 4.1% in 2009 and around this level of growth. However, it is clear today that the second year will require changes in the tax revenue plan in order to implement the Constitutional Court decision in the field of regulation, financing of local self-government. Total expenditure growth is projected at 2.8% in 2009, which is significantly lower than income growth and lower than GDP growth in 2008. Therefore, the 2009 budget is prepared in a cost-effective manner. Within these total expenditure or expenditure, a significant increase in expenditure is planned for the programme area of science and development in the total amount of €313 million, which is 18.9% higher compared to 2008. The share of these expenditure will be 0.81% of GDP, thus increasing the funding for science and technological development coalition by 91% compared to 2004. For education, 4.6% more resources will be allocated for 2009 according to 2008. Budget expenditure on employment and unemployment is planned to be 4 percentage points lower than in 2008, but not because they would be saving in this area, but because the reduction in unemployment rates also reduces these needs. Social protection programmes will be allocated 1% more in 2009, which certainly does not mean a relative reduction in current rights for socially disadvantaged people. A smaller increase from the average is envisaged due to the reduction in the number of persons needed for such assistance. The apparent reduction in expenditure is foreseen for 2009 in relation to 2008 in the programme area of local self-government, but only because of the technically modified way in which expenditure is expressed for transport infrastructure, housing, environmental protection at local level, the funds remain for the municipalities, but are shown in programmes that express the purpose or content of consumption. For the programme area, agriculture, forestry and nutrition remain budgetary resources for 2009 at almost the same level as in 2008, with relatively high resources allocated in 2008 in line with the EU's single agricultural policy. In 2009, expenditure in relation to 2008 is reduced in the area of internal affairs due to completed investments and investments in the southern border. In the light of all that is stated in the Group of Members, we believe that the 2009 budget is in line with the real possibilities and with savings and development, so we will accept it. So, once again, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will support the 2008 budget rebalancing and the 2009 budget, despite some criticisms, despite some of the dark-eyed forecasts that have been expressed, but we are already used to it. None of the things that had been predicted had come true, there was no need to raise VAT, there was no collapse of the pension register when we began to reconcile pensions with wage increases, and many other black-sighted forecasts had not been fulfilled. Therefore, we believe that this budget, as it is, ensures the stable functioning of the country over the next two years, so, as has already been said, we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Milan Squeakl on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Citizens and citizens. Members and Members of Parliament. Government representatives. The state-level debate on government proposals for state budgets and economic policy, as reflected in them, is primarily an opportunity to discuss the effectiveness of past and the relevance of proposed government policies. Government policies have been discussed by the President of the Government for this speaker in the past two weeks. First on October 12th and then again, Mr President of the Government - last Monday, when he explained how government policy must be supported, if it is a good policy, only the opposition, the media are maligning it abroad, misrepresenting it at home and abroad. He talked about this today, for the second time, the Minister of Finance and colleagues before me have tried to explain how well we are doing. In the Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that the Government has initially destabilised Slovenia, created a national economic imbalance, as officially confirmed by the Bank of Slovenia in the price stability report, and now the Government is not responding adequately to these problems - so we oppose the policies presented. What citizens and citizens think about what you think about government policies is what citizens and citizens have said - both at the referendum and at the demonstrations last Saturday. Obviously, the government has not heard that each of the effects of bad politics is felt in its own pocket when it pays more and more expensive food. It is a fact, and this cannot be denied that in the last year, October per October, food and non-alcoholic beverages have been boosted by 13.3%, which is 4 times the average of the countries of the euro area. And that, of course, is twice as much as we have economic growth. Communal services are on the move, and the bills are getting more expensive. There's no way to solve this problem, if that's the outside cause. If they were external causes, they'd have a rise in food prices today, maybe five, not 13%. This is why inflation is a fundamental economic and political issue this fall and the current government has no answer. If the Government were aware of the seriousness of the problem and correctly understood the causes of inflation, there would be a different draft budget, it would propose an anti-inflationary austerity draft budget. However, the government estimates that if the increase in budget expenditure in 2007 is 4%, compared to 2006, and we have an average of 1.5% inflation, then it is entirely okay for them not to increase their expenditure by 6% in 2008, as in the 2008 budget, but by 11.3%. This is a wrong proposal - completely different from what needs to be done now. That is why only rejecting the 2008 draft amending budget - today we accept the changes in the budget, Mr Hvauc has made a mistake, the rebalancing can be accepted in the next half of the year - merely rejecting the 2008 draft amending budget could help to halt inflation trends. Their acceptance and increase in public spending, including the amendments you confirmed on Saturday, will only increase inflation. Due to the national economic imbalance created by the Government of Janez Janša and the Government's inadequate response, the Group of Social Democrats cannot and will not support the changes to the 2008 budget and not the updated draft budget for 2009. The reasons are therefore substantive and not merely political. It is a matter of national economic balance and we have differences about the types of individual policies. In doing so, it is particularly important to be aware of the responsibility of the domestic and foreign public at a time after the euro has been taken over. When we took over the euro on 1 January 2007, the only policy that remains in each country is fiscal policy, which should therefore be cost-effective, and with the high economic growth that you are boasting, should have a surplus of public finances. Only a restrictive anti-inflation budget policy can prevent spirals that happen: higher prices, pressure on higher wages, higher prices, falling competitiveness and therefore reduced production, employment in an export-oriented economy. This is a warning from both domestic economists and the European Commission in the economic forecast of this autumn. At a given rate of the euro, and in particular in strengthening the value of the euro in foreign markets, only a austerity fiscal policy, at the interest rates set by the European Central Bank, can maintain the competitiveness of the Slovenian export economy. And only this is the basis of long-term high economic growth and, consequently, if we have governments that advocate a just society, prosperity for all. This is what Mr Almuni reminds our Minister for Finance, and he obviously does not hear or understand. This is what they tell us from the top of the European Central Bank. This is pointed out by the domestic central bank in the price stability report, that is, if you want, our assessment of the situation as a basis for the preparation of an alternative government programme. In today's interview for Finance, the governor of Dr. Marko Kranjc also speaks about this. National economically, we view the 2008 budget changes as completely unnecessary and harmful to the country and to the welfare of the individual. Instead of allowing the Minister of Finance and the President of the Government to ease inflation and implement the 2008 budget already adopted, which envisions approximately 6% higher growth compared to 2007, here today, they are proposing and apparently the coalition has decided to adopt an extensive inflation budget. This year's 4% increase in expenditure, on average 5.1% in inflation, 13.3% in price. The second year is three times the increase in government budget expenditure, so you can imagine what will be the growth in average inflation and in particular the rise in prices next year. The government is therefore acting pro-inflationary, pro-cyclical and contrary to the need to pardon the underlying economic problem, that is, inflation. Just three weeks ago, the Social Democrats called on the Government to consider modifying the budget due to changed national economic circumstances, thus withdrawing it from the procedure. The answers were misleading, in style, as you warn us, we already know. I hope that now that you have been officially alerted by the European Commission, the European Central Bank, you will not again say that the opposition is the one who is profaning the country. No, Mr President of the Government, it is in the interests of the State that the Government should imagine and perhaps correct its summer mistake while you were still living in the illusion of high economic growth. Today it is clear that the results are poor - and I am not referring to the results of the elections for the President of the country; no, the results are poor because we have inflation because we have a rise in food prices that is twice as high as economic growth. However, if you do not like this comparison, explain to me the 13.3% increase in food prices, 5% increase in wages, 2% increase in pensions and zero growth in social assistance for pensioners and everyone else, since from January 2006 to November 2007, that is 23 months, these social assistance has not been raised. People at 13.3% increase in prices without rising social assistance are running out of money to buy food for one day a week. In panic and despair, however, the government is buying elections for 2008 and is likely to be proposing almost once more, a 11.3% increase in the expenditure of the state budget. Is that why you accepted 41 additions to the coalition on Saturday? Obviously, it is all right to continue in billions of measured debt to Darsa and the former Development Fund, which intends to make over 200 million euros of investment in, if you want, the courtrooms, the ministerial offices and so on. Minister of Finance, this is not the right policy for the custodian of public finances! However, if we look at the details of these documents, it is particularly disputed that at 11.3% of the overall expenditure growth we have a fifth, 20% increase in material costs and that we have a 35% increase in investment expenditure when construction capacity is fully occupied. And what happens? If you have 35% more money and the capacity is full, then the prices for the long km of roads, motorways, square meters of business spaces will increase by this 35%. It's called irritations, new annexes to the Kentucky tunnel, pediatric clinic, and so on. On a completely different level, we have raised the prices of a square meter of any construction product, which will have a long-term impact on major public financial problems. It is true that the 2008 budget changes do not take into account VAT increases. However, gentlemen, you are the only government I know that already feels the consequences of the negative effect of raising VAT, which is rising prices without VAT being raised at all. Therefore, you will, of course, register yourself as one of the governments that had an impact on raising prices without VAT. However, the answer to the price rise is in the public financial movements. The excise duty, after you fixed it, rose 18.8% first. It's anyone who can and, if possible, with a guarantee of the state. And, of course, we have as a consequence an increase in the non-competitive economy. The national economic balance has obviously been shifted, so we're saying that we've come into an impossible situation. In 2007, after all promises of relief, the tax burden, taxes and revenues of 38.17, estimated for 2007, were identically criticised in 2004, which was 38.28. This is what they are talking about in the budget memorandum. The reason is, of course, 58% of corporate income tax growth in 2006 and excise revenue growth, but it is particularly disputed that for 2008 and 2009, you have high income growth mainly on the basis of municipal income. As the tax burden increases, it accelerates and does not ease the growth of government consumption. The government promotes debt policy, which leads to the classic inflation spiral: higher prices, higher wages, lower employment, and, for the first time in Slovenia alone, balance of payments. If we had a situation in 2002 where each of us exported more €1,500 than it imported, and on average between 1992 and 2003, the surplus of the balance of payments of €1,000 was projected at each of us, a catastrophic €1.1 billion deficit is forecast in 2007. This means that each of us spends more €5,500 than we produce. But if we translate this into employees themselves, then today the employees, if they once created 3,000 euros - once the period is 1992-2003 - today the employees create 17,000 euros less than they spend. This is a balance sheet unsustainable and inflation is simply the first sign of this incontinence. There will be an even greater financial and balance-sheet crisis, all depending on the maturity of the policy. Payments and other deficits are, of course, covered by debts, but today borrowed, it will be necessary to pay back tomorrow. And this high debt will become the burden of our children and their children. How, therefore, should we appreciate or appreciate the policy of the current Government and the current results if the final impact of these results is that in the three years of the mandate of this Government, from December 2004 to August 2007, the gross external debt of the Republic of Slovenia has increased by 100%. From €15.4 billion to more than €30.8 billion at the end of August 2007. This is, of course, an Argentine story. And Argentine stories are not to be passed on to Slovenia. This is a bad policy, and because of such a policy, only a freed-up debt has been left. We cannot and will not support such a freed public financial and financial policy in the Group of Social Democrats. At the same time, we reject those substantive changes that were introduced during the reign of the Janša government, which show and reflect the philosophy of this government. When you look at either the proportions of the budget or the rate of growth, then you will see that more is earmarked for defence, material costs and this is at the expense of reducing funds for education, social transfers, and paradoxically, even pensions are subject to less state money. To put it simply, the government has decided to spend more and to save schoolchildren in public institutions, recipients of social transfers and in 2008 and 2009 and in particular municipalities. This is best seen in changing the share of gross domestic product for individual programming expenditure of the state budget. However, if we compare 2004 and 2008, then the fundamental feature is that in 2008 we have almost half a percent of GDP or more than 120 million euros of money for defence in the Republic of Slovenia, this share is almost 1.59, which means that we will spend more than 120 million euros on financing in the past - what? - the disputed purchase of Patricia with intermediaries? Wouldn't it be better to spend more money on development, on education? It is also increasing money for agriculture, which is consistent with the commitments made at the time of entry into the European Union, but it is not clear whether there is more to rural development in the internal structure, especially now that the rise in food prices in global markets should lead to a change in the structure of European agricultural policies. Last but not least, there is a significant increase in the costs of administration, protocol associations, when almost a fifth of GDP or €60 million increase in material costs. What's the problem? The problem is that the government does not finance these increases by reducing other expenditure, but by reducing primary and secondary education money by half a percent of GDP or by almost 150 million euros and reducing schooling aid. Does the Government really believe that the less educated will compete with global economic trends, or does the Government think that if it does not fear another referendum, private schools will compensate for the loss of public funds? It was obviously right that we did not reject the veto of the State Council, because in an ever smaller amount of common funds and in order to increase money for church schools, public schools would receive even less money. According to government data, with Beast and Zupan's financial policy, public school and public universities will become poor as church mice. Another time. The government is funding more money for defence, for material costs by reducing social security funds. More than €150 million, relative to 2004, is reducing the amount of social assistance resources, with up to 10,000 120,000 and more pensioners in difficulties to survive in a month. It is incomprehensible that the Government does not respond to the proposal for legislation, as proposed by DeSUS as a coalition party, because it is likely necessary to amend the provisions of this law. Let me remind you, social benefits, compensation for pension recipients due to the law have not increased since January 2006, i.e. 23 months. Third time. The government spends more money on defence and is also financed for material costs by reducing the funds of transfers to the pension fund. This transfer, compared to 2004, is below €150 million. If we have more than 120,000 pensioners today who do not have substantially higher pensions than EUR 400, and given the 13.3% increase in the price of non-alcoholic beverages, these people now have only EUR 350, 348. But because of Janša's Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers, these have not been harmonised for 23 months. You will say that pensions rose by 2% in November - indeed, but on the same day, gasoline also increased by 2%, and new electricity prices are expected. We had 18% increase in excise duties. If we convert these 350 euros, people today have less than 84 old euros to live on. No wonder there were so many people at the demonstrations. What do you do? What do we suggest that you don't say that we're just criticizing? Since these are not healthy savings budgets, as most development projects are financed by high indebtedness, untransparent and contrary to the principles of a good economy, we believe that, for the first time, the Minister of Finance and the First Minister should withdraw from the 2008 National Assembly, which by 11.3% increase spending. Secondly: The government should take seriously the proposal of Coalition DeSUS on the necessity of a correction on the coordination of social transfers. Thirdly, in order to address the problem brought to the attention of people in peaceful Saturday demonstrations, and today at a very clear statement by customs officials, the Government, employers and employees should agree on a different wage policy. However, the wage policy, which is limited to the competitiveness of the economy, cannot be changed unless the Government proposes changes in the rates for the lowest income class. It is therefore necessary to save. The government is not saving, the government is maintaining the same level, so obviously there will be no agreement. Will inflation problems be solved on the road, at border crossings, by demonstrations in front of the National Assembly?Oh, my God! Of course, the Government and the Ministry of the Economy should also go into the margin problem and everything that has happened, but gentlemen, after Mr Janez Janša at the famous meeting sold Mercator to suppliers, it is very strange that you are surprised at what is happening to the margins. Why are we drawing attention to the measures outlined and proposed above? Because, of course, both the European Union and domestic experts point out that Slovenia's fundamental public concern is the following: we have a significant deterioration in long-term public financial sustainability, we have a procyclical spending of the country and we have a lack of strengthening competitiveness in the non-minor sector. We should discuss all of this in Parliament, but obviously there is no great will on the part of the President of the Government. He spoke for two hours last week about the media, but he cannot explain in fifteen minutes what he will do in the remainder of his term to reduce inflation. The fact that the President of the Government says that he would leave and that he cannot, because he is supposed to preside, of course, is not the answer to the real dilemmas. Today, the President of the Government is not even in Parliament. Is he tired? Is he sick? If we conclude, we call on the Government and the coalition to act counter-cyclically even if you are going to do so for the last year of your term, it is only right to act counter-cyclically to act anti-inflationaryly. So the government should contribute to rational savings and limit its high self-consumption. The government should withdraw the 2008 draft amending budget, which it has drawn up on the wrong assumptions of low inflation and high growth. The government should work to stop inflation growth, but not in the way that you can read in newspapers - today this is happening in Germany, where 700 public kitchens have been opened, or as Putin does, which closes the opposition and freezes food prices, resulting in a shortage of food. The government still has an opportunity to increase prosperity for everyone and not just for some. Three weeks ago, we made this clear at a press conference. The government has not responded, the government has even said, I quote the Ministry of Finance: "The MEPs have the right to propose an additional reduction in expenditure in terms of economic policy, to propose such amendments, and the Ministry and Government will examine the amendments tabled with all due care." Today we have heard that the government has not even formally addressed the amendments, let alone with the necessary care. And of course, the Minister of Finance knows well that the creation of amendments in the way he proposed, by reducing expenditure, is possible only by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Well, the government is misinterpreting what should be done. Whether the government will withdraw, I don't know. However, I know that if you continue to create this inflationary and economic crisis, this will, of course, be resolved on the road with sentences of all kinds, including today's strike at the border crossing. Is this the kind of policy the coalition wants during the presidency? The budgets for 2005, 2006, 2007 and the 2008 and 2009 proposals are poor budgets. Poor budgets are because the government has not taken advantage of a single opportunity of relatively high economic growth, because of the single impact when it joins the European Union and, of course, by saving, it would provide a surplus of public finances. With higher taxes, higher taxes on income from legal persons, higher excise duties and, of course, higher income for the country, the government also closed budgets for 2008, 2009. All of this is also financed by the abolition of housing and other benefits for 100,000 citizens and citizens. The government in its budgets primarily finances repressive authorities, the construction of protocol facilities, defences. And with budgets, the government has established a fundamental injustice because, with restrictions in 2007, it financed a tax gift to the few richest. And it is no wonder that this handful of the richest now wants to take over forever in Slovenia and create a relationship between wage earners and capital as a fundamental model of development. Mr Polanec says that managers who take over businesses can have major problems with their reputation in the Slovenian public, as inequality among people is not popular. I'm just saying, managers behave rationally for themselves. The one who's irrational here is the government, of course, are supervisors. And of course, what will be the result of these acquisitions? We're going to lose about 1.1 - 1.2 billion, that's almost 3-4% of the gross domestic revenue product of the state budget, that's one-eighth of the revenue, and I'm asking you how we're going to create and finance public schools, public health. With the budgets, the Government does not provide development funding, because, of course, the Minister of Finance initially said: "No problem, world markets are good, we can be indebted." And that's not a problem, it's made of 15, 30 billion gross external debt. This, of course, means, instead of EUR 750 million interest at 5%, at about 5% interest rates, not more than 750, but as much as EUR 1500 million, a billion and a half euros to service interest. Finally, the Government has drawn up a 2008 and 2009 budget with the assumption that a fiction will take place in the European part of the budget. It is not clear how the Government can provide for a doubling of the European Union's spending on ca. More than €810 million, when it is clear that it is possible to have between €500 million and €600 million on average at the annual level - we have received little less than €5 billion for so many and so many years - and how, of course, the Government is particularly innovative and, instead of the average, about €120 million of the large surplus that we agreed on in 2005 foresees a 400 million euro surplus in 2008 and 2009. Why does it need this surplus in relation to the EU? Because, of course, it is necessary to hide high irrational spending on other points. And, of course, it's pure fiction. This, unfortunately, confirms the data for the nine months of this year. On October 10, Janez Janša and Minister Bajuk had this information. On October 12th, fiction was still being discussed here. If we have adopted the 2007 budget with the assumption that we will have 246 million euro in surplus, we have created 46 million euro in nine months. The difference is 15 GDP more minus. Are we going to be responsible for this in the opposition? Is that what the media is guilty of? The government has launched its mandate with major reform forecasts, ending with the loss of tax money. He's buying elections for 2008 for the sake of maintaining power with philosophy: "Let it cost him what he wants. We will also abuse inflation only to remain in power." But from this mandate there are no reforms, no innovative companies, the current coalition has no answers to the development needs of Slovenia. The EU Presidency in the country dealing with these problems will therefore unfortunately not be of a substantive nature. It will only be protocol and financially difficult. There is a serious dilemma: whether Slovenia should be a space of protocol events, a space of expensive chairs or a space of good masters and entrepreneurial incentives. The budget proposals, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, unfortunately show that the time for changes, changes to different policies, a policy that will reduce inflation, which will ensure a renational economic balance in Slovenia. This is also what the European Commission's economic forecasts are talking about. And today there were a lot of pictures of how everything was doing. Let me just say two, the images shown do not show that the volume of public debt guaranteed by the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia has increased from around 8% to over 10% of GDP. These images do not show that we have a high gross increase in external debt. And these images do not show what the European Commission says alone. The data, which is important, is called a cyclically adjusted budget. And this, gentlemen from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is increasing significantly in the year when we are supposed to be dealing with inflation reduction. If it was already in 2005 - 0.8, it will be 2008 - 1.4, both as announced by the European Commission and apparently according to data from the Ministry of Finance, if you look closely at your own analyses. And because the government says that if anyone critically warns that they are doing bad for Slovenia, I suggest that the Government look again at the European Commission, the Central Bank, and consider whether its policy with the proposed budget for 2008 is indeed anti-inflationary. The increase in government budget expenditure in 2008 will be 3 times higher than the government estimated for 2007. This is not an anti-inflation policy, it is a policy of'staying in power at all costs', but even if this is why people cannot come with money by the end of the week. Thank you very much. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will not support the proposal for amending the budget and the updated draft amending the budget for 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Friday has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u26	Nice greetings to colleagues, colleagues, the President, Minister Bajuk, who remains with the ever-increasing secretarial assembly, no longer to the ministerial assembly, except the bright exception of Mr Žagar, who remains between us and I think is also aware of the consequences of the adoption of these two budgets. All the concerns raised so far about amending the 2008 budget and the 2009 budget, expressed publicly by opposition Members, including members of the LDS, and to a large extent also by the professional public, have apparently come across the deaf ears of the government and the coalition. We therefore have budgets which do not enjoy the support of the LDS. For the government insists stubbornly on increasing the 2008 budget's revenue by almost EUR 500 million and does not reduce public spending and more courageously affect the budget deficit in 2009. For 2008, we still understand this in the opposition, as it is obvious that the Government will try various projects and interventions at various local infrastructure and other facilities in the electoral year in this way to win the votes of voters. For 2009, for which no one can guarantee that she will still rule in Slovenia, this irresponsible action is even more incomprehensible. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we are not prepared to support the 2008 budget changes and the 2009 supplementary budget, so we will vote against it. In the LDS, we believe that instead of adopting the proposed changes to the budget by increasing revenue, not 1.1.2009, as envisaged in the implementation of these budgetary provisions, the Government should immediately abolish the tax on paid salaries, i.e. not 1.1.2009, and also seriously consider reducing the VAT rate from 8.5% to 5%, reducing the price of food and other products taxed at a lower VAT rate and which also affect the most socially disadvantaged population. The reduction in VAT would also reduce expenditure for the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance due to the reduction in the price of medicines in the structure of the budget. The decommissioning of VAT and the abolition of taxes on paid salaries do not have to be covered if they retain the amount of public financial expenditure under the initial draft budget for 2008. Banka Slovenije's price stability reports clearly confirm the calculations that reduced rates of tax on paid wages reduce the costs of companies and thus inflationary pressures, which the government obviously does not pay serious attention to. We are therefore convinced that the immediate abolition of the tax on paid salaries is one of the serious fiscal measures that the Government should take immediately. This is why the National Assembly should already reject the draft budget for 2008, a budget that does not necessarily increase the budgetary and public financial deficit or at least does not significantly reduce it. The increase in the deficit of such economic growth and such employment only increases inflation pressure and further overheats the economy and public spending in 2008 actually rises more than the gross social product, which is the highest growth of government expenditure under the government's mandate. The government obviously runs a pro-cyclical fiscal policy with the 2008 budget, which will increase the public financial deficit. If the coalition adopts the proposed budget, this way inflation will not be reduced in 2008 and 2009 but will be higher than the convergence criteria allow. The competitiveness of the Slovenian economy in international markets will, of course, also be compromised. Why is it necessary for us in Slovenia to copy the Portuguese model leading to loss of competitiveness, low economic growth, unemployment, higher public financial deficits and debt? Banka Slovenije noted in its price stability report that current economic movements are moving away from macroeconomic balance. The Bank of Slovenia also proposed how fiscal policy should work. They explained that fiscal policy can, by reducing the structural deficit, have an impact on stopping demand and thus affect price cuts. On the contrary, the government has not published the calculation of structural deficits in the budget memorandum, but the European Commission has clearly presented in its autumn report the structural deficit. Data show that the structural deficit in 2005 was 0.8 GDP, in 2006 and 2007 1.1% of GDP. And if such a budget as we have on the tables today is adopted, the structural deficit for 2008 will be increased to 1.45 GDP and in 2009 it will remain at 1% of GDP unless, of course, a province whose introduction will undoubtedly increase the structural deficit. We can see from this data that only the 2005 budget was anti-inflationary, of course thanks to another government, not this one. The inflation pressure has already increased the 2006 budget. The 2007 budget seemed to be visibly neutral, but together with Dars' debt, it is very inflationary. Under the 2008 budget, the highest inflation pressure will also be due to the functioning of this government's budgetary policy in 2008. Although the 2009 budget is slightly improving the structural deficit, it is not enough, according to our opinion. Whether the coalition and the government only think to listen to the warnings of Commissioner Almunia, the Italian Governor and the Executive Board of the European Central Bank Smahija and, of course, the warnings of the Bank of Slovenia and many Slovenian financial experts. When we vote on the 2008 budget, we will see whether the coalition will act for the welfare of Slovenia, or whether it will choose, obviously, for the darling of Slovenia. Perhaps the government is counting that in the electoral year with Slovenian fiscal policy it is better to create an accelerated conjuktura and opposition, which could in the year show all the latest data, in 2009 took over power, leave any occupation with recession. However, it is clear that this Government is deaf to the warnings of the European Commission, the Bank of Slovenia, the European Central Bank and economic experts, such as Mitja Gaspari, Jože Mencinger, Max Tynikar, Ivan Ribnikar, Mojmir Dark, Dušan Maramor, the former President of the Janšev Strategic Council for Economic Development, Marjan Senjur, and last but not least the opposition in this National Assembly. They are all, or we are, of the same opinion that the government should act countercyclically and restrictively, and the government is acting the other way around. The government acts pro-cyclically and exponentially, causing inflation. The Government, when adopting the UMAR calculations, is in fact abandoning the fight against inflation, since it takes into account or plans higher government revenues and higher public financial revenues and higher public financial expenditure. Unfortunately, we will not meet the Stability and Growth Pact within this Government's mandate. In a phase of favourable economic growth, a deficit that is not in line with the medium-term fiscal objective should be improved by more than 0.5% per annum, in particular this point annually until the target is achieved. With us, the government has set it at an unambitious minus 1% cyclically adjusted structural deficit by the end of 2009. It is said that only the next Government will meet the minimum condition for meeting the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we regret that in good times, at a time of high economic growth, the Government did not create adequate stocks, of course simplified, for the coming bad times that are obviously coming, as it is expected to dry economic growth. It is clear that government reforms did not contribute to a long-term growth of more than 5%, as the analysis shows that economic growth was only high in 2006 and 2007 due to the conjuncture and intensive investment consumption in Slovenia. The government's operation, however, has led to an increase in inflation, which means that government fiscal policy can lead us even to stagflation, which is low economic growth and high inflation. Unfortunately, in this mandate, government policy has tended to create deficits and nominal increases in debt and off-budget financing for Dars, thereby increasing guarantees. As a result, it is a legitimate fear that Dars will become illiquid and banks will cash in guarantees or that future governments will have to replace the necessary funds to pay credits with higher tolls or higher charges. Therefore, in the LDS, we believe that fiscal effort in the current economic situation is not sufficient. They shall also take into account or anticipate a 100% drawback of the European Union's public funding budget and balance sheet. It is clear from the comparison of realisations in previous years that 100% of the pumping is never and will never be achieved, and therefore also the European Union's revenues are to a large extent unrealistically planned. On the basis of the implementation of the state budget by September 2007, we are currently a net payer in the European Union of EUR 46.3 million, as we have invested EUR 246 million 117 000 in the budget, and have received funds of EUR 199 million. As a result, there is a real risk of an increase in the public financial deficit and a lack of resources in key areas of budget spending. The LDS has tabled amendments to specific works in the budget for 2008 and 2009 to which the effects of inflation on individuals would be slightly mitigated. That is why we have also proposed amendments in the area of social protection, which are materially threatened, as we estimate that inflation will increase the risk of poverty. We have also tabled amendments for investments in hospital health since the increased unforeseeable and prolonged use of funds for the construction of the Paediatric Clinic and the Oncology Institute does not allow the timely implementation of the necessary investments in hospitals in Maribor, Celje, Slovenia Grade and others. The important amendments for 2008 and 2009 have been tabled for the implementation of the law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work, because the government is also reducing funds here to address the consequences of asbestos work compared to the 2004 level of funds. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, From the 2000 budget change, we see that the Government has even reduced the funds for intervention programmes and the obligation to address the consequences of natural disasters, as it reduces the resources available to remedy the consequences of natural disasters and the financial reserve for carrying out unforeseen tasks and tasks for which the funds envisaged would not possibly be sufficient to carry them out. The proposal for amending the 2008 budget is lower in this area than the adopted 2008 budget by €21 million. In the LDS, we are surprised at the reduction in funding for intervention programmes and commitments because of the increasing frequency of interventions, which is particularly significant for 2007. The government also increases the expenditure on goods and services by €145 million, or 17.2%, on budget changes in 2008 budget. Is it really necessary for such a large percentage to increase the cost of goods and services at this rate of inflation that we are recording today? Is it really not possible to reduce the use of these funds, to re-examine possible rationalisation, and thus prove that he is serious about his actions? The government in the 2009 budget reduces local self-government funds by 3% according to the amended 2008 budget. When it so loudly highlights how local governments, that is, municipalities, devote a greater share of resources each year and how it strengthens their autonomy, the figures show exactly the opposite. We believe that soon those congregations that are now content with the minimal effects of the new unconstitutional law on the financing of municipalities will be aware of this. In doing so, let me ask the Government where and how, or how, in the 2008 or 2009 budget, she planned the funds that she will have to pay to the Ljubljana City Municipality, which, according to our opinion, are not available in these budgets? Members of the LDS have no doubt that the Municipality of Ljubljana will enforce this application in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the 2008 budget should take this decision or this request to the municipality of Ljubljana into account. The budget also disputes the reduction in active employment policy funds from 1.27% of gross social product in 2008 to 1.14% of gross social product in 2009 and from 112 million euros in 2008 to 103 million in 2009. The government is clearly overestimating its achievements in the field of employment. It is true that the unemployment rate is declining, but the problem of a large group of more difficult and turbulent developments in the global market, which also exacerbates the operating conditions of some Slovenian economic sectors, does not guarantee that the need for the active role of the country will not be large again. It is also clear that the amendments of the coalition Members will reduce funds for technological development in the field of defence, which will, of course, reduce the share of resources for science and technological development in gross social product. With regard to the direction of the budget, let us mention that it was clearly not in this mandate to carry out reforms of public spending and of the planned budget. The increase in resources in the budget is based solely on indexation without any cost-benefit analysis, and the Government has failed to reduce public spending by 2% of gross social product, as demonstrated by its analysis, since, due to high nominal economic growth, the government's public spending in this mandate has indeed been lagging behind gross social product growth by only 0.47% according to the national methodology. It is clear that these budgets are still the last act of the Government, which obviously does not count on the renewal of the mandate and by its actions in the long term damages the macroeconomic situation that will have to be addressed by the following governments. At the end of the presentation of the LDS Group's position, let me also express my resentment at the consideration of the amendments for both the 2008 and 2009 financial year. The coalition has accepted only three modest amendments of the opposition to the 2009 budget and has consistently rejected all other amendments of the opposition and, clearly, only accepted amendments of the coalition MPs. In doing so, however, the coalition Members have already fulfilled their expectations in most cases before both budgets have come to the Committee on Finance. In doing so, as a payment for a vote on behalf of the Government, several amendments have also been able to defeat a Member of the Nationalities Communities. The consideration of the budget and amendments by the Finance Committee of the National Assembly is becoming a farce and is merely a business cover, instead of a genuine democratic debate to be provided by the National Assembly or the Transitional Committee on Finance. Unfortunately, the opposition cannot put an end to such budgets; it can clearly only raise a strong awareness of all the anomalies and therefore all the responsibility for the deterioration of the economic climate in this coalition, which will adopt such changes to the 2008 budget and such a budget for 2009. For all the reasons mentioned above, the LDS Members will therefore vote against the adoption of both budgets.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u28	Nice greeting, Mr President, ministers with co-workers, MEPs and Members. Members of the New Slovenia Group understand budget decision-making as one of the most important tasks of Members of the National Assembly. The responsibility we have towards citizens is reflected through the setting of priorities or the allocation of funds for individual purposes. In the New Slovenia Group, we have advocated and supported such a draft budget throughout all stages of budget adoption, which will ensure the most efficient and cost-effective allocation of limited budgetary resources. In the New Slovenia Group, we expect the proposed budgets to ensure the smooth development of society and the economy. We believe that we are looking ahead to draft budgets that will support the stability of the country and allow us to continue the well-established development cycle. When we expressed our support for the 2008 updated draft budget in the New Slovenia Group last year, we stressed that the proposal is designed to ensure greater economic growth and competitiveness while improving the quality of public finances. We have strongly rejected all indications that the document will not withstand pressure and the public financial deficit will increase. In the New Slovenia Group, we also opposed the suggestion that there would be an increase in the value added tax rate. Today, we see that the VAT rate has remained unchanged and the effects of tax reform are reflected in many areas: economic vigor, increased investment in fixed assets, changed structures of income sources and elsewhere. The budget proposal preserves the objectives set, while actually improving the public financial picture. Public spending has never been so low in the history of our country. When public financial revenues are reduced, the share of public financial expenditure also decreases. In figures, this means that the country's income is reduced by 1.5% of GDP in 2009 by 41.5% of GDP or 15 billion 986 million euros, the reduction in the country's expenditure is expressed by 1.5% of GDP and represents 42.1% of GDP in 2009 or 16 billion 207 million euros. As a result of tax reform, taxpayers pay relatively less in public finance, while spending both the state budget and the whole country sector is declining. If the projections in the 2008 draft budget provided for 0.91% of the budget deficit, this is reduced by almost 0.6% of GDP in the 2008 and 2009 rebalancing and draft budgets. The same is true for the country sector where the deficit is decreasing according to both national and international calculations. And not only in terms of the planned, but also in terms of the objectives set out in the Stability Pact programme. The Stability Programme was presented by Slovenia as a new member of the Monetary Union on the basis of the Stability and Growth Pact. It has made a commitment to the management of a sustainable budgetary policy. The key point of this Pact is also the recommendation that Member States also pursue a rational and balanced public financial policy at a time of high economic growth. At these starting points, Slovenia has been tasked with reducing the deficit of the state sector to 1% of GDP by 2009. This objective has been achieved two years earlier. If companies did not relieve red tape and reduce tax rates, economic growth would certainly not be so high, and consequently such tax revenues would not be achieved. It should be noted that the revenue side already shows the common effects of tax reform. Notwithstanding nominally higher tax revenues, their share, measured by a percentage of GDP, continues to decline. The total budget revenue represents 23.35 GDP and is the lowest in the last 5 years. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that the amended tax legislation, due to the decommissioning of taxpayers, both in financial terms and with a reduced number of forms, has encouraged the different conduct of taxpayers. This is also demonstrated by investments in fixed assets, which are the richest category of development. Their growth is high and their share of GDP among the highest in the last decade. According to Eurostat, Slovenia exceeds the average of European countries by a quarter. Finally, there are capital gains among the sources of income, which the owners show as a result of more favourable taxation. Reducing budgetary resources makes it even more rational, economical behaviour of indirect and direct budgetary users. It is up to us, fellow Members and fellow Members, to adopt such a draft budget that will meet the needs of our citizens, which will contribute to the balanced development of the country as a whole. An effective allocation of funds is a task that must be carried out with the highest degree of responsibility. The next objectives of the Lisbon Strategy and the strategy for the development of Slovenia are to target companies that provide their people with the highest level of general well-being. Since the success of the historic event in the political history of the Slovenians, such as the entry into the European Union and later into the European Monetary Union, we have been comparing ourselves with the best countries. And the rules that apply to their public finances apply to us. In the same international economic situation, some European countries are producing different public financial results. The fact is that even the budget surplus is not a guarantee for a low level of inflation, let us look at the example of Estonia. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that with such budgets we are achieving those goals that are most important for Slovenia and its people, and will be ranked among the most developed as soon as possible. We stress in particular that these objectives will be achieved with appropriate social policies. In the New Slovenia Group, we consistently advocate such a social policy, which is also linked to responsibility, with special attention to the protection of the weak, children, families and the elderly. The expenditure sides Members of the New Slovenia Group are not only assessed through statistical indicators, they show that the share of the country's expenditure, expressed as a percentage of GDP, has been reduced by a good 3 percentage points compared to 2005. This is a kind of achievement, especially since this reduction did not result in investment in science and other development sectors, nor did it interfere with social rights. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that the relevant public financial policy co-forms the favourable conditions for the smooth development of society and the economy. The criteria for identification may be different, but the gross domestic product is certainly more frequently used. According to Eurostat's estimates, we will already exceed 90% of the European average in 2007 in Slovenia. In the New Slovenia Group, we also assess these achievements of the public financial policy in the light of the implementation of the priorities set by our Group of Members. We advocate reforms of state and public administration and justice. The budget reflects a number of coordinated actions that will contribute to a more friendly and efficient public administration; as a positive example in the area of justice, we point out Lukend's programme. The developmental orientation of the budgets is based on the structure of the budget. According to the 2004 starting year, the funds for housing and utilities, agriculture and the economy are the most increasing. The economic work significantly improves the relationship between the part aimed at settling legal obligations and the work aimed at promoting investment, entrepreneurship and technological development, as this ratio for 2009 is set at 31 to 69 in favour of incentives. We also welcome a significant 63.5% increase in funds for technological development. The inclusion of projects under the Resolution on National Development Programmes in the Development Programme Plan is an additional development incentive. The budget share for this purpose is EUR 314 million of the state budget. The European Commission has recently approved a state aid scheme to provide the regional relief provided by the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons to less developed areas with an additional opportunity for faster development. A coherent regional development is one of the main priorities of the New Slovenia Group, which we also advocate in providing funds to municipalities and all other divisions of the budget at the local level. While the nominal comparison shows a significant reduction in local self-government expenditure, this is due to the new community funding system. The revised Community funding system reduces the dependence of most municipalities on the state budget as the level of financial compensation decreases and increases funding from tax resources belonging to municipalities. During the transitional period of five years starting in 2007, the share of the municipality's own revenues, which, in addition to financial compensation, are intended to finance the appropriate consumption of municipalities, will be reduced, and the proportion of the State budget's decommissioned revenue to finance the appropriate consumption of municipalities will increase. The financial adjustment will remain at approximately the same level. As a result of the amended law, additional three per cent of eligible spending on public infrastructure investments is also allocated to the municipalities by 2012, 6. In the New Slovenia Group, we are pleased to note that the funds allocated to municipalities have been increasing steadily since 2005 when the amount of appropriate spending was first increased by 10%. To municipalities, in less developed areas, the funds increased by 40% to 60% in four years. The basis for more coherent regional development is also appropriate infrastructure, in particular transport infrastructure. The proposal for amending the 2008 budget is promising in this direction. The left share of the area represents an increase in resources for the construction, maintenance and management of public rail infrastructure. Road transport and infrastructure are increasing by as much as €99 million in 2008. We also acquire significant transport resources in the 2009 supplementary draft budget. In the New Slovenia Group, we also support the increase in road transport resources, both for the construction of state road infrastructure and for the highway programme. It also applies to the adoption of the 2007 budget rebalancing, which has provided funds for the construction and modernisation of railway infrastructure. The commitments included in this title include a proposal for amending the 2008 budget account for 0.3% of GDP. Without this change and the costs of the EU Presidency in 2008, the budget deficit would be only 0.2% of GDP. In the New Slovenia Group, we advocate solidarity related to responsibility within the framework of social policy and support the interrelationship between policyholders. In view of the new macroeconomic starting point, a smaller percentage of GDP is allocated to pension protection, but in the New Slovenia Group we are pleased that we are in the Government, which has changed the pension coordination system and is now more equitable to pensioners. In the New Slovenia Group we advocate a high 17.6% share of the budget expenditure for education. The reason for this view is that Slovenian education and higher education must enable our citizens to perform on an equal footing in the European labour market. Aware of the seriousness of the demographic picture in Slovenia, we strongly support the increase in resources for the protection and upbringing of preschool children. The new legislation provides for greater co-financing of payments to parents who have multiple children involved at the same time in kindergarten. We are also pleased that decisions are made to earmark €1.7 million more for textbook funds than was proposed, as textbooks will be purchased from these funds and, above all, free rentals will be introduced for all three primary school triads. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that these are the right steps towards ensuring a truly free primary school. According to the New Slovenia Group, the family is the centre and foundation of society. We are pleased to note that the 2009 draft budget for children and the family is aimed at significantly increasing the resources. These programmes target 61.4% of the total area. In connection with the increase in resources for the protection and upbringing of preschool children, a more favourable environment is gradually being developed for young families. In the New Slovenia Group, we are aware that even more resources for this purpose cannot change the demographic picture at the moment, but we say that every more decisive step in this direction needs to be supported with great efficiency. We believe that this will also lead to a more favourable public opinion for larger families, which will, with gradual financial incentives, help to decide for life without fear. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that all participants in economic life in society must strive to make a world that is better for the life and work of all people. This must include economic and financial policy, training and education, employment and social policy and all other organised political efforts. We are convinced that the 2008 budget changes provide the right conditions in our country to ensure greater prosperity for all people, so we will support the proposal. The updated draft budget for 2009 is also a fundamental element of ensuring the conditions for achieving the strategic objective, i.e. greater prosperity and quality of life for all Slovenians and Slovenes, which will result in the support of the New Slovenia Group. In the New Slovenia Group, we support both proposals, especially because we have achieved the lowest public financial expenditure and also income and thus good economic conditions, because we have reduced the public financial deficit below the projected level under the Stability Pact because employment is increasing and because conditions are being created for better conditions to increase fertility and improve demographic imagery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jerovšek, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I would like to make a procedural proposal to conduct today's debate. On behalf of Social Democracy, he mentioned that the Government is panicking and desperate to increase budget expenditure. I must find that panic and despair, fear and trembling and teething have gripped his client when the President of the Government set up a mirror and offered to participate in the government and accept responsibility. Because the budget is a fundamental programme document of the country on which the development of the country and the future of our children depends, I propose, Mr President, that those Members from those parliamentary groups who have so insultingly spoken to voters and citizens that they do not have a mandate to represent people, that they do not want to accept any responsibility and that they do not have a mandate, which is fundamentally contrary to Article 82 of the Constitution, is to deny the Constitution and deny parliamentaryism that those Members, if they wish to discuss, are publicly distanced and excuse the electorate to invite them to do so. For without this, it is impossible to participate in such an important debate as the budget debate. I have once called on those who do not want to accept the mandate, the responsibilities and representations to withdraw, to give their successors a seat in this House. And the presidents that it would not be necessary to speak irresponsibly about such important points, and I ask that you invite them or that they do not distance themselves or that they are dissuasive from not having a mandate to represent people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I'll get back to you as soon as I can. Mr Jerovšek, this is not a procedural proposal and I cannot do this. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u32	Procedural proposal. This time, I really think, honourable Presidents, that you should, in accordance with the rules of procedure of this Assembly, take away the word of someone who is discussing it in the way that my fellow Member did before me. Given that he wanted to take away the words of the Members and Members of the National Assembly who were critical to this budget, for the first time, for the second time, he wanted us to apologize in each of our appearances to someone who, according to his beliefs, is his or their electorate and therefore, as a sign of understanding every time I speak, I will apologize first to Mr Jerovšek, his constituents and all others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u33	Thank you very much for the debate. Mr Zagorac, that was not a procedural question and I cannot accept that either. Mr. Squeakle, what do you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u34	The substantive procedural proposal is based on what Mr Jerovšek said.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u35	Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u36	My procedural proposal is that, because we have an adopted budget for 2008, it is published in the Official Journal at the end of 2006, we have it, it is formally adopted. I propose that the National Assembly simply find that the proposal for amending the 2008 budget is inappropriate for further consideration and returned to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me to explain the reasons for this procedural proposal. This would primarily avoid what Mr Jerovšek said we should not criticize here. We have such a bad suggestion that we must criticize him. And if we reject it as inappropriate, then this critical debate, which is particularly bad for the coalition, will not happen. But the facts are hard. We have 11% of the expenditure growth, instead of 6% of the growth as adopted and as now in the current state budget for 2008. Citizens and citizens need to know that last year Mr Bajuk and also last year Mr Bajuk and Mr President of the Government have proposed a much-corrected budget for 2008, and this has also been adopted. They didn't know exactly what was going to happen on the railways and so on, but now they've drawn up a catastrophically bad budget. And in order to avoid the situation where Mr Jerovská is struggling, what we will say this afternoon is critical, very simple, procedural decision reject and there is no debate and we will go straight to 2009. What you're suggesting is that you no longer suggest that we train ourselves, you suggest that the National Assembly abolish the opposition. I suggest you get 60 votes and change the Constitution. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u37	Mr. Mag. Hiccup [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u38	My procedural proposal is that the National Assembly find that the proposal for amending the 2008 budget is not a suitable basis for further consideration. This can be done, this is a formally corrected procedural proposal and I justify it, we have a budget and this is much better, not worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I can't accept that either. This dealt with the mother's working body and assessments or the possibility of voting will exist in the coming days or the following hours. Thank you very much. By continuing with the debate on the individual parts of the proposal for amendments to the 2008 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. As an individual part, the general part of the draft amending budget shall be considered, secondly: a specific part of the draft amending budget and thirdly: a development programme plan. We are moving on to the general part of the 2008 draft amending budget. Anyone who wants a word, the application runs. Mr. Minister of Finance, Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Now in this part I would like to explain certain things that have been mentioned here. I understand, and I anticipated that such a debate would also take place because, finally, this debate is a debate on the budget. We are talking about all public finances. And the difference between the concept of total public finances and the budget is great. As I mentioned in my presentation - the budget, although a very important part of the overall image of public finances in the Republic of Slovenia, is 58% of this whole. So when we speak and if we want to compare, and since we have entered the European Union, we are not just talking about budgets anymore, but we must always have the whole picture in front of us. Finally, there are also very important changes in the structure of public finances, because certain things previously recorded in certain funds or certain institutions are now an integral part of the budget and are presented in a transparent manner, and I have already reported this to you. The problem with this whole matter is that we always want to compare the budget and forget that if we want to talk about a comparison, we need to talk about the whole public finances. And since it has happened here, there are some changes happening in this draft budget this year, where the funds that were previously in the agencies and did not appear in the budget are now appearing in the budget, it is apparent that this is greater. However, this, something which is, of course, a very interesting subject for discussion and opens the way for such or other opinions, I must explain that these opinions are misleading, unless they respect the whole. And as far as the whole is concerned, and this is the only whole used by both the European Commission and the European Central Bank, is the comprehensive image of public finances, according to the same methodology in all countries - and this is ESA95. And in these matters, I must insist once again that, as far as the public financial aspect is concerned, when it is actually looking at the whole, what is truly meaningful and only the whole is reasonable to look at, still holds that public spending is as a whole, in this period of three years, from December 2004 to December 2007, until December 2007, it will fall by 3% of gross domestic product. Not only that, it is necessary to know when we are talking about such different conclusions of the European Commission and the European Council of Finance Ministers that the Republic of Slovenia, through this implementation of the budget and with these data, will actually fulfil, already fulfil and will exceed the medium-term objective that each Member State must also set in accordance with the Stability and Growth Pact. Slovenia has proposed and the European Commission and the European Central Bank have also accepted that because it is an economy that still needs to catch up with everyone else, we have certain things that we still need to carry out, and these are major investments in infrastructure, that we can have a structural deficit of minus 1% as a medium-term objective. Therefore, when it is said, the budget has increased, if not mentioned, but it is complete, regardless of what the transfers within the public financial position are, if not stated, then such assessments and such presentations are indeed misleading. The other thing I would like to mention is that the current Government would decide that amendments should be made and accepted in accordance with a specific methodology that requires that each amendment should also bring or contribute to the source from which it is considered that this can be hidden, that it is actually only a transfer. I would like to remind all honourable Members that this is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which was established and adopted in the previous term and not now. Another matter that is very much discussed is the structural deficit. The structural deficit is actually assessed on the basis of two acceptable methodologies, by the European Commission. When we do this on the basis of the data we have, when the Ministry of Finance's professional services assess the structural deficit, today we can provide again, based on our data, the structural deficit will indeed be reduced below 1% of GDP. That there are differences in this area is completely understandable. Among other things, because these new Member States do not have sufficient historical data comparable and therefore we have great problems and the European Commission has decided, and the European Central Bank has also agreed that this can be accounted for either through the so-called production function or through another methodology which is somewhat more complex, but also provides the same, with both methodologies, one way or another, the Ministry of Finance's professional services have calculated this and this is true. As far as debt is concerned. You know, when we hear rumors of debt, I have some things to explain again. The only meaningful way to talk about debt is to compare it to the capacity that someone has to pay for it. And this all over the world is compared to the share of gross domestic product. While neighbouring countries, for example the neighbouring country has one sovereign debt, the total debt of about 110% of gross domestic product is as follows: in 2006 it was 27.1% of GDP. In 2007, we are forecasting by the Ministry of Finance's professional services that this share will fall to 25.6. In 2008, 24.7.2009 23.8 and so on. Let me mention that. When I took over the responsibilities of the Ministry of Finance, I received a gift from my predecessor, for which I was very grateful. Otherwise, the services and him personally, he prepared the Convergence Report of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005, and he told me what I am grateful for today, Minister, you cannot write something like this on the first day, we have prepared it for you, see if you agree with that and sign it. I reviewed this thing, studied it, thanked it again, signed it, and it was the convergence programme of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005. We have made some minor changes. What did it say? In the convergence programme 2005 prepared by my predecessor, it was anticipated that in 2005, the entire convergence programme will be written if you do not change anything if you work wisely, as we have outlined, these results will be. That's what was done and I'm grateful to him today. Among other things, because it clearly shows and can be checked by anyone on the Ministry of Finance’s website, convergence programmes have been written down and you will find that, if nothing changes in Slovenia, Slovenia’s indebtedness would be foreseen in 2005 at that time in December 2004 to be 30.7% and in 2006 30.9. Let me repeat, at the end of 2006 it was based on this methodology, and now on concrete historical data that does not need to be warmed, in any case, I prefer to see that we are talking about data, rather than always insisting on using new words that are supposed to describe some terrible catastrophe and cataclysm or collapse that Slovenia faces. I don't know if I can come to this session with one dictionary to find synonymous words like that. I think that the budget should be debated on the basis of data. And Slovenia's debt, Slovenia's debt on the basis of data, not what it predicted, if there were no changes, the government in the previous composition, and 30.7% 30.9% in 2006, was in fact 27.1 at the end of 2007, 25.6 24.7 and so on. Why is that? Yes, because of the fact that the deficits actually decreased, they decreased considerably. And why did they go down? They have fallen down in the fullness of what must always be talked about. It's very easy to talk about just one piece if you don't take full knowledge at the same time. When I took over the responsibilities of the Ministry of Finance, I found much greater deficits in such and other cash registers, there was a deficit in the health treasury and there was a deficit in the ZPIZ. We have resolved this in 2006 and today they are balanced and will remain balanced. And this was a methodology in previous periods that represented only a deficit in the budget and actual deficits were hidden in other cash registers because only the budget was always talked about. Dear Members and Members! When we discuss the public finances of the Republic of Slovenia, it is right to talk about the budget, but we must always know that the budget is only part of everything, very important, more than half, 58%, but only part. That there are other things where such and other information can be hidden. I assure you that the Ministry of Finance has proposed and the Government has also accepted that we have slowly cleared up all these deficits. Today we know where we are. And where are we? We are where we said that we are - because public consumption in the Republic of Slovenia has actually already declined and will be reduced by 3% of gross domestic product by the end of 2007, that the indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia is much lower than planned, unless there is any change. And this is based on a very conservative and serious fiscal policy, which also reduced the budget and reduced overall public spending. And because we have such economic growth, this share of our debt today represents less than it represented just three years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We continue with the reported debaters. Mr. Ferry Horvat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Minister with co-workers, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, and all those who accompany this debate! Allow me to make a methodological comment or observation in the preparation and adoption of the budget before making comments in the general work on the income balance and the expenditure balance. With the fact that the State budget is the main instrument of the economic and development policy of the country, after joining the euro area and thus reducing monetary sovereignty, this is all the more so, it is all the more worrying that the role of the National Assembly, in my opinion, in the preparation and adoption of budgets, is diminishing, marginalising, only to formal treatment, even if it will last for several hours, and to confirm and vote at the end. This is not good for the quality of budgets, nor for the democratic process of one of the main powers of Parliament in a normal country. Let me give you some evidence of that. The supplementary draft budget, and in particular the budget changes that we are considering now, have been followed by a number of discussions that we had before on the working bodies and also now on the Committee on Finance, and many of these discussions have also been substantively significant and rich. In the workplace, I am thinking of the Committee on Finance here, as a parent working body, with the exception of the service of the coalition members with the amendments, nothing has changed. The government, in fact, essentially all the debates they have had, even though it has promised to study them; I hope it has; it has not taken them into account in fact, because the changes it has brought to this conclusion are insignificant. After years of experience in this National Assembly, I must admit that there are really no major, dramatic changes in the way budgets are dealt with. The government comes with a proposal, then a lot is debated and in the end nothing happens or changes, but basically what the Government proposes is accepted. However, I must point out that the way and adoption of budgets is getting worse from year to year. Years ago, when there were many left and right parties in the coalition, there in the early 1990s, we had the practice that in preparing the budget, before the government adopted it as a proposal and sent it to Parliament, that we were Members, indeed, that the coalition, in specific working groups, and that we were conducting dialogues in each sector, each budgetary consumer, also had discussions, directly with budgetary consumers, and that we were trying to achieve as rational a solution as possible, on the one hand, to meet the urgent needs, and on the other hand, that we were not going into over-expenditure. I don't know how many coalition Members you have now been involved in the formation of budgets, if you have ever been. This year's speciality is the adoption of amendments to the coalition, sometimes the so-called mega amendment at the end of the consideration or adoption of the budget, where attempts were made to include proposals from Members and Members, in particular from where they came from, especially for the construction and reconstruction of roads, but this was done in a proportionate manner in cooperation with the Government and I say that both members of the coalition and the opposition participated. Obviously, this year, when we are ahead of the election year, when we adopt the budget for next year, it is different. It's about buying an election. Finally, the quality preparation of budgets would require a thorough substantive debate both in the revenue and expenditure sides, not now that nothing can actually be changed, but it would have to be done much sooner before the Government has drawn up a proposal or proposals for Parliament, and this would certainly be useful and in the interest of the quality of the budget proposals. And now three comments on the revenue side. First time. First, commend us for not saying that we are just destructive or criticizing. I estimate that tax collection has improved, which shows the improved efficiency and expertise of the tax service, and that it is necessary to allow human resources to complete and modern information technology in order to do even better, that serious state devotes much attention to this service, as we know. Another time. The risk or critical part of the revenue is also, according to my assessment of the European Union's resources. I am sorry that this needs to be repeated repeatedly, but even if we look at the latest data, colleagues and colleagues, for this year, here have already been mentioned in the debate for 9 months, if we look at the data for 10 months, we see that the situation has improved, although nominally little, but in fact it has not improved and that it does not reflect what the government representatives have said when we opened this issue weeks and months ago, that we will not actually make use of the funds foreseen in the budgets for this year and this will be reflected in the budget for next year. The data for 10 months show that Slovenia's net position in relation to the European budget, where EUR 276 million has been paid, that we have received only EUR 248.8 million and that the payments are higher by EUR 27.4 million, while it was envisaged that we would be able to benefit by EUR 265 million more in ten months than we are paying. The use of EU funds has been good in agriculture, where we know that there is a specific system and internal affairs, Schengen. Very poor where the EU needs funds very badly, this is in the area of structural policy, 13.25% use in ten months, in line with the regional development of 12.6% use and the European Social Fund, in order to increase absurdity, only 8.3% use. This means that we have made the worst use of resources in the areas where we need them most for less developed areas, consistent regional development and so on. Despite the objective difficulties in using European funds, we cannot go beyond the fact that obviously the Government and, in particular, individual resources, to be more precise are not properly organised and that they do not have sufficient resources for the necessary activities and for the preparation of programmes for the effective use of these funds. We also hear warnings from the European Commission about this. It is high time for the Government to take effective action in this area. Communication with the European Commission or with individual Directorates is obviously not the best in individual ministries. Third, on the income side, the corporate income tax. As this source of budget revenue rises, there are two. Firstly, the reduction in this tax could be even greater for the decommissioning of the economy, with which the Government is so pleased, than we have proposed when adopting this law or novelty in the Group of Social Democrats. Secondly, the increase in inflows gives an opportunity to leave a greater share in the economy for quality development. In particular, it would be necessary and useful to buy modern equipment, which would not contribute to the construction of buildings and commercial areas that are already too much, but to greater added value in technological modern production. And a few more words about the income work of the balance sheet. The government in the 2008 budget and the same is true for the 2009 budget did not make sufficient use of high economic growth for the restructuring of the budget also on the expenditure side. Some feel that they could correct the deficit or even create a surplus. I personally believe that this is not necessary, but that it would be more important to use 0.5 or 1% of gross domestic product for effective purposes to promote sustainable growth for entrepreneurship, for technological development, to promote exports and foreign investment, for education and for an effective active employment policy. High growth makes it possible to reduce the rigidity of budgetary expenditure and more resources for active policies. In doing so, it must be acknowledged that some progress has been made with the Ministry of Economy, where there are more resources, at least in real and percentage growth, aimed at so-called soft measures to promote the efficiency of the economy, for competitiveness, for entrepreneurship, for technology. However, colleagues and colleagues, it is not enough to boast about growth, with percentages, but let us look at the reality that we had a very low base in these areas and these growths are not sufficient and do not ensure the effective implementation of the development strategy and, in particular, the Lisbon Strategy programme. The resources for science and technology, both in the Ministry of Economy and in the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, do not guarantee levels in the European Union despite nominal growth, not to mention countries with several times the share of these funds, both in budgets and in the private sector, in gross domestic product, and these are also, as is known, the most successful countries. More resources would be needed to promote entrepreneurship and increase competitiveness and additional value. More tax reliefs would also be needed here for the purchase of modern equipment. There are insufficient resources to facilitate the pre-structure of companies. Today someone mentioned the food industry. The fact that prices are too high is one reason that we did not restructure the food industry in the previous years, but also in the years of this government, even though we knew from the experiences of Austria and others what it brings to the European Union. There are still insufficient resources, especially with the poor use of EU funds and government activities for more coherent regional development. Greater emphasis, both with resources and with effective activities, should be given to an active employment policy. Data on average unemployment reduction cannot be a reason for self-satisfaction. There are still, especially in less developed areas, too many young people who complete studies and do not get a job, and the problem of employment for older people and some other problems is persistent. At the same time, a number of activities and areas are faced with a lack of adequate skilled labour, which is becoming a limiting factor for development even in less developed areas. Therefore, more involvement of both the economy and businesses, as well as of countries, is essential for more targeted, for real needs, training for the necessary quality jobs. Despite the relative increase, we still have insufficient resources to promote Slovenia as an economic partner. It should be noted that exports are in fact one of the main drivers of economic growth, quality economic growth, balance of payments movements are not favourable, and more needs to be done to promote foreign investments that are not yet satisfactory and finally for tourism. I am concerned, however, that we will not take advantage of the great opportunity offered or offered by the Presidency. In doing so, it is necessary to strengthen the role of the Slovenian exporting company, which has played a very important role in the promotion of exports so far, since through insurance and other forms of financing it provides as much as 20% of its exports, so it applies both to the budget and to other measures of the State to support and extend the activities of this institution through new financial connections and instruments. Let me conclude with another question, which is not covered enough in this budget and not in the supplementary draft budget for next year or for 2009, this is international development cooperation. The funds are likely to fall below 0.1% of the gross domestic product for this purpose when gross domestic product increases and the estimated funds for this purpose. In doing so, we must be aware that we have a commitment to the European Union, that these funds should be increased to 0.17% of gross domestic product by 2010 and 0.33% by the end of 2015. This is not just an international obligation, but international development cooperation can be a very effective way of creating and opening new markets and creating new business for the economy. However, this area requires an effective organisation in addition to the necessary resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I would like to respond very briefly to some of the allegations, followed by the Minister of Finance, that we are painting here a critical, overly critical picture, which is frightening. The facts are as follows. The debt of the Republic of Slovenia was around €6.4 billion, €31.3.2007 8.1 billion. The Republic of Slovenia's guarantee of 31.12.2004 2.3 billion, but not at the end of the term of office of the Republic of Slovenia at the end of 2007. The total difference is over 3 billion debt increases of the Republic of Slovenia and guarantees. And this affects the total gross external debt of the Republic of Slovenia. If this was 15.3 billion, gentlemen, this is not the data of the opposition, this is the data of the Bank of Slovenia, page 75/2 of the bulletin, Table 3.11. Gross external debt. If this was even more than 31.12.2004, 15.343 million is 30.8 billion euro on 31 August 2007. The Minister of Finance likes to have shares in GDP. In 2004, 57% of GDP, now at the end of August 2007, and 93% of GDP. And it's getting bigger. The guarantees were issued. At the Ministry of Transport they'll know that, at Dars they'll know that they're not yet involved in this because the debt just hasn't been taken over because the accounts are still coming. In three years from 15.3 to increase the volume of gross external debt to 30.8 and not create at least 5.6% of economic growth, it would be very strange. But to have growth because you have increased from 57% to 93% the gross external debt in the proportion of GDP, and in the proportion of everything we create, it's a kind of unconscious thing to say. And that's what the custodian of public finances, who is usually the minister of finance, has to worry about. I don't even blame the Prime Minister. The President of the Government has ministers, and each one covers his own point, but says that the Minister of Finance closes the budget with external duties, the Minister of Education and Sport does not get the money for the ministry, to build the premises for the ministry. Then the management company of the Republic of Slovenia, through public finances, takes financial leasing beyond the constitutional principle and builds the premises of the Ministry of Education and Sport. Imagine that in the municipality of X the mayor would ask a municipal company owned by him to take the financial leasing and build the premises of the assembly, the premises of the president of the municipality, for the mayor. What would you say to him? They'd ask him about his health. And we're doing it consciously here. And then to explain that it's not, but it's in ESA and so on, it doesn't make any sense. The money created by the unconscious policy is too much and by at least 13.3% in food prices exceed the available commodity funds. That's how it is in the economy, if you're in Europe, if you're not in Europe. And this is the Argentine model that we brought here, which will end with a sad Portuguese scenario. Why? So there'll be a little more concrete?Oh, my God! As one of the editors says today, "We build roads, roads build us." Please! When you have full-occupied construction capacity, and you throw 35% more money into these holes, you don't get 35% more long miles, but you get at full capacity higher price per unit of product. It's also the first year of economic high school. And we have such a minister of finance and such a president of the government, and we have such a draft budget, so let's stop this madness! Not adopted in the 2008 budget. Let this be a austerity, the Minister of Finance will have to try a little harder, and he may look different than the Minister of Finance than you would have wanted. I end with a comparison with Mr Maramor and Minister Bajuk. Look at the data in the budget memo. Growth in material costs in 2004 minus 3%, growth in material costs in 2008 on the proposal of the Minister of Finance plus 20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Petan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. So, I have been very interested in waiting for this meeting, especially to hear the biggest experts on finance and governance in Slovenia - what will they say now? In fact, so far, from the beginning of this government and until a few months ago, we have been able to keep listening to shit in the form of sent questions. I got a copy, a whole bunch of them, and I'll talk about it later. In fact, the fellow Member, Mr Cwickl, the Social Democrat, then the LDS, at the beginning, kept beating and asking the President, first of all, the Finance Minister, the Prime Minister of the Government, about the single tax rate. There was no end and no place for how terrible this will be for Slovenia, why Slovenia will introduce a single tax rate. Nothing helped that everyone swore, and I don't know what it's not gonna be, that it's just a choice. It didn't help anything. He, as the greatest expert, has been in all media to destroy this Slovenia. And I ask you, where is today's single tax rate? She's not here. But you were such an expert on it, you knew everything. Second. A few months ago, you beat up with an increase in VAT. The rate is going to be 22, 23, even 24% or whatever, it's going to be the same for everyone. Nothing helped with the minister's swearing, giving his word of honor that there was no such thing. It was, Mr. Squeakl knew this, he was in all the media, explaining to everyone how this would destroy Slovenia. That's not what today is. That is why I would ask the representatives of the Ministry of Finance whether this single tax rate or VAT raise could be hidden. I don't see him, but we don't see him in the Group of Members, but maybe he's hidden him somewhere, so he'd tell us again if that's true, if those experts who knew everything had it all right, and they're teaching us some things again today, and they're so confident that this is going to happen. And with regard to this expertise, so that I don't read all these parliamentary questions that have been a little bit unsaid offensive, misleading, I won't even talk about it, I won't talk about mud anymore, because it doesn't make sense. Everything Mr. Squeakl predicted didn't hold, but it was the other way around. But he was the greatest expert, and he knew everything, and he knows everything now. But nothing held what he said. If I were to hold on to something, then I would believe and take the suggestions that he may make today seriously. She didn't hold on to it that way. And the other thing is that I'm going to back up this thought that no one is going to tell me that I have anything against Mr. Squill. I don't have anything. See, in 2005 he asked a question: last Monday, on June 13th, when we started with the parliamentary questions, Mr President of the Government and the President of the SDS did not respond satisfactorily to the question of what the new government will do in response to data on the halvation of economic growth in the first year of 2005, both in a manner and in a manner. Perhaps this is not a concern for the Prime Minister, perhaps because the priority of this government is not necessarily economic growth, but governance as such. Dear Sir, distinguished Mrs. Squeakle, with respect to the SD, what now? It is not a good week ago when the President of the Government gave you the opportunity to take the opportunity to rule ahead and you will be able to make more economic growth. Does this mean now, given that this government has now done, please do, if it had anything else in it in 2005, then it probably has more now? If she has made 6% of economic growth, does this mean that she is too interested in economic growth and too little in governance as such? And now you're going to say, but now let's take a little interest in governance, and economic growth is so high. If I just take a thought, the content of what you were asking at the time is that we're only interested in behavior. Now you've had the chance to take over, and you'd do what you think you do, what you know, what you've seen at the time, that we're only interested in governance. Economic growth is now 6% or if it is 5.5 or 6.5, it's completely irrelevant, it's high. This means that now these governments, and the government doesn't care at all that you're worried that they're not going to rule well now, because they're obviously not interested because they've come so high with economic growth, because you've always said that the government should take action. Imagine, the government obviously imagined, acted, and came, just as it had come. Now you're worried if this government doesn't rule anymore. Very interesting. And so, of course, I cannot take your well-intentioned advice too seriously. And he made that statement, and I'm going to say, I'm sorry, I don't mean so bad, I'm bothering the Minister of Finance about these VAT issues, the uniform tax rate, I don't know what kind of debt, but I don't know what. It was not possible to prove that this would probably not be the case, and this is the Member who was admitted with the champagne to the new SD Group. However, he honored the President of this party, Mr Pahor, in order to receive this Member. And now he says he doesn't have a mandate to take over and rule, and what better to do, or maybe they were more interested in ruling, because then there was concern about it. And it seems that such methods, such deception, are highly contagious. Actually, it's not a week, it's just a few days before the Croatian elections, your sister's SD party just threw the same trick out, "but if the old government wins, the taxes will go up." Same thing, exactly the same thing! And now I don't know, I'm sure it's a naked case, but I'm a sucker to be forgiven. The same was true with pensions, the same Member, and another from the SD, he kept talking and data was being sent to the Central Bank, that Slovenia was giving that government too much for pensions, that it was necessary to pay less for pensions because the finances would fall apart. There were also some tables from the National Bank at the time that this would be better reinforced. But here we have also continued to listen, even during a bunch of these questions, how Slovenian finances will not last because of too high - no, otherwise I will say, due to too much money for pensions. This is said to be the place where pensions are to be taken in order to hold the Slovenian finances. And this lasted as long as the President of the Government did not reply in this Chamber, "as long as I am the President of the Government, pensions may be as they are, but if there is any other government, then a lot can happen." Then it quieted down a little. And today these people are again convincing us how the ideas they have are right, save, best, help and let the government do something for God's sake. That's why I read to you literally, which was said you wouldn't tell me any deception. You always said the government should act. Apparently, the government was doing something to get to know each other. On the other hand, today we have been able to hear that the Government, as reflected in this budget, has no development ambitions. Now let me ask you: Is 6% economic growth not developmental, is that not ambition? Isn't that a development ambition? I don't understand you. Even so far it has come that you have asked the Government to reduce economic growth, for God's sake, because this is going to get a little too hot in the economic sector. How this goes together now - calling for a slight reduction and, on the other hand, there is no development ambition. What is a better development ambition, such as high economic growth, because then it brings all that we want. Of course, I will support this budget, especially because of the amendment, which was said to have sometimes not done so. It doesn't matter how it ended up in that common bag called the state budget, because there's a project in there from my territory. I don't think it's too bad if we've managed to accept an amendment for a crossroad in Tepanj and for a crossroad in Žic. And those who say it's a waste of money, that it's not knowing what it is, would be invited, Mr. Squeakle, come to Fight or to Žiča, where the road is dangerous, even children can be hit by accidents, but tell these citizens, countries, or my voters that it's a waste of money, that if a child is run over there or an adult, it's that, I don't know, where they would put it in statistics alone. I don't think that's true. Tell them it's pointless that this doesn't work, especially if this government has money if there's still money in the budget. Okay, not just like that, you've got it right here, but it was already on the program, and we put some tolar in there. I don't think it's anything bad, but I'm sure people wouldn't understand you if you were talking about how expensive it is, building such a crossroads with a footpath, a sidewalk and the like. It would be very difficult to convince them. But here it's easy to talk in the hall. Come to the field and you'll see what people expect from it. I also support this budget, and also the next one for 2009, because I am sure that this budget is unlikely, but it is certainly the best of all that I am in this Chamber, even in the previous one. Even through budgets, as you correctly determine, one government policy and one government tendency can be mirrored. This trend is that we are making progress as quickly as possible to reach the most developed in Europe. I don't think I'm going to say anything new, but it's right to say that we have reached some of the old members of the European Union at that time, say Greece and Portugal, even Cyprus, which is new, but it was before us, and that the other goal is now that the countries that are closest to us are now, and that is Spain. It's already our goal. And if we continue with such economic growth, perhaps with such measures, because they have brought you so far, then we will probably catch up with these two or the next one somehow. This is not the only goal, but it is one of these, since we are always comparing ourselves, we need to compare ourselves with better ones. And today it is a little embarrassing that some, I don't know, European secretaries, representatives of European institutions, which are from countries with 1% economic growth, inflation is significantly higher, with bulldozers destroying the homes of foreign workers, criticise that Slovenia is a poor example. We have 6% growth and an average of 3% inflation, and we have not yet dealt with bulldozers and houses of foreign workers. That, unfortunately, just doesn't work. I support such guidelines, so I will also support this budget because I think it is the best, probably the best. This does not mean that good proposals would not be perceptible, but, unfortunately, I have told you why some of the proposals simply cannot be accepted, because so far everything that has been said from this place, from the place that I quoted it, has been quite the opposite. But the results are good because the government did not take that into account. And now it may not be necessary for me to come forward later, when it has been said, to suggest why this debate today should just be interrupted, but to find that it is not right. Yeah, but maybe that's the way you say you don't have a mandate, and then you don't hope to discuss it. Maybe that's in that context. But that was just so much by the way that we wouldn't replicate. I will, of course, support this proposal, which is before us, and I think the 2009 budget will be just a continuation of this. I think it would be right for those of you who have completely changed the board in a short period of time to worry about low economic growth at first, to say that there is a need for action, but now that the government is taking action because it is too high economic growth. Sometimes you claimed that we were giving too much money for pensions, for the pensioners, that you would just somehow come to the idea that maybe this is just not the case, and that if the state could give so much for the pensioners and pensioners that it was right to get it. Last but not least, the pensioners earned it with a long job. And I'll even say it like that: where does it say we couldn't have any bigger? But it can only be if we continue to have such high economic growth, low unemployment, we will be able to tackle and improve those things that are not yet right. That is why I will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Very briefly. The Member should be told that the single tax rate was stopped by demonstrators in 2005 in the snow. VAT has not been raised by the government because the VAT negative effect has already occurred at higher prices. And if you have 11% higher price, you have a 20% rate of 2 extra percentage points of revenue. You said the first government to have a negative VAT effect without raising it at all. About the pension. We have advocated with the amendments for the creation of such a reconciliation of pensions that would increase the lowest pension. And as regards, of course, Mr Member, economic growth and so-called circulars. First, it is sustainable economic growth. And when you have 13.3% inflation, when you have 5% wage growth, when you have 2% pension growth, and when you have zero growth, 23 months of social transfers, it's not sustainable economic growth. And I don't have a problem, and congratulations to the community and to you for the circle, but I have a problem if this circle is financed on this account, that, I don't know, in the Wall Bridge or anywhere else, it's not financed by the circle, or that it's financed by children because they have less money for lunches in schools, or by recipients of social transfers who haven't been coordinated for 23 months because of the law you proposed. And this is the story of the state budget. Of course, I wish you all the best in the elections. But you know, the dilemma is always what is socially more acceptable: to provide for the 120 thousand pensioners who have the lowest pensions, additional harmonisation, to cut into negotiations between employees and capital and to try to reduce expenditure or simply make one or two turns. It's not enough to just fence concrete.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Genius, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Since it was just a speech on pensions, I would say that the law that was amended in 2005 certainly did not cause public financial shocks because the correction was invalid, it was not consistently carried out under a coalition agreement. As a result, pensions are still lagging behind, less than before. Unlike previous coordination, the calculation is now in November harmonisation and February, but pensions are still lagging behind. An additional problem for those who were supposed to receive their rights under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act from this register was the Social Transfers Act, which detracted from 6 pension insurance rights, which we do not understand as a social transfer, but rather as rights that are not. And, among other things, that is why we did not support the marriage at the time. Of course, it is good to hear that we have reduced public spending, but we have also reduced it at the price of 20 million euros in savings in the past year at the expense of the poorest in this country. We have saved 20 million or 2.5 times more than the financial consequences announced by the Minister of Finance at the time of the introduction of the law in the field of social transfers. This means that 20 million euros have been affected by those who are most difficult to live, and a whole range of those who would not have been affected if the law were only applicable to social transfers, or if it did not go very far in the area of rights under different laws. I'm referring to the rights under the law on unemployment benefits, hospital stock, family benefits and the like. Of course, the problem in the budget is for me, too, that they are shrinking in the global social resources, with favourable economic growth and with big words about prosperity, which of course is not going together. One of the reasons for social peace would also be that this law would not be adopted, but was accepted and social unrest began. Let's hope not for too long, because it's possible to fix these mistakes last year. The problem is that the picture would be even more favourable in public finances if everyone paid taxes, but we saw that some people had just sent a tax bill to the wrong address, and things were out of date and didn't have to be paid at all. A total of 25 billion Slovenian tolars or 100 million euros were not collected for pension and disability insurance last year. Of course, then, the state's crying that it has to co-finance certain rights is unjustifiable. It will help the PPIZ home registry law not to do so in the years to come; however, this law has only come to the ground now. The problem is the reduction of health resources, where we have unfinished large projects to face. These are the Paediatric Clinic, the Oncology Institute and so on, and the long waiting periods in the absence of doctors, too little money to reward them and reward other health workers, which, of course, closes the circle of discontent by healthcare providers and users on the other hand. These solutions disturb me, and I will support this budget with a heavy heart, because I think that other measures can be taken next year, including by enacting a law on the termination of the law on social transfers, to correct the picture a little bit, and by some measures in the field of health and health insurance, as also stated in the coalition contract, but this has not yet happened, it is said that we would reconsider the way in which insurance is provided and consider again how we will define the mandatory basket. I must say that it would be good not to let some SDS soldier speak nonsense on the ground, for example, how Mrs Metka Uhan has dealt with the finance minister and provided funds for the school in the Valley of the German Village. This simply cannot be done because we are just going to vote on it. And she is not to blame for this statement, but the president of the SDS in Trebnje told her on the municipal council. Without need, we'll vote on this, I support this amendment, I don't need glory, but you're telling the truth on the ground, so the MP won't be offended because it's nothing to blame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! In the debate on the general part of the budget, a person cannot go beyond the conclusion that it is actually an electoral state budget, I mean the next election year. My intention is not to criticize this eventual weakness, but it is a fact. Like the fact that we have relatively high economic growth, that we have relatively high inflation, and that we have relatively high budgetary revenues and even higher budgetary expenditure. The question is whether what we heard in the introduction of the Minister of Finance is still acceptable in the explanatory statement, on the committees, in particular on the Committee on Finance, we have listened to the same way of measuring the financial policy performance of the current government, without a new request, through the share of the deficit in the social product. Perhaps this was the appropriate way when medium - term goals were set. Today, when we have some kind of confusion, on the one hand high growth, which we know is clear, as the profession says, partial credit, especially because of the way in which highways are built, and in that part we could say that there is no kind of real growth, and on the other hand high inflation, which we know is not just outside of us or outside, that the fault is not just food, that the fault is not just oil and oil derivatives, but something insurmountable but present. The question is whether this is a good enough measure to objectively measure the quality of public finances policy, including the state budget. I'm sure you don't. Despite high growth, economic growth is unsustainable that we have 11.3% growth in budget expenditure in the coming year, such a growth rate, and that I will not be misunderstood, we are not used in any other country where we had high inflation rates, but no nominal growth was such at the time. Therefore, the question is becoming more and more serious whether it is not time that, in addition to measuring the share of the deficit in gross national income or domestic income, I apologize, no other objective indicator would have to be measured. I am sure that, and probably would then be responsible, not by a relationship of position:the opposition, because, after all, it is a common responsibility, for the most important document, which is the State budget, this satisfaction is significantly lower or we could all be open to some other indicators, a view of a significantly more complex problem than is shown by the measure to which we are increasingly doubting if it is appropriate. Why is that doubt? If in such a favourable economic situation it is not possible to bring the state budget into a state of at least positive zero, if not already surpluses, then when will this be possible? I do not deny success, but also the Government's success in eliminating the steps towards the definitive abolition of the tax, let's say on the payroll of one salary. However, I ask whether it has not been a mature situation for us to finally abolish this tax in terms of the burden of the economy. It is clear from the Government's material that it is planning EUR 265 million in absolute terms. If we recalculate it or for so much apparent revenue or expenditure, it is not a significant difference, we would still have an index 106 or more between 6 or 7% of the real budget growth, and this would still be higher than the rate of growth, economic growth, but usually real expenditure or revenue, however you wish, should be lagging behind the rate of economic growth or any other indicator. I wouldn't repeat the numbers he's operating on. I will not say that they are consciously unilateral or that those who are more favourable to the explanation of such or other policies are used to explain such or other purposes, but in both explanation and some debates, not only today, but also on the Committee on Finance there is a general confusion. We are unconsistent, once we use one criterion, secondly, once absolute, secondly relative, and we do not want to show through the same dawn as the issues that are fundamentally different. Of course, there is something else to note in this regard. I'm not going to talk about the methodology he's operating on. This is important because of the same approach and comparison on an international scale. However, there is some fact that at least three net balances or three accounts are forgotten, as we call it, when the deficit in public finances is reduced by the share of gross domestic product. First time. We forget that this year 2007 is a major change, not only that we are a full member of the European Union, but this is a new financial perspective. Everyone can see how much the net position is in the European Union's relationship:Slovenia. It is a purely normal difference, as far as we are paying into the European Union and as far as we are supposed to get. The second is a problem I'm not going to touch, the drawing of these funds. This gives purely other options for closing the budget and managing public finances when this was not the case. If I'm not mistaken, it's about 460 million euros. Another time. A similar situation of net impact for the budget is in the amended legislation on the financing of municipalities, in two parts, in the area of income and in the field of investment. Of course, the assessment that the current costs, or without investment transfers, are improving the position of municipalities is simply not sustainable, because you have passed the law, from this year to the second year, the appropriate spending and thus the allocated revenue from the state budget, if I am not mistaken, is increasing by 2.7%, the financial compensation for the incomprehensible reasons even 1.4, income from income, which is the main source of income for this in the state budget, and by 19.7%, because it is no longer in the state budget or because the municipalities share the same fate as the state budget in the main source, that is an income. It is true that there is more to investment in local communities than in the past. But why is there more? It's the European funds. And it would be correct to indicate the share of own resources for this purpose for investments and the share or absolute number of funds we receive. Or, if I simplify: from the impact of the full-fledged Member in the European Union, the positive differences have significantly facilitated or improved the conditions for financing investments, that is the basic reason in local communities, and I will in fact say, the domestic part of public finances or the domestic budget. This also allows for a reduction of the deficit, which has not occurred in the previous period. And this needs to be justified and measured, as is the case with growth, economic growth, where more than 1% of the points on the road are built, and this is building on credit. Therefore, it is questionable whether this share of growth is taken into account in public spending, rather than exceeding, as in our case, when nominal growth in budgetary expenditure is almost twice as high as economic growth. And the third time. This is demonstrated unilaterally, but refers to the same content, the net impact balance in the state budget, this is Dars' designation, on the one hand, and the placement of Darsa's issues or costs of investment in rail infrastructure. I agree with Dr. Bajuk, Minister of Finance, that it is necessary to look at the overall, that work should be carried out for a longer period. And it's very interesting to make a net calculation if we do this for these three segments. It is easy to calculate how much manoeuvre space this has created in measuring the public financial deficit through the share of the gross domestic product. This is not a reading, but a warning, if we are to be objective, must also read the material prepared by the applicant. I repeat the question. If, in such a favourable situation as they are currently forecasting for the future, it would not be possible to relieve the economy more or increase its competitiveness, particularly through stupidity, in the past, but there was no other way of looking at it, a tax on wages. I ask: When, for free, do I believe that I will not get an answer like I did on the Finance Committee, if not now, when will the conditions for this be, for 265 million euros, such as this burden? We are talking about the positive effects of tax policy reforms. Undoubtedly, I do not deny it, but the question is whether they are large enough, if they are of sufficient quality and if they are sufficiently burdening the actual economy. Two tax sources: corporate income or income tax and payment list tax. The tax on the payment sheet was substantially reduced due to the abolition of certain categories. However, in total, they achieve roughly once again in 2008 in the structure as much as they did in a common earlier useful measure, showing that tax reforms in effect in the field of the burden of the economy on income tax are higher than they were in the past. We have noted this when this law was adopted, but there was no understanding of these comments. However, it is probably also time for the effects or actual decommissioning of the economy to be greater than it has been achieved. Finally, what he wanted to draw attention to in this general debate is the budgetary assessment through a formal legal perspective. I submit that the three items are based on the basis which are unconstitutional as a result of the decision of the Constitutional Court on the law on the financing of municipalities. What three? On the income side, income, because the decision now makes it clear what income is, visa withdrawals or, if you want, a source in the state budget. This is one of the main items on the revenue side that is questionable, if not already in the whole of 2008, as someone objected to it, because the end of October is one year from the end of this unconstitutional period, following a decision of the Constitutional Court. However, this will happen again, so much more is presented in the 2009 budget if I skip another year ahead. As a result, two items are questionable on the expenditure side. These are complementary funds to municipalities or so-called financial settlement, which is illogical to remain at the same absolute number in practice and speculate there with some of their own revenue that are questionable. The second is the result of investment transfers to municipalities, which is a direct consequence of Article 23 of the Law on the Financing of Communities, for which the Constitutional Court has indisputably found that it does not comply with the Constitution. That's what we've been alerting some of us to at his reception. There was no understanding, but I do not accept it, I say this in advance, the answer that some people are trying to provide if the Constitutional Court has not repealed the law. No, he found that he was unconstitutional, not in accordance with the Constitution. From this, we are incoherent in the constitution of the law that has been passed, but we are producing an inadequate state budget and another state budget. That's it. However, for some other comments, which are specifically relevant, I hope that there will be an opportunity to discuss individual amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u53	Thank you very much. To the word of the apostle Rudi the Versner.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister, the secretaries, the distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Well, there was no black scenario of an increase in value added tax that was announced last year by colleagues and colleagues in the opposition when the 2007 and 2008 budgets were considered. He was most loud as usual, Mr. Squeakl. But look at the fragment, again with his demagogic statements he deceived journalists and the Slovenian public. Just so we can remember his statements that he won't be able to say it's not true. I quote a magnetogram, dated 17 November 2006, when the distinguished gentleman finishes his speech, quote: "The President of the Government has ordered his new strategic world: As your first task, tell me where to take 50 billion tolars that I do not have yet in the 2008 budget, because I am afraid to raise value added tax and I will not do that until the end of 2007." End of quote. Your Honor! A little longer, and the last month of 2007 will begin. Janez Janša has not yet raised the value added tax, and today we are considering a proposal for amending the 2008 budget. The revenue of the 2008 budget has increased by just over €496 million since the original proposal, which means 6% more than the estimated revenue for last year's budget proposal, so that the budget revenue for 2008 will amount to €8.6 billion, the budget deficit will continue to decrease and will be 0.6% less than that foreseen in the 2008 budget. Tax revenues in gross social product have been reduced to 20.37% of gross social product since 2006, which means that the tax legislation adopted has been in force. 40% of the salary tax has been abolished and will be abolished in 2009. Thus, the Government has successfully eliminated the greatest nonsense proposed by the so-called LDS Finance Minister. It's a good thing he got out of the presidential game in time. As a result of the abnormal rise in oil prices, excise duties are also declining and are already at the lowest levels. The new tax legislation also reduces the corporate income tax, from 25 to 23 and gradually to 20%. Trends in investment in technological development have begun, rather than initially in buildings, such as the previous budget practice. Another reason why the tax on the income of legal persons increases from year to year is the end of the certificate-owned enterprises when the poverty of enterprises has ceased and the transfer of funds to accounts abroad. These big managers, who are rich tycoons today, then bought businesses in cash without anyone asking where they got the money. Even so, and the best neighbor has made more profits from year to year since he is not in the administration of the most capable manager who has successfully laundered money for his pocket, through his company, which was also found in the audit. On the expenditure side of the amended 2008 budget, the Government continues to pursue the policy it has set at the time of its takeover. By guaranteeing the state, it ensures the smooth construction and completion of motorway links. Moreover, new so-called development axes are opening up, and from budgetary money it allocates significantly more resources to modernise regional and local roads, which have been neglected in the past and in several areas overloaded by the construction of motorways. Despite the accelerated construction of motorways and the updating of regional and local roads, we are looking forward to an unbearable hold-up in the near future, especially in the larger cities and the capital itself. I therefore appeal to the competent authorities to prepare projects intensively for the third belt and, as soon as possible, to build the Želodnik-Vodice connector, as traffic trends are greater than the greatest optimists dared to predict. Because of this situation on our roads and because of the threat of the northern neighbours finally in Slovenia, the railway is also given the importance it must have and which it has undeniably had in history. The government pays all the attention and resources necessary to modernise the infrastructure in the Slovenian corridor, as well as the existing local links. There will also be a reduction in resources for the protection of the unemployed, which confirms that we are at the lowest level of unemployment in Slovenia since there is a single country. The government has taken a very responsible approach to the recovery of the catastrophic floods at the time of the disaster, and with the same seriousness, intervention measures have also been launched for the smooth recovery of the consequences. Allow me to devote a few words to inflation, which we hear from the other side, how the government does nothing to curb it. We must be aware that Slovenia is a small economy without some tradition in the market economy and that the three traders have a majority share in the field of food retail. At the time of taking over the euro, a social consensus was applied in Slovenia to achieve this objective and double price labelling. For failure, the culprit could be identified quickly, so no one dared to take the risk. The prices of food and energy on the world market have also been more stable. With the steady growth of energy in this year and the high rise in the prices of cereals and food, both producers and traders took advantage of the situation, especially because this was the first opportunity after the transition to the euro. I am sure that this has happened through a mutual agreement that cannot be proved. How solidarity they are, we can see in the Tarsus show, and also that they are able to lie and hide their margins despite undisputed evidence. Traders are not prepared to reduce their margin to the exact same amount as before the bidding. Moreover, the almighty three even threatens to expel those suppliers who will deal with their true competition, such as Hofer and Lidl, who are coming to our market, from their stores. Of course, this is not evident either, but there is fire where there is smoke. Your Honor! As I follow the discussions on the budget, it has never happened that everyone would be pleased with it. The opposition has always criticised him, and the position has, on the contrary, defended him. That's what we're witnessing today. The proposal for amending the 2008 budget is good, development-oriented and realistic, and I will therefore be happy to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u55	Thank you very much. And I would like to take the floor with you, Member Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. I must say that it would be very nice for everyone in this National Assembly to make an effort to contribute in their own way to raising political culture. But we're always surprised by the opposition. In fact, last time the president of the SD said that they would show the public a new quality in communicating with the public. Today, Mr Squeakl has also presented this to us in practice. I have not seen in any Parliament such a solo orgy of presentation, as Mr Squeakl performed in this National Assembly, which I have had the opportunity to monitor. Look, let's go a little bit in a row. If we start with the key emphasis that this government has no response to economic challenges. And let's see what the official documents say about this, say, Umar's record, in which we can read the following from 2003, when it was, you won't believe, in the power of this particular Pahor's SD, we read that "in the last quarter, economic growth rises from 2.6 to 2.9%", a remarkable achievement, there is nothing. And after we go to look at inflation data, what we can figure out: in 2000 there was just one information, but it was not yet the mandate of the new government, 2001 7.4% inflation, which was the mandate of this government, in which Pahor's SD also participated, then next year 6.9% inflation and so on. A little down towards the end, but the average, you won't believe, was still somewhere between 5% and 6% in the mandate when this government was involved and when this Mr. Squeakl minister was in this government for some time. That's very interesting information. And if we compare this to the current state of what the data say now: we have a stable economic growth period of 6.5% and therefore more than twice as high as it was then. More than twice as high, ladies and gentlemen, I think we all have enough math to master. And we have a period when, if we went to calculate the average inflation in this government's mandate, this inflation is more than half the lower. Very interesting! Of those who have already had the opportunity to lead this country and have proven to have achieved twice the inflation rate at twice the economic growth, they hope to refer to this Government as "no response to economic challenges". And let anyone else say that pompousness is not one of the principal sins. Let's move on. Mr Cvikl, on behalf of the SD Group, stated that we were financing the area of defence and that he had listed the purchase of Patrie. Now we have to go through the files again. Who's committed to this? Mr. Janez Janša? No, no, it is evident that I can present public documents, and I am also speaking as the leader of the parliamentary group in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, Mr Tone Rop, the President of the previous government, who you will not believe, is now in the same Group of the same Pahors SD, from which they are now sending us a message for what we are trying to deliver, one urgent promise they have made to the world public themselves. Great, I have to say, this is really a contribution to Slovenian political culture. And we're moving on, that's not all. The next observation went to 100% private school funding with church background. That's what Mr. Squeakl specifically stressed. Yeah, who made it legal?Oh, my God! Mr Janez Kocjančič, Mr Ciril Ribič and all other Members and Members of the Pahorje SD, the current Pahorje SD, who, at that time in 1996, positively identified themselves until the then proposal for a law on financing education and education proposed by Mr Gaber, for which, of course, all LDS and others from the then coalition voted. If you want to show the poster, you have it up in your office, you can go look for it. Let's move on. VAT reduction. Look at this, this same Mr. Squeakle is at some of the previous sessions, I remember well last year, he said in a loud voice that he knows - not to assume that he knows that we will be forced to raise VAT next year. Now comes from the same opposition proposals to reduce VAT because it has turned out to be such a quality economy that conditions also allow us to do so in practice. Isn't it wonderful when the economy completely puts you on a lie?Oh, my God! And there's somewhere else, you know. Mr. Squeakle said earlier that the government doesn't want to withdraw. So he's calling for a resignation again. You've had your chance. The President of the Government, that's evident, and you all know that very well, he offered to step down. And then he specifically invited you to take responsibility - not only for the management of this country and its economy, but also for the management of the entire European Union. And you ran away by smoking all over Slovenia, away from it. It's easy to talk, but it's hard to work and accept responsibility. That's the way it is. That's evident, ladies and gentlemen. And the whole public knows that very well. But you're amazing that you're so clever that then you use this as an argument, "kobayagi" argument of course, in this discussion. Let's keep going so we don't think this list is over. Member of the SD, or your colleague, then informed the government that it had not restructured the food industry in time. Now let's see who's at the head of this food industry, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Scrot. You won't believe who said publicly that he was a member of this same Pahor's SD. And let someone else tell me that these people don't know how to play beautifully. 60-year practice, passed on to a modern age. Congratulations. All I regret is that the methods haven't changed. That proves, by the way, your Vice President, Mr Luksic. Well, then there's something else. To conclude, we may present the rest tomorrow when we have another interesting debate. I quote again, "the latest data suggests the opposition will take over." Ladies and gentlemen, the latest data show that trends have turned, that is to say, things are going in the right direction, because that answer to that basic observation that the government has no response to economic challenges is simple because it comes from those who have been proven, because they have had this opportunity for many years, twice as bad in the management of the Slovenian economy, but given the fact that inflation is quadratically worse economic growth, and four times worse, then the best response to Slovenian economic challenges is that you remain in the opposition for at least one more term. That this is also the opinion of the Slovenian economy, ladies and gentlemen, was shown on the day the President of the Slovenian Government announced the resignation. The biggest stock drop in the history of Slovenia was followed. This is a signal from the economy that the economy is still aware of who can lead the Slovenian economy in a qualitative way and is afraid to die of getting the opportunity back to the one who is proven to be worse. And here before us is a budget that is the product of the great work of this government, which is the product of the supreme economic success that reflects people's real desires. It is therefore worth supporting this budget because it is development-oriented, because it is qualitatively composed, because it primarily expresses everything we all want to lead a self-run Slovenia and to lead the European Union well. And that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u57	Thank you very much. My friend Grimes, I know you know this, but the index has also been reddated to look for better liquidity in terms of investing in other investments. But, as we say, we're opening another circuit to report. Comrade Squeakle, the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u58	Thank you very much. These Grimes fairy tales need only be answered with one number. VAT, nominal rate in the 2008 draft budget, as adopted in November 2006, VAT growth, 110.2. Two reasons for that growth. One. Raise rates from 20 to 21. And second reason: relatively low inflation foreseen in 2008 as expected in 2006. But look at him, draft amending the 2008 budget, without amending the VAT, increasing taxes on the income of legal persons, taxes on the marketing of products, not 110,2, but 109,7. So for a little bit less. Why? Nothing lifts, but Mr Grimes, inflation is higher. And when you have inflation 10% higher than you thought, 20% of the VAT rate just comes for so much and so much more revenue in the state budget. That is why this government is one of the few governments that will no doubt create much more inflationary problems. It's called that, and I explained it to the minister the last time, and he hasn't gone to see, "Olriva dance effect." He is known in the former Yugoslavia, he is known in Argentina, where countries are simply constantly hunting for less valuable commodity funds because of their own inflexibility. That's the story: you'll all get it. Promises for, I don't know how many, circles and highways, and I don't know what else. The only result of all of this will be a 35% higher price of a square meter space or a mile long highway. Mr Grims, it is only necessary to say about your fairy tales that they are given numbers simply very quickly to be interpreted. And Slovenia, which has taken over the euro and has a fixed rate, cannot afford that you still have a Member's salary in the long run of such high inflation. And that's why it's a common problem, maybe not yours, but I hope it's the problem of the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, who I have a feeling is not aware of. The opposition must warn of that. That's the way it is in democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u59	Thank you very much. In view of the expressed desire to reopen the circle, please apply in conjunction with the general part of the 2008 draft amending budget. I'm opening the procedure. I'm asking you to sign up. We have 11 MPs registered. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Changes in the budget for 2008 The National Assembly is considering and I am sure that it will also accept them, in the light of the placement of Slovenia, the European Union, its achievements at home. And I'd like to point out a few of these. In 2007 we achieved 91% of the European Union's GDP in Slovenia, measured by purchasing power. This is data, by the way, Eurostat. What are the important milestones we face or face in Slovenia? I'm sure I'll take the euro. We are the only new EU member among the 12 youngest that has succeeded. Tax reform, which was adopted here in the National Assembly, should also be considered among the milestones. Economic growth in Slovenia is above average, only Ireland and Luxembourg have faster economic growth. Real economic growth also comes second. Our data and results are high after real export growth. Investments in fixed assets as the richest growth are good. The richest growth, by the way, is a statement made by the former Prime Minister of the Government of Mr Rope in 2005. The number of unemployed is lowest after 1991, approximately 4.6%. Slovenia is estimated to achieve the medium-term objective of the Stability and Growth Pact by the Ministry of Finance this year, reducing the country's structural deficit below 1% of gross domestic product, which is expected to be achieved by 2009. We note a reduction in the tax burden on the population and the economy, while reducing the country's deficit. If we are talking about reducing the tax burden on the population, it should be said that the result of income legislation is about 160 000 taxpayers less than in the past. The share of the tax revenue of the state budget has been declining since 2006, 22% in 2006, 21.1% this year, 20.4% in 2008 and 19.9% of the tax share of the gross social product, and for the first time in the history of Slovenia alone, we will go below the magic limit of 20% of the gross domestic product. Due to changes in tax legislation, the average net real salary increased by 6.5% from 2004 to 2007, the real net minimum wage increased by 5.2% in the same period. Some of the opposition colleagues today expressed some strange homesickness to the former SFRJ, which we could hear on several occasions as if they had forgotten that the seat of the Prince's Stone is in the Land of the World. Some people think he's on the Grandad. Of some, we have heard that in 2009 we will only have that reduced VAT rate of 5%. A good pre-election promise; I want it to come true and really come true. Unfortunately, I cannot believe that these calculations of some economists, self-proclaimed or others, who are also in the previous mandate for an economic society, where I worked with about 5,000 other colleagues, said that the story was lost, and convinced the government at the time that it had given too little State aid, too low. This meant, in fact, only some debt payments to the State, not State aid in terms of restructuring. At that time, we understood that this is a mockery of about 25,000 Pomurs, who are either directly or indirectly dependent on the largest European hairdresser in Murska Sobota. It is clear that the coalition accepts two or more amendments to the budget, to the 2008 amendments and to the 2009 budget proposed by colleague Pozsoncheva and colleague Battelli, is a mockery from the Hungarian and Italian minorities. We really don't have to do this. For this mockery, so that the LDS colleagues could then say that we bought the votes of those Members with 80,000 euros. In Slovenia we have too high a standard, exemplary for Europe and more, as discussed in the Constitution of certain rights of national minorities. We are talking about the bad signals sent by Europe to Slovenia. It is necessary to say and to interpret all this information in an integrated manner. That's why I'm going to read them. Brussels 9 November, by chance two days before the presidential elections, European Commissioner Almunia, the European Commission's spring economic forecast for growth in Slovenia was not appropriate. The Slovenian government, not me, was right today, and on 9 November in Brussels, the European Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs, Joaquin Almunia, also presented the autumn forecast. In it, Brussels has significantly increased the growth forecast for Slovenia and has also highlighted the country's high inflation. "I am very concerned about inflation in Slovenia, but this is not due to the introduction of the euro," said Almunia. Almunia made it clear that Slovenia is sending a very bad signal with its high inflation to those countries that are in the waiting room for the introduction of the euro in the future. 12 November: Slovenia is not a bad signal for other countries in relation to all indicators; the European Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs, Joaquin Almunia, reminded Slovenia only of inflation, said its leader, Prime Minister Jean Claude Junker, after a meeting of the Euro Group, which was also attended by Slovenian Finance Minister Andrej Bajuk. According to him, Slovenia is doing quite well in the area of fiscal consolidation and in reducing the budget deficit. I will not say that Mr Almunia is a socialist by heart, but if we are talking about information coming from Europe, then we are talking about all the information related to some content in Slovenia. But I don't want to say that I personally ignore the problems of inflation that we are definitely dealing with and facing in Slovenia and we have to deal with it. Interestingly, quite a few of my colleagues have already talked about; about a year ago; the VAT raise forecasts. I think that if I ask the award question, who is the author of the text that I will read, and was told on the Finance Committee on 20 October 2006, I quote: "The first big problem of the 2008 budget is unrealistic, with much higher taxes, a closed budget. I'll explain. Every year since we introduced VAT, the annual VAT increase is about 5 to 6%. Only in 2008, in the last year of the mandate of Mr Janez Janša and the Government, which runs it, has the Government firmly stated in documents and in papers that the VAT increase is 12%, namely 11.9. Twice as many. Anyone who knows a little difference between exogenous, endogenous factors will find that this is not because of economic growth, not because of economic growth, but because of the changed rate." End of quote. I don't think you can answer this question because of the rules of procedure, so that I can give you the prize, but these were the discussions that went on forever and, of course, scared the Slovenian public. Yeah, well, who wouldn't be afraid if someone in this room is predicting an increase in value added tax?Oh, my God! I quote: "Every year, from 1999 to 2006, including 2007, growth was about 5 to 6%. In 2008 alone, growth is 12% according to 2007. And the factor of this, Mr President, is, endogenous factors of economic growth, increased consumption, 5, 6 percentage points and a higher rate of 20 to 21 additional 5 percentage points. 1 percentage point from 20 to 21 is exactly 5% growth. And it is known that the lower rate is also expected to rise from 8.5 to 9 percentage points. This is the first reading of the 2008 budget. The second floor of the budget house is unrealistic, closed. Request to raise value added tax" - at the same meeting, same author, October 20, 2006. To conclude the meeting of the Committee on Finance and to move to the meeting of the National Assembly, on 17 November 2006, I quote colleague mag. Milana M. Squeak: "Liberal democracy will not support the 2008 supplementary draft budget. We repeat, this is an unrealistic budget. This budget is based on the non-existent 50 billion sources of value-added tax and excise duty." Mr President, I am simply quoting and I would like to illustrate to the Slovenian public how important it is to listen to what someone in this House is saying. Of course, a lot of things have changed. Mr Squeakl will probably never again, on behalf of the LDS, represent the position, and his prediction, thank God, has not come true. And another little thing, I quote the same author: "Because the reserve is shrinking, but not increasing, and because we have all these resources, which are extremely questionable, it will be impossible for economic reasons, unless we limit consumption, unless it saves in the last year of the Janša government, to close the budget without raising VAT." And that's exactly what we're doing. We're closing the budget without VAT. Dear colleagues and colleagues! No VAT raises, thank you, Mr Anderlich, thank you very much. I conclude my debate for the time being by expressing my satisfaction with the proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and by predicting that I will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Martin Mikolić.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! It is interesting to listen to the debate on the budget, and if you allow it, I would add some of my own thoughts. I would like to start by reminding all those representatives of the opposition, who were very critical of the change in the 2008 budget and the 2009 budget, that a week ago, which has already been mentioned here, the President of the Government said if anyone believes he is more capable of forming a government and starting work. Perhaps you also understood that this meant that the so-called new government could also prepare a change in the 2008 budget and the 2009 budget. I think you've all been aware of this at the time, and I think it's rather unfair that we hear from some people today on the basis of this offer, I have to stress some, so much criticism. Some representatives of the opposition, I think, have also had quite a proper discussion. Whether this government is a real fiscal policy or not, much has been heard from the Committee on Finance, on the budget or on the budget changes that are being prepared and on the budget for 2009. It was heard that this fiscal policy was inappropriate, based on overheating the economy, in view of this good situation, even overheating the budget, one of the opposition's representatives mentioned on the Committee - an overheated budget or a change in the budget for 2008. Today it was even heard that it was the best, the most anti-inflationary budget ever prepared by the former government for 2005, the first year after the government's appearance. Since we may still remember well or remember what kind of budget it was, I would say, if it was overheated, then it must have been the one that was hypothermia. At the time, some forgot that financial resources for teachers’ salaries should also be allocated, and a number of things were forgotten in the budget. And we know that at the time we changed the budget, fixed it and patched it up 70 billion - I am speaking now in tolars - the hole that was in the budget. And today to say that this was the most anti-inflationary budget, I do not think it is the most appropriate. Just as some have explained that this budget or changes in the 2008 budget in view of the good economic situation, which in fact everyone recognises, this budget could be more targeted in terms of savings and so on. I believe the Minister of Finance has presented well to the world. You know, if we included railways in the 2008 and 2009 budget changes, then it would be very difficult to implement a budget that would not have a deficit. At the same time, this was also highlighted, if this were not the case, the budget could already be flattened in 2009. And I'm sure it could be that way. It is very important for me in this budget that, despite the fact that the government has reduced the deficit on the basis of all changes in tax legislation, which therefore means on the revenue side of this title, despite the fact that it is on the expenditure side in relation to the needs of Slovenia, regarding the planned investments for which we are spending more resources, this is clear, we cannot now hide here that it is not, however, that the deficit is smaller. And given the proposed budget, I am also convinced that we are not only working for the summer of 2008, 2009 but also for the future. You know that NRPs are accepted for a four-year period and certain investments are somehow ending in the period 2008-2009, but they are also starting with this financial year. Moa colleague from the New Slovenia Group, Cyril Testen and Jožef Horvat have already told me almost everything, everything that seems very important to us in Novi Slovenija in terms of whether the budget is good or not. I do not intend to list here again or to read certain indicators, which certainly confirm to us that the budget is development-oriented, that we are eliminating from a tax perspective certain taxes that are actually a burden on the economy. I have repeatedly said with satisfaction that even craftsmen, entrepreneurs admit and often also publicly say, this is also happening on the day of the trade, that this government has only gone a step with them to try them in terms of economic stress, it is true to try to create a better environment for this area, that it has done so much, and that they are also satisfied. I will support the draft budget, the 2008 budget changes, and the budget proposed for 2009. The amendments, amendments, are certainly important, and I am also convinced that these amendments, which are proposed, need to be supported by those that we have also endorsed on the Committee, because they are also very important in terms of the development of certain undeveloped areas in Slovenia. They are important for coherent regional development, as we know they relate mainly to investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u63	Thank you very much. But to my word, I call on Ambassador Ivan Grill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the government! As I listen to this debate today, I hope that it is also listened to by economic experts and also by journalists who are aware in the economic field that from now on they will call Mr. Brickle a miracle boy. So many deceptions, untruths, interesting theories are hard to hear in one place. That inflation is the same as raising VAT, I have never heard it before, and I have studied the economy, and I believe that the rest have not. However, even if this increase in the budget on the revenue side were to be attributed to inflation and, as a result, slightly more tax, it would be difficult to attribute it, because this inflation occurs only in September or October, since it is compared to 2006, when the tax was deflation, and therefore the jump is so high and, last but not least, in one month of this tide certainly cannot be as much as it is actually in this budget, which is purely the result of good economic policy, a good economic climate. And that's the result of this government's work in the last three years. Once again, Mr Cwickle has been deceiving here that more funds are being allocated in this budget for the Court's palaces. As a demagogic deception, it was fully explained that more judicial resources were intended to reduce judicial backlogs. This is a key reason to devote more resources. We know that the entire judicial or judicial profession has always stressed that if there are no more funds for this area, it is not possible to expect a reduction in judicial backlog. Deception to reduce funds for social transfers. This is also misleading, for in the budget, in a relative sense, these items are really slightly reduced, but not to anyone who is entitled or entitled to social transfers, what is wrong with this. These resources are therefore needed less because more people are employed and fewer are in need of social assistance. Here's the reason for the smaller amount. As low a state of unemployment as we have now, it has not been in Slovenia alone. In Slovenia we now have about 994,000 active people. We have never had such data in Slovenia. And so many people contribute to the treasury of the state budget. Here is the reason that we have so much more inflow on the revenue side and therefore social transfers or those items can be reduced. Not to take something away from someone. And the number of people who need social assistance is less than last year, about. 8600 less. There's still too many, but I'm sure there'll be fewer every year. If the economic flow of all that we have witnessed in recent years goes this way, we can be sure of that. Then the next trick, I have to turn to Mr. Squeak again, about pensions. It is he who will explain pensions when a law was passed during his government, which took more than one pension in this way to our pensioners. It was only in 2005 that this government immediately adopted an amendment to that law, which softened these matters and now brings pensions closer or closer to wage increases. That someone was deceiving, or at the time he was still in the colors of the LDS, now he's in Pahor's Social Democracy, but there's probably no reason to change the record. We are listening here today so that we can reduce the deficit in such a favourable economic climate. We have already reduced it: from 2.3 in 2004 to 0.6% of the gross social product. In the next year, it'll only be 0.3. True, we could even have a surplus, but then we wouldn't have as much investment as we have. Now this budget follows an optimal path, a lower deficit and at the same time follows the needs of the economy and also the expectations of our people. Let's see how much money is spent on building roads. And absurd again those who speak here that it would be necessary to achieve surpluses in the budget are proposing amendments to build roads. There's still not enough money for the roads. I'm not talking about highways that have another source of funding. But mostly for state roads that have been neglected in the last 15 years. It is only in the last three years that we have seen progress here to normalise things again, because we had holes before, no new state roads. And that was true, extremely critical. We now have over €147 million for roads. This is not enough, but twice or three times as much as it was in previous mandates. If we give it up, I'm sure we can have a surplus of the budget, but that's not what we want, none of us. Here again is an obvious way of financing highways. Various sections were financed through the budget in previous mandates. And where did we come from? That after 17 years we still don't have the basic highway cross built. If we had managed to agree on such a way by then, the highways would have been completed today. And every euro of credit, which is designed to build highways, I firmly believe, will return more than one euro to that added value. For the first time, motorways will be paid off by toll users, including foreigners who drive through Slovenia, and not only by taxpayers. And the next, very important information is that highway or road infrastructure has driven economic development. Let me just say one case from the bottom environment. Only a confirmed state location plan, where the motorway is known to be taking place, sold land for the new economic zones in full within a few months. It means that motorways will continue to raise economic interest and, of course, also the development and decentralisation of Slovenia, so that the economy will also develop somewhere, not only in larger centres, but as much as throughout Slovenia. So this is the right way, and if these highways are built, I'm sure that development will be much faster. Finally, I must reiterate that we have not yet had so much funding in the area of construction and maintenance of roads as it is intended for 2007, 2008 and 2009 in Slovenia. And I am extremely glad that, even for Dolenjska, White Krajina, from this part of Slovenia, which has been neglected, we now have in these budgets or on these items so much resources. And only the last expectation, or also the request, or the demand for the economy of Dolenjska. When the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was on its last visit in June, the economists made it clear, build us a highway and nothing more than we expect, we can do the rest on our own. And this is the main expectation, so it is right that motorways are built in this way, as they have so far been, that we will continue to make the appropriate funds for this. Of course, I will also support such a budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Member Happy Hwauc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u66	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. We all agree here, too, personally that pensioners want higher pensions, like employees' salaries, and that money is usually never too much. However, given how Cvikl discussed 350 and 400 euros of wages, it is important to stress once again that pensions - I apologize, it is necessary to stress once again that this government was the one and only one and the first, and Parliament has supported this, to change the alignment of pensions with wage growth. If that were not the case, some pensioners would be in a much worse position. He already mentioned that they were actually robbed for one whole pension in the previous period. That is why I think it is wrong that, through the debates in this Parliament, it is somehow playing with the feelings of the pensioners to say in the debate that there will be less funding for pension payments in this budget. The less educated and less skilled of these various word acrobatics could conclude that pensions are threatened, that they will not be paid regularly, that they will be smaller. But that doesn't even hold. That's not true. Pensioner's checkout is off-limits. Pensioner's checkout will be on a regular basis at the rate of, by law, monthly pension insurance. Why, though, can we afford to see that these resources are slightly smaller in the budget? First of all, this. Budget is not the primary source of pensions. That's what happened in our system. Pension boxes should also be filled from other or mainly from other sources. And one such source is KAD. This year, the funds that will come from KAD to the pension fund will increase significantly and will reach almost €50 million. That is why we can afford to have slightly less resources in the budget. When it is established to dispose of certain assets, and when it is established to fill the pension fund. And if the increase in resources coming from the KAD allows higher dividends, the cost-effective treatment of assets given to them in management, if this is due to good economic results, then we can only welcome this in order to defuse the budget and find other sources for stable financing of pension funds. The second thing I listened to was some dramatic words here, two fellow Members of Parliament. One on the left and one on the right. There's no one here. In the 1980s, we are former, deceased, Yugoslav and so on. Of course, it's a debt. When we talk about debt, we need to be precise, which is what we are actually talking about. We know that the country is directly in charge of more than €7 billion. Both respected colleagues spoke of more than 30 billion euros. But let's see what's in these 30 billion euros. In these 30 billion there is a long economy, banks, municipalities and also natural persons. The debt of the country is more than 3 times lower than this common number. And this debt is directly influenced by the government. I guess we don't want to go back to some old time when the state is regulating, I don't know, the debt of the economy, of the natural person. But we are in a democratic country where we have a market economy, we are part of the European Union. One of the fundamental pillars of the European Union's action is also the free movement of capital. And if I try to mitigate these threatening forecasts in these scenarios, we've heard similar predictions in recent years, and none of them have come true. Last time I listened to the president of the European Central Bank, who was just talking about borrowing. And what did he say? Even though Europe has certain limitations, as far as this is concerned, it has said that the main problem is not that we owe ourselves, but that it is a major problem or a problem that can arise, which is why we owe ourselves. If we are in charge of casual consumption or some old obligations, this is a serious problem. However, if we are in charge of investing in infrastructure, in development, in technological development in areas where we can expect some added value in the future, then this should not be a problem. And in this case, in your case, even when we're talking about these heavy duties, that's exactly what this is about. We invest in transport infrastructure and in some other segments exclusively in development, do not cover current business or cover some old losses or mistakes from, I don't know, since when. We have already covered this with the 2005 budget rebalancing and perhaps another one. My friend Squeakle. I have to take another call because it's true, like a humble economist, and I'm deeply disturbed by such things. I know that he has a problem with this because his announcement that VAT must be raised has not come true. There were very serious predictions, supported, I don't know what kind of data, indicators, but it didn't come true. And now he has to somehow get out of it. And the statement he made earlier that VAT does not need to be raised, as inflation does. One economist really shouldn't afford that. Already in high school, not those with scientific titles know that inflation on the one hand affects income, but on the other hand also has an impact on the expenditure side. Just like that, I don't think it really works. It is true that on one of the previous Economic Committees, a respected professor replied that there is a politician and not an economist in Parliament, but nevertheless I think that his education, his knowledge, should not be put aside because of politics. And one more thing. In view of the fact that Cvikl also discussed this, it is a society of advice and management. Whether or not it is a covert debt, whether it is in accordance with the law, or whether it is under ESA or not, and so on. Perhaps this problem or this matter should be clarified in more detail at some point. I mean, what's the point of this society? See, earlier because money is always scarce, the state has been looking for some possibilities for the completion or construction of various facilities, such as gyms or some facilities for the functioning of public administration, ministries and so on. And how did this happen? Those who have acquired enough capital in one way or another over the past period have, of course, offered: we will build you a gym and the country will pay rent. After about 10 years, it was found that the country had given for use or rent about as much as the facility was worth. And we happily pay these rents further. And this different way that goes through DSU, it takes on a different logic. Why would they pay the rent if the lease company could give the State the possibility to use this, say, gym and after 10 years as this leasing is paid, is a state-owned gym. This is the basic principle that is used here and I think it is economic and that it is good for the country. It is true that the effects will only be known in years, but if the state or government treats property responsibly, it does not matter whether it will have effects in a year or two or after ten. The important thing is that one day we'll all have something together. These are just a few examples that show that this budget or these measures, which are envisaged, are not so bad that the bad assumptions of some people, who obviously do not want to understand some things, even though they get them in writing, orally, with numbers, with graphs, with images that they just don't hold it and I think that the budget, like a rebalancing, is good and that is why I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u67	Thank you very much. And I call unto the word the apostle John the Great. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I am obliged to clarify, given the statements made by the president of the Committee on Budgetary Control, given that I have tabled an amendment to the procedure for adoption, but of course it has not been tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This amendment has been tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, three times on the competent committees, but of course not because it should be followed by any of the groups. However, it was also an opportunity to accept this amendment because it is amended because it is substantively good and it is talking about providing EUR 5 million of additional investment for homes for the elderly. If anything is necessary in Slovenia, what move to make is certainly in this area. Slovenia is also becoming an ageing society. And only by private means in this area is it certainly not possible. In particular, I would like to point out that we should invest more of this private or public and private investment in the future. Some pitfalls can only be brought privately, and it would not be good for us to catch them. Currently, it is in Slovenia, as I am aware, a few thousand waiting to be accommodated in nursing homes. I am pleased that the day is a good emphasis on family policy and that these measures are already reaping fruit. The latest data show the birth rate in Slovenia that this is the highest in the last 10 years, which can already mean a reverse trend. It is not said that this trend is reversed only on the basis of family policy, but also on the basis of the climate needed, the willingness to give the necessary attention to this issue. And, of course, I'm glad there's been this shift. It's also about the decline in unemployment. Therefore, there is no need for such large resources for passive forms of aid and in this way more resources can be made available for more demanding programmes, active employment policies in order to adapt to the labour market. Then, an increase in employment, which is also due to economic growth. We can't say there's no effect that he doesn't know in his pockets. The workers probably understood that they didn't know enough in their pockets, which I agree with because they own. Private ownership has seen its profits in this first and foremost, but it has an impact on higher employment. It would also be necessary to calculate how pensioners would have a pension if the matter were to slip under the previous law. Those who did the simulation see that the method of coordination was much better for pensioners. It's just a notorious fact. At the time of adoption of the budget, however, we must ask ourselves whether this budget really responds to an ageing society: with regard to accommodation, services, health services, according to birth rate, and whether this is also a response to a globalised society. Europe is facing a lack of investment and investment escape, capital flight elsewhere. And it will not help us successfully enough, because if there is no investment, then on the basis of this it is not possible to build solid and sustainable prosperity in the Republic of Slovenia. The answer is therefore not only in the budget, but also in other policies.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I call on Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will begin with the words or phrase spoken before me by a colleague of the largest government party in Parliament. He spoke of one of the seven sins called puffyness. But it would be good for him to look at the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language and read the explanation if he did not understand the word. It's good to be aware of the words we speak. You know, talking about the budget, and I'm not going to go into the numbers in detail, because, I admit, I'm not an expert in the financial field, but what's true is that I'm aware that I see and hear the situation in our country and what the budget is in a wide range of areas, respected colleagues and colleagues. We have heard that in 2007 they were important milestones for our country. Slovenia has taken over the euro. Slovenia will chair the European Union in a good month. Slovenia has experienced an enviable economic growth in the past year. But tell me whether citizens and citizens of our country feel this envious economic growth in their pockets. Minister Bajuk said that the effects of the tax reform carried out were also felt by the recipients of the lowest wages. I'm asking you where, in what area. Only the information that 16 thousand people were dependent on minimum wage in January this year and that the number of these persons has increased to a total of 22 000 by October this year is sufficiently eloquent. Whether these are the positive effects of tax reform, I ask you. Social sustainability. This is also one of the components of the 2008 and 2009 good budget, which boasts Minister Bajuk, who boasts of the Government, with which, last but not least, the government Members are proud - social sustainability. Do you know what social sustainability means right now? I have before me a letter I received today from a single mother who, with tears in her eyes, tells me how much social reform has affected her. In order to have a socially sustainable budget for the next two years, we have amended legislation, the Social Protection Act. That is why we have determined that €63 is the amount that enables the child or should allow the child to live alone for a month of €63, so that Minister Bajuk can say at the meeting of the National Assembly that he can be proud of the Slovenian public that we have a socially sustainable budget. My colleague Drobnic mentioned before me that the budget does not respond to the current picture in our country, does not solve the problem that there is a problem that from month to month there are several elderly people, that there are more disabled persons from year to year who need social security services. No, no, no. In the framework of the parent work bodies, we've tightened up, closed down the tentacles for social security programs. Specifically, when it comes to work centres. Even those who stay at home are family helpers, and those people have been hit by social sustainability in their pockets. When the government boasts that the budget is based on a positive drawdown of European funds, when government Members boast or, rather, accuse some opposition Members who have or have warned that it would not be good to raise VAT rates in 2008 when they are now boasting that Minister Bajuk did not do so when he tells us, because we have warned of this, I would like to draw your attention to an important fact. And this important fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also covered the budget hole by selling state property, including by selling state-owned disabled companies, by selling state social housing. How are we going to solve the social problem if we put everything on the capital market today? How will survivors who do not receive even EUR 400 per month of income due to the social sustainability of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia be, say. Please! Thanks to the government! What for? Inflation is a fact. Our country's indebtedness is an important fact. Last week, I heard in this Parliament's debate that 15,000 euros per capita is our country's common debt. Indeed, the government can boast of this. If I touch a project called the Trbovlje Hospital. We've heard that before today. And I'll tell you why I'm touching the Trbovlje Hospital right now. Because I want to draw attention to the priorities of this government. Long time ago, she said no to public health, too. In the 2004 budget, €7 million was provided for 2005. EUR 7 million of budget resources. This money has miraculously disappeared from the budget. I asked the Minister of Health a while ago, and I hope that she has at least looked at the budget that this Government has confirmed, where 7 million euros of budget went to the agreed project under the public-private partnership, when some say how important the public-private partnership is. No, today, in 2008, these resources are not in the budget; they are not in the budget in 2009. But you know what the greatest cynicism of this government is? To close her mouth not only to the municipality of Trbovlje, Zagorje, Hrastnik, who benefit, I will say, the services of the hospital Trbovlje, but to the entire region. This is supposed to be a regional project after a new one when we divide into regions, regions in our country. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has provided 15,000 euros for the new hospital. respected colleagues, only and only EUR 15,000. In doing so, the Government is proud of the fact that it will chair the European Union to rent 80 luxury cars and therefore pay more than €3 million. These are the priorities of this government so that we can, I don't know, hit each other on the back so that we can walk alongside the most developed European companies. You know, sad is the policy that seeks priorities outside the borders of our country, but forgets about Slovenian citizens and citizens. 12% of those who live below the poverty line. 40% of those who depend on minimum social transfers, because if they did not, those 40% would also fall below the poverty line. There are 120,000 pensioners, 120,000 who do not reach a pension of 400 euros a month. And then there are at least 200,000 workers who have minimum or minimum wages. All this for the social sustainability of the future two budgets. When some talked about drawing on European funds. This is also the basis for the budget. But in drawing on European funds, our country is so inefficient that it has even received a reminder from the European Union. In the social field, the efficiency of our country is only and only 5%, something more in the area of cohesion of local self-government. The fact is that our country is also a very obvious net payer in the European budget because of the ineffective government policy on European funds. This means that we pay at least €27.4 million more in the European Union budget than we get from it. Can the government really boast about a favourable policy in this area? Allow me just one more thing when I mentioned the priorities, the priorities of the government of Janez Janša. Finally, these priorities are very evident from the budgets currently on the table. I said that the Government, with a very obvious degree of cynicism, has closed its mouth to those who have been fighting for more than seven years for the Trbovlje hospital to receive the funds realised in the budget. This government is committed to reconstruction at the same time, and I will mention only one of the churches, €62,423. You know, it's obvious cynicism or the priority of this government. Trbovlje is dedicated only and only EUR 15 000. One more thing I'd like to point out. Although the government has said several times, the Prime Minister of the Government has also said at Monday's session in a double speech or, rather, brainwashing, that the government wants constructive cooperation from the opposition. The government is fair, the government is fair, the government shares people. But the report of the mother's working body clearly shows how constructively the government wants to co-operate with the opposition. How is the government prepared for positive proposals, for the participation of the opposition? It is clear from the report that only the amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, Nova Slovenija, Slovenian People's Party and Democratic Party of Slovenians were supported by all the amendments tabled. So government clients. The opposition amendments were transported. And I would like to warn you, when I said that all the opposition amendments were being transported, that there was another "shampariya" that happened on your mother's working body. I'm sure, but I'm sorry that the magnetogram is not here yet, and I hope that the debate on the amendments of the magnetogram will also come to our bench. The "Schampari" went in this direction that, in the presence of opposition members, including coalition members, the chairman of the committee voted in favour of the amendment of Parliamentary colleague Saš Pečet. But it is stated in the budget that this amendment is simply not supported by the committee. Here you can see a fair game, a fair game of government MPs. Another fair game of government members was seen today at a meeting when some warned that they would support the budget with a heavy heart. In particular, it flies to fellow Members of Parliament at the Democratic Party of Pensioners. In recent times, we have been very intensive, almost every session listening to how they support with a heavy heart the government's proposals for laws or budgets. Isn't this a weird game? Don't you find it strange? In the fact that funds are being cut for social services in important areas, however, financial resources are substantially increasing in the area of the area, the area of the area under the chairmanship or minister of the Prime Minister of the Government of DeSUS. In the 2008 budget, funds for purchase are substantially increasing, I do not know, I will say Minister Erjavac's toys. Yeah, military toys. In the future two budgets, financial resources are literally deleted for social services. You know, it's a double game, double morality. And we will not fall for these doubles in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Therefore, budgets or, in particular, because we are talking about the 2008 budget, we will not support it. Thus, we will not support the entire budget. We have drawn attention to important facts, and since time is no longer much, I believe that in the forthcoming debate, we will also draw attention to the irregularities, the weaknesses of government action.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u71	Thank you very much. As far as the magnetogram is concerned, you're right. You don't have a magnetogram yet. At this point, it's made by half. All together and representatives of the Government must bear in mind that the meeting of the parent working body was held on Saturday, and therefore, as regards the magnetic record, about half of it has been written down. Given that we are currently at the general part of the 2008 draft amending budget, I will hold this debate until the end, if Members want it, of course. In the event that the magnetically recorded amendments are not yet available to Members and Members before the debate on the amendments to the individual sub-programme, I will order a recess until the magnetic record is drawn up. So much for the notice. And we continue on the basis of the applications. Member Anton Anderlich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u72	Respectable. We've been following the lessons we've learned in recent weeks. Amazing rhetoric repeating itself from one speaker to another, teaching the opposition how it is neglected, how it knows nothing, how it knows nothing, how it exaggerates. But this militant language, which was introduced into Slovenian political space, was introduced by the government. For example, I get to the table, there has not been until now, not in last year or before last year, that it would happen that all the amendments of the opposition have been written "The Chair of the Government. The government rejects the amendment. Only the word "disgusting" is missing. This is the relationship you make to all the others who disagree, who don't idolize the same god as you. And of course, if you can write in some other amendments to the coalition, it supports, it agrees that in these amendments it "returns". It's all rhetoric. What kind of hypocrisy is that? Mr. Jože Hrovat says, "We gave 30,000 euros to the nationalities." Coalition MPs are broad-minded. Yes, where were you when you were drawing up the budget and you didn't put $50,000 in the budget if you knew you needed it. Now it is God's gift to national communities, Italian and Hungarian. Please! Just a few more general remarks, but then I only have two sets of questions that I think I should stick to, because I think all other things really don't have to be stressed here, to be repeated, but they would be necessary. And you remembered in this coalition that the easiest thing to do is go to the market, get in debt, spend money, and next generation will pay for these loans. Believe me, you can accuse me of having nostalgia, but this patent didn't go down in the old Yugoslavia and those loans "sinked" that country. A system of highway construction, a gas tolar, where do you have gas tolar resources, or where are the funds collected on purpose under the Highway Construction Act? You don't show them anywhere. They're gone. "Smooching Poppapal." They're lost in an integrated budget, but let's just leave it there, because they're gonna show up here, and they're gonna explain what it's like to take a poof. I know what it's like to take him home, I have to bring him back, there's no other way. This is how it is done in these financial markets. But something I'm really worried about. The Minister of Defence, the President of DeSUS, is demonstrating in the streets of Ljubljana how he advocates for those layers of residents who have been forced to go to the streets, workers, students, pensioners, but look at the fraction when you look at his budget, the dead cold coalition takes him from only one title, the scientific technological development in the field of defence, security, which he already had in one way or another index 96, which is not 100% achieved, let alone inflation and so on, but still here in these amendments of the coalition, signed by Žnidaršič, leader of the parliamentary group, signed by Tanko and so on, and they take it away and reduce it further. Only one of his data grew with the index 120. And that's, you won't believe the acquisitions. And we're probably going to close down some unnecessary ship in a clearing debt that you don't even show. Slovenia doesn't need this ship and NATO doesn't expect it from us. That's why I'm making a very responsible statement from this town. But there's an index of 120. And that in the circumstances when you don't even come to Parliament and admit that in 2008 and 2009, you don't plan any more targets against 8,500 soldiers, but the real ministry representative, ambitions are not like that anymore, but in the grave 7100 in 2008, 7200 around 2009. But now look at this paradox. We're getting everything as someone in this room would say, like we'll ever have 8,500 soldiers. We won't have them on your terms. So the difference is 40%. You increase the funds to buy, you reduce the number of soldiers. What for? Or just because the brokers of these acquisitions are close to the ruling government party, by name and surname. Or is it just for that? Because, without the redefined programmes for the completion of the Slovenian Army on 8,500 soldiers, you need to obtain equipment for 8,500 soldiers. If you are reducing, here is evidence, in the 2008 budget you planned the same amount of funds, in the 2009 budget, the ratio between these two years is the index 100, and something along with, it goes to decimals. So what are we talking about? You do not tell this how you will ensure better status for Slovenian soldiers. We passed the law here in July. You continue to have soldiers leaving, there is no practical effect, we have not seen a regulation in Parliament six months after you promised it, in the debate on the law to be adopted in the coming days. She's not here. Where are the effects? How will we achieve these goals? Therefore, I would like to ask you simply why you have reduced what Slovenia and the European Union have accepted, after all the recommendations, that we will also spend more money from this area on scientific and technological development in the defence field, why do you not apply this and that means in the 2008 already adopted budget with the 2008 budget changes simply reduce it? Wrong world. We bet on development, on science, on technology, where you take money - from here. And how can the minister, the president of the pensioner's party, here his representatives say that they are not satisfied with social transfers etc., one thing was not in favour of social security at the expense of cancelling some purchases, harmonising some purchases. I am in favour of respecting the programmes, but if it takes thought to reduce the number of soldiers you say, then we must urgently reflect in this National Assembly in order to reduce the volume of procurement. Now I can see why 25 Patrios bought unequipped, because they don't know why they'll be used, because there won't be any living force in these years, if I can say so and that's why, explain these numbers. On the one hand, the Minister participates in demonstrations for social justice, on the other hand increases the indexes for procurement and far from including these funds, which have been reduced in the defence field, in the area of health care for older people, social transfers and so on, and that the Minister will at least take care of the substance of what he is talking about in some way, but not in some way. You don't think I'm against fixing the curves, and so on, but look where you're going with this. Completely inconsistent. If you had this purpose, you would simply include this in the budget, not come here with the amendments and share like Miklavž, now will come at any time, and this will probably be the right time to go around and tell you where you've donated something. I know that old saying, "Fear the Danes," that's one of the worst things. Well, the other thing I would like to talk about is the city of Ljubljana and those municipalities that received the constitutional dispute. So many sweet words, so much justice, you have promised so much good here and so that no one can possibly have any concern that you have not done everything, but that you did not foresee in these two budgets the compensations of those funds which the Government will have to provide, which were deliberately, out of greed, as already taken by the Ljubljanaers and some other municipalities. So in Ljubljana there will be about 1,500 apartments less, because out of these 130 million euros, as far as it costs Ljubljana, they will simply not be financed from anywhere and this is what they call social housing for the people they need most. But why don't you explain in these two budgets why you don't want to make up for it, even though you've lost the constitutional conflict? Tell me the item, the compensation for the funds that have been lost, or for the funds taken from Ljubljana and some other municipalities, and I will say, "Thank you for explaining to me, maybe I didn't find it." But, there was an injustice, the Constitutional Court said, "correct it, move on," of course, and believe that this correction will happen sooner or later, only by costing the country substantially more because it will probably have to pay some more interest, but that's another matter. I'm expecting an explanation of exactly where the items show that I can normally talk to people who ask me why these differences are. That there will be no misunderstanding, I have no objection to the fact that all the congregations have more, and I have also voted and supported many times when it comes to congregations and regional development. But let's be fair to everyone. I do not have to respond to European funds and so on, everyone can apply, all municipalities can apply, this is not the same, it is one thing that belongs to their own resources and what these municipalities or citizens create, and another is when all, every congregation or community together, can apply by means of programmes, projects. That answer won't satisfy me, but where's the refund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u73	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite the Member of the Christian Johns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear representatives of the Government, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have now received a little lesson, what is not applicable in this country, in this budget, what is not applicable in the defence and city of Ljubljana, which says it has a record budget for 2008. I find these things difficult to understand together, but with a light heart I will support this budget or the change in the 2008 budget, not as difficult as some colleagues and colleagues. And so many comments that I have heard today from this debate on this budget, which, I think, of course, all 90 Members, no budget is ever and will never satisfy me, not even if I am honest. It is simply not possible, because the budget is what it is, the resources are as much as it comes into the budget, so much as is available, and for every satisfaction from these 115 amendments, if I have read correctly, 115 amendments, the many wishes of the groups and Members of Parliament, how additional resources would be obtained in this budget for their needs, are, of course, a legitimate right, but unfortunately, limited possibilities for resources of the state budget and, of course, what has already been adopted or because changes will be adopted in this, I hope that in this budget. Of course, we are doing relatively well in Slovenia. We do not recognize this for ourselves, that we are doing well and that we have certain successes, that we want to do even better and more, even of course the right and right decision of the Government as such. It is true that, at this time, I think that really Slovenia is one real investment site, where there is a lot of investment in various areas of Slovenia, in the various areas of investment projects that are being implemented at this time and that is encouraging, that is good, that is positive, that is developmental, that is what Slovenia deserves and wants. And it probably bothers some a little bit. The deficit is shrinking, that's probably good, I think it's public spending, which we talked a lot about in this National Assembly, is also shrinking, these are positive steps that we have to admit, you want or you don't want. The responsibility that I have heard a number of new information about today, in my opinion, is not such that it is critical. Here I have information about today's Journal, such as the debt in Switzerland, Belgium, Norway, Sweden and so on, essentially, it is much more important than in Slovenia, and such an alarm is triggered around this indebtedness to a citizen in Slovenia, so that it is definitely impossible for such investment cycles, especially if it is impossible to work uneconomically and irrationally, to build without and indebt with the highway cross and other state and other investment is virtually impossible in Slovenia. And every good economist today who invests something certainly owes himself. It's a normal phenomenon not to talk about natural persons. So much empty straw for nothing, I don't think it's justified. As far as employment is concerned, let us be proud that as low unemployment as in Slovenia today has never been. And it is definitely that there has never been so many shortages of such and different personnel in Slovenia. And today, unfortunately, we need to import labour from other republics, former SFRY and also from the European Community. This is the pointer that says something in this space. Yet unemployment is still high. Obviously, some do not find the will to work that is available to employers. Economic growth, we've heard a lot about it and so on. I think that Slovenia is also a sufficiently social country, which offers everyone who needs help some minimum conditions for survival, for life. However, I also think, as the minister said, that the bag is shrinking slightly, as the needs in the Slovenian space are clearly diminishing slightly. And these changes that we have foreseen have certain priorities, certain emphasis that I think are important. That they receive and that they will receive more development money for development and investment from Slovenian municipalities is true. It does not matter where they come from, it is important that these local communities, which have been neglected for quite some time, receive a development cycle, an incentive, and this government and this parliament have given them some opportunities. It is true, however, that there are also many challenges ahead of them to be able to draw on European funds as successfully as possible by 2013. This depends not only on the Slovenian Government, on the Minister or on the Prime Minister, but mainly on the Slovenian mayors and municipal councils, how they will successfully prepare a number of projects that are difficult and which will be in line with the calls available for this money. Not everything depends on the government. The government has set up an ambitious plan. Other municipalities and other potential ones will be able to look for good programs and draw on funds. I hope that they will be as successful in this as possible, that we will bring as much money as possible to Slovenia or to the Slovenian municipalities that are waiting for this money and will use it in my opinion for their future development projects. More resources to protect the environment, I think this is the right thing to do and we are trying at this time to ensure that our environment is protected as much as possible for today's and for future generations. I think it is right that this emphasis is significantly greater and also more funding for roads. We talk about this a lot, both in Parliament, on committees, one way or another. I believe that it is possible around Ljubljana, these needs are no longer, maybe not anymore, but Slovenia is not only Ljubljana and its surroundings, but much more. There will still have to fight immeasurably Believe me, the regional network is weak, it is difficult, it becomes dangerous and it is right that this segment is being dedicated, both to Prekmurje, if you want, to the White Landscape or elsewhere, additional resources. I don't think that's wrong. Therefore, we are helping to make sure that we are doing our best to keep Slovenia as balanced as possible. And even those of our congregations that may have been neglected years ago are now given an additional impetus through this, additional sources of regional renewal, difficulties if you want and similar things. [[...]] And it is right that the Government is following this, and the Parliament is following it, and that is nothing wrong. I think we should be aware that they need this. More money for the economy, for development, for technology, for research. This is a good thing that I think has support in the budget, in the state, which is strong and I think this is also the right thing to do. Of course, in all these positive effects that we see both in these budget changes and so far, I will say this successful common Slovenian path, in a good story, which we certainly also have some drawback, which we can also recognise. I have no problem saying about inflation that we are not all most satisfied with this inflation and that it has different causes, both internal and external. I hope that some colleagues and colleagues believe that everything is not in the government, but the government will certainly do everything in my power to calm or reduce this inflation in the coming period. I'm sure of it. For those levers the government has as such, I'm sure. Of course, the impact on the 100-dollar oil barrel will be difficult for the Slovenian Government to influence. Probably not. We also agree that the prices of raw materials, aluminium, steel and similar things, are growing strongly and grain, etc., cannot be much influenced by the Slovenian government. That's what I think you're admitting, whether you want it or not, that's the way it is. But what depends on internal affairs, I am sure that the government will successfully implement them in the future, and that this criticism will not be critical, because I do not know what would then be critical if inflation were even within the expected limits, then I do not know what would be the subject of today's debate of the opposition in this House. Good thing that's it, but... Finally, I also agree with the fact that the relativity, the modesty of working wages in the Slovenian space is low. Is that why only the Slovenian government is affected? I don't think so. Therefore, the question of employers and industries such as them is certainly too low, because they are doing work, but everything, even though the sun is not shining today, is the Slovenian Government responsible? I don't think so. And that is what I think is a little too much to expect to be paid, I don't know, by the Slovenian Government in Lisca Sevnica. I don't think he's drinking water, that's not true, and that's probably what you gentlemen are aware of, too, that it doesn't work together. However, that some of the levers of a friendly environment for the economy, tax reform, reduction of profit tax etc., i.e., I think that this has been done a lot, and that this friendly environment of government offers to the Slovenian economy, and has also made good use of it in these large, successful results that the Slovenian economy has, in particular, the fruit of good governance and good employees and also the appropriate instruments that the Government has made for the pleasantness of the Slovenian economy in these three years, because, in my opinion, there, as I have already said many times, the story begins and ends. However, it is true that this voice of today's debate, and I hope that the adoption of both the amendment and the budget, the 2008 amendments, will have a positive impact in this mandate by the end of this Government and this Parliament, and that 2009 will certainly be done by the new Slovenian Government, whatever it may be, by its own taste. But perhaps more money will go for other purposes than it is going today, but I do not think that they are going in favour of Slovenian municipalities if you want, the Slovenian economy and, not least, the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, to whom this Government, together with the National Assembly, has given them positive steps forward, and this 2008 budget is also positive, believe me, for Slovenia, not only for central Ljubljana and Slovenia, some cannot forget the city of Ljubljana and all the injustices that are happening to it, but this is already a matter for someone other than Parliament to resolve accordingly, the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which the Government will have to make sure that Parliament adapts to the requirements imposed by the Constitutional Court. In doing so, I think it will be another year of time for this to be prepared and settled in peace so that the matter is coordinated in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u75	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Ambassador Jozet Tank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Finally, we have a government that we can say holds its budgetary forecasts. So far, until this mandate, we have had governments for which documents can reveal that the budget forecasts have not been kept. Not only have we had problems with the length of budget years on the revenue and expenditure side, it is said that the financial year has been extended and the expenditure has been reduced, but we have also had governments that have had very major problems with the forecasts, such as the assessment of budgetary deficits. Practically between 2002 and 2004, when the Prime Minister was then Drnovšek and later Mag. Robbery, everyone in their budget documents has predicted a significantly lower budget deficit, virtually always below 1%, but this has never been achieved in realisation. For 2002 the budget deficit was estimated at 0.98%, reaching 2.5%. This government is the first to stop playing with public finances and the image of public finances and what it plans to do, even then realizes, even more, this government is the first to realise the already carefully planned revenue and expenditure of the budget and the public financial deficit even better than it has predicted in its budget. We've never had cases like this before. Despite the fact that the Presidents of the previous governments were economists, despite being financial ministers, the top experts who are always teaching us what is not good in our budgets are always teaching us what is not good in our budgets. So much for this part. If I move a little further, in the budgetary memorandum, former Prime Minister Drnovšek said that the search for the right balance between the social state and the most efficient economy is continuing. The result of this forecast was an immediate increase in the tax burden or contribution rates for employers and for the same percentage for pensioners as well. In short, the first measure of the former government was to make the situation of pensioners worse. We took one 12 from them at the end of the year. In short, one pension. The first step, or one of the first measures of this Government, was to correct the pension reform of the previous government, to which we then also committed the growth of pensions. And pensions now grow proportionally with salaries. The first measure or one of the first measures taken by this Government. Therefore, when we look at all these approaches, these concepts of the previous administration and the current administration, we are not in favour of the statements and comments of those who today comment on the behaviour of this Government in agreement with what you were doing when you had that government. And the ministers here present, even here absent some, did exactly the opposite of what you said in your predictions. In the 2001 budget memorandum, the then President of the Government, Dr Janez Drnovšek, stated that radical cuts are only possible for reducing public spending when there are economic crises. It is only then that there is a common consensus that such measures are meaningful, and even then many do not go without major shocks, both social and political. This government is not operating in the area of any crises. Economic growth is far the largest, far greater than any government before it, but we have reduced public spending by 3% in three years with sound policies and reasonable moves. Not because of the crises, not because of the violence, I do not know any partners in any radical move, but through the management of appropriate policies in these areas. And the fact is that public spending is currently the lowest since 2000, by almost 5% of GDP, from 48.2 this year will fall to 43.6%. No crises, no violence, no accidents, no wars, no everything. This can be achieved if you take public finances seriously if you do not go to some spectacles and some demagogies, and even after that this government is significantly different from its previous or past governments. On one of the TV shows, I think that was on November 16th, when opposition presidents of the parties discussed the situation in the country, Mr Pahor said that this budget was very poorly set. He's talking about the budget rebalancing, Mr Squeakl, Mr Pahor, that we understand each other, about the balance, I have a magnetogram, and you didn't warn him. And he said very precisely that there is an increase in the budget deficit and that public spending is too high. According to the information you have on the table, and you should also know that the president of your party, because he is a very responsible person, in this change in the budget that is ahead of us, the budget deficit is reduced by 76 million euros from 306 million to 230 million. Your president speaks on television about the increase in the budget deficit, which is stated ecclatanally, inconsistent with the budget document ahead of us, has seen all the Slovenian political and professional public and nothing. None of the professions, none of the politicians reacted. By saying something that he does not adhere to in an eccentrically proven manner. And there's plenty of pearls like that. When we talk about the quality of the budget of one and the other before us, I cannot go beyond the press conference that was announced by the partner party of the Social Democrats, where the president of this party, Mr Pahor or Comrade Pahor and the new comrade, Mr Swickl, proposed to the Government that these two budgets should be withdrawn because they are indeveloped because they do not follow the macroeconomic changes. How can this actually be declared? At the same time, these indevelopment budgets, for which you propose withdrawal, are submitted to dozens of amendments, including by your parliamentary group. It's completely out of line with what you're saying to the public. I think it would be and that it is time for these compasses to somehow adjust to speak the same language, the same language and that this language should then be worded that way, so that the acts are the same as words. This government is also the first in recent Slovenian history to improve the tax environment for both private and individual taxpayers, as well as for all types of economic operators. So far, there has not been a government that has done these things simultaneously for both groups. If she gave some ratings to one of the common taxpayers, she compensated the other and vice versa. For the first time, there have been significant reliefs, significant improvements, in both categories. And this is where virtually everyone profited. And there's a lot of talk about the weakest groups. The increase in the general tax relief was, if this is true for one working salary from €2,500 to €2880. This Government is the first to take a concrete measure in tax relief for the lowest class and also the only one to raise the rate at the lowest grade. At the same time, all other taxes that are still linked to these matters are being abolished. It is very important that what has been said on several occasions has not been compensated by the VAT hike, what has been the forecast and threat of many governments' macro- and micro-economics. The rest is for the same VAT and this increased VAT is not in anything because it has not been realised, and it has also hit these lowest groups. However, it seems very important to me that these budgets are somehow developmentally oriented after all. Because there is a significant increase in investment by 60%, especially on railways, state roads, especially in corridors, health and also investment transfers for various legal and natural persons, which ultimately means certain incentives for development. There is also a great deal of talk about poverty. Some Members talk about this very much. However, on the basis of the data we have, it can be found that this country within the EU is 25 which has the second lowest poverty threshold. The Netherlands alone is one of the countries with fewer people below the poverty line than the Republic of Slovenia. All other countries, including much more developed countries, have a much higher poverty threshold. And these things are not to be ignored and it would be good if the situation in this country were taken into account in these discussions. One thing is very good and especially employment. The number of unemployed has decreased by 23,000 in three years, with an estimated increase in the number of work permits and if these work permits were compensated for by domestic employment, employment would be somewhere between 2% and 3%, which is a remarkable result. Such a result has not yet been achieved during this comparable period. And what is particularly important is that employment is greatly improved, especially those of the border categories, those that are most sensitive. They're disabled, and that's youth. You got all this information a few days ago on the table. Again, I must say that I am extremely pleased that this Government, which has drawn up this budget, is the first to prepare such budgets, that budgets stand, both after the length of the budget years, and according to macroeconomic data, after having shown a public financial deficit. Even more, the results are even better. That is why I will also support both the 2008 and 2009 budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Your debate and colleague Tanko gave birth to a replica, among other things. Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. It is appropriate to respond to the comments of the Head of the SDS Group. First, with regard to the so-called reduction in the share of public spending in GDP. Add 4 times the $40 billion out of Darsa's state budget, which totals about 160 billion, which ultimately gives you 600 million euros, which is about 2% of GDP. This is precisely the two percent of GDP as much as the Republic of Slovenia guarantees are higher and therefore it will be necessary to increase tolls by about 40% from 2009 onwards. Add at least €200 million to the increase in the debt of the management company, the former development fund, to purchase real estate for the needs of ministries and Mr Tanko you are already at this, so-called three per cent reduction in public consumption. If this were true, as you said, that public spending is declining, that we have restrictive public spending, then Mr Tanko would not have inflation, but would have deflation. The budget deficit is falling and it's not growing. The budget deficit falls when it is looked at in substance. The European Commission's announcement, and of course it is right for European Members to watch. If, in 2006 and 2007, we believed that the cyclical and structural deficit would indeed fall in 2008, after the meeting of former Minister Bozic with the Vice-President of the European Commission on Infrastructure, Mr Barrot and the necessary inclusion of the Slovenian Railways debt, this story has simply changed and therefore the cycle and structure of the harmonised budget deficit in 2008 is 1.4 and not 0.8% as much as it was in 2005. And that, of course, is the policy we are drawing attention to. And then there's the big story, someone's been talking about it, problem or rent yes or no. There is no problem with rent and rent, only public finances must be included in accordance with the constitutional principle that all revenue and expenditure must be in public finances and the DSU is not in public finances. And the attitude toward the congregations, or the problem of income. Say you've closed the budgets after you've taken away the congregations.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u79	Comrade Squeakle, your time, you have three minutes available for the replica [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u80	I finish, share of income, then of course this simply cannot be done. [[...]] All Slovene municipalities [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u81	Comrade Squeakle, please finish. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u82	Not only Ljubljana, they lost money. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The last speaker in this round is Mr Villa Trophynik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Since there's little time available, I'll try very briefly. Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance is not, I accept his idea that we should be discussing today if we are not already deciding on common consumption, but it is not our fault if it is not in the discussion and the material of the "retirement" cash register, very short and from the health treasury. Just saying that total consumption has decreased in structure or over measurement, again a share of GDP, is, of course, questionable. As is questionable, I have already said before, to speak for the state budget itself. Not long ago, it was said that it has declined - yes, in this share, but otherwise, if we look at it, it will increase by €2 billion,816 million, or 23%, from 2006 to 2009. We no longer live in inflation in the former South, so that these numbers could be normal, these numbers are abnormal. Now that there's no time, I was thinking today of a plastic display of the problem of inflation. I agree, part of inflation is due to the rise in food or food prices, the other is related to oil, but you know what our responsibility looks like, the family we don't want, we don't know or any way to admit it. Actually, it's true, I don't want to do commercials for some manufacturing and trading company, so I gave up showing in nature, but I'm going to describe it. If you're going to buy chocolate at Petrol's gas station and buy the same chocolate at Fat Berta's, I'm sorry, we know that Styrians know where it is in Shentil, which still exists, is there for the same chocolate price of 1.5 euros, and at Petrol I think 3 euros and a little over 40 cents. This is how the problem of inflation looks plastic. And of course, there was some discussion, a lesson based on the political economy. I didn't know to this day that the government was in charge of the economy. I thought it created conditions for the economy. I believe he is in charge of whether he is responsible for that part of the economy that is owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Petrol knows which property it is, as well as to make a comment, and it will be very interesting to project this on the issue of electricity stimulation. Of course, I'm not that naive, but it's interesting to monitor. The majority of distribution companies are owned by the State or by the majority of the country most responsible for this area justifys irritation, then the administrations in these distribution companies and the supervisory councils are once again moaning and moaning and trying to justify which representatives they are. The government put them up, not the opposition, not private companies. Of course, I expect it to be the government's responsibility. I would expect some to fly now, or that the Government would pay for possible incentives such as advice that a brewery does not pay for the ownership of a trading company difference or administration. By the same logic, I now expect the government to pay if the electricity rises. But I think it's a game that won't come, but that the government will appear as a great savior. At first, she predicted she'd get a promotion, and then she'll be gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I am opening a new round in conjunction with the debate on the general part of the 2008 draft amending budget. I ask all Members who wish to discuss signing up. Thank you very much. We have the opportunity or I apologize, five Members have applied for the debate and one colleague has missed the application. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I myself would like to say something about the content of health and social protection. First of all, I would like to point out that, on the Health Committee, I have already assessed the budgets that follow this programme user, while also pointing out that the proportion of funds allocated to compulsory health insurance handled by a health insurance company falls from year to year. This seems extremely important to me to repeat because of the fact that it has already been possible to hear from the Secretary of State that the Government could propose a change in the contribution rates and this in the direction of the increase. This means further burdening taxpayers with an increased contribution rate to ensure the same, i.e. now the current level of health care provision. And we can also see this very nicely through indices that talk about compulsory health insurance revenues, which will fall below 6% of the social gross product for the first time in 2009. And if we can compare 2002 when this share was 6,24 and if we compare 2009, when this share will be 5,98, then we can be concerned that the Secretary of State forecasts after the increase in the contribution rate for compulsory health insurance rights are justified. Of course, why should this be warned? It should be noted that the budget should then also be understood to support the socially disadvantaged and to ensure an adequate level of resources in the context of social transfers. And if we look at these figures, this government has been known to be through budgetary resources, both in the budget and in the relevant legislation, to make sure that there was a reduction in social transfers. I would also like to reiterate very much the fact that when the President of the Government was warned in the presentation of budgets that budgets do not include the possibility of adopting provincial legislation, he has taught us very much that financial burdens cannot be accepted in the rule of law if there is no adequate legal basis for this. When I discussed the specific item in the budget, which is introduced in a new way, this is about ensuring that payments of supplementary health insurance premiums under the main programme of regulating and overseeing the health system are released, a new item of EUR 4 million for 2008 has been issued for the purpose of exempting 64,000 insured persons from supplementary health insurance in Slovenia. Of course, given the value of this item for 2009, which is twice as high, it can be concluded that this Government has proposed only half of the resources required for 2008; of course, it is interesting why the Government is proposing to help the socially disadvantaged, i.e. those who are struggling to pay health insurance, the exemption of this payment only for half of the year in 2008. And here is a very important message of what this government has to do with the socially weak. If this government wanted to help them, it would have helped them with the exemption in 2005. And the symbolism of elections in 2008 gives a clear answer that the purpose of this government is to meet only for the election of aid to the socially weak and the exemption of these payments. I expect you to listen and actually show that you care about these people, but not just about pre-election maneuvers, how do you say, "Oh, now we know how to help 64,000, 65,000 people who are socially weak." In doing so, I would add only one more related to the provision of quality healthcare. For years, we have faced a well-known thesis that there is a lack of funding for the education of doctors. To this end, we have set up another medical university. There is a great deal of dilemma about whether we will be able to build the capacities of a medical university so that we can provide education to all who are enrolled in a medical university in Maribor. Minister Bajuk said last year, even in the course of the budget debate, "if the necessary resources are to be provided in the following year". The type of documents exists that the use of structural resources by drawing on these funds for the construction of the Faculty of Medicine is at risk if we do not provide in this year's budget adequate funds for the purchase of dwellings and for the preparation of investment building documents so that we can continue the investment in the second year. And, of course, here too, the coalition vote will clearly show how it wants to help Slovenian health care and provide adequate capacity for the development of the Faculty of Medicine so that in the future we can have an adequate number of doctors who are a problem in Slovenian society today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I invite Ambassador Mir Petk to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! The 2008 and 2009 budget is development-oriented and oriented, which is a budget that finally supports regional development and consequently reduces rural development backlogs, and this is a budget that is more earmarked for investment, including for local communities. This government was reportedly the first government in Slovenia to realize that Koroška is not only around Celovac, that there is some Koroška in Slovenia. This year we have €6.5 million for state roads in Koroška. The 2008 budget provides €10 million for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of state roads. In the coming year, an investment in the Slovenian hospital is worth €15 million. By amending the Law on the Financing of the Congregations, all the congregations of Koroz were greatly acquired. In 2006, 12 municipalities of Korea had a budget of 36 million euros, with a budget of 42 million euros this year. This budget 2008 and 2009 places great emphasis on ecology, environmental rehabilitation in the Mežíska Valley as well. With the 2008 budget amendment, we are increasing the funding for the rehabilitation of leaded powder and other heavy metals in the Mežica Valley for a good EUR 374,000, which is a million euros. In the 2006 and 2007 budget, EUR 626,000 was foreseen and also used, which is the former 150 million tolars; we are now increasing this amount to a million euros, of course, if you accept this amendment from your colleagues and colleagues. For 2009, an amendment has been tabled, increasing these funds from zero euro to one million euro. The budget of the Ministry of Environment and Space is set at around €2 million for drinking water in Montenegro, in 2008, 2009. This existing water is contaminated with lead and Korosca, the Blacks are grateful to this Government and to this National Assembly, which will adopt this budget. Today was quite said around Yugoslavia, something was also the south of nostalgia, a comparison of Yugoslavia with Slovenia. Perhaps it would be good to remember something about what we were living and what we were experiencing in Yugoslavia. We had a couple, odd. We had gas vouchers, we used to buy foreign currency on a gray market, we had a shortage in stores, and inflation was 100 or 1000%. At our borders in Koroška, when we went to the mushrooms, we quickly fell into the 100 - foot [100 m] belt, JLA wanted that couple to spread a thousand meters or kilometers [1,000 m]. We had centralism, which they said was democratic centralism. We had a dictatorship, said it was a dictatorship of proletariat, it was actually a dictatorship of one party, one party. Military police, remember, shut down civilians, the military court tried civilians. And we had one elite, it was a party elite, and we were all the same. We were the same in poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Member Milan Friday has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u90	At that time, however, some refused to write as they wrote during the first period of self - conquest. So I'm not going to repeat what I said in the presentation of my position in general, about these global issues relating to the budget. First of all, I would like to correct Mr Drobnik, perhaps he was mistakenly mistaken that the amendment had been rejected by the president of the Committee on Budgetary Control. Even now it is called the supervision of public finances, which was the chairman of the Finance Committee and exercised business rights. I would like to talk about an event or a rule that seems to me to be debilitating, or the importance of Members pales and alerts Parliamentary debates. A total of 115 amendments were tabled in 2008 or in the budget during this period when we opened the budget debate. That's familiar. Of these, 71 were opposition and 44 were coalition. The known information, not one opposition amendment, could have been so good, could have been so excused, could have been so soundly justified, could not be approved, could not be accepted. There were 42 coalitions, two of them had a problem because they were not properly filed, procedurally, and therefore they had to not be accepted or identified by the committee. Now you imagine that, this relationship, and this is what the public, I hope that through this medium or this transmission they must know; complete usurpation, that is, budget, budgetary debate, budgetary needs and usurpation, vote, write off the coalition from the start. We are experiencing this in both budgets. At our first meeting, both the committees in which we discussed, by jurisdiction or in the field of interest, we experienced this at the first meeting of the Committee on Finance, when we discussed the amendments by 2009, at the second meeting of the Committee or at the first meeting of the Committee, when we discussed 2008. So all the time, total negativity and total rejection of the legitimate amendments, which are simply rejected by members of the coalition because of the discipline that you obviously enjoy, and although I am sure that many would also be supported. And this practice is continued by the Government in a way that, when it identifies itself to the amendments in the opposition, it rejects the amendments, as said by colleague Anderlich, and rejects them with another explanation. But it happens in coalition amendments that there is no explanation, so it just supports. I'd like to know why the government has decided to support the coalition amendments. This text doesn't look like it, but it's just the dry word I support. So I hope that the Government will be able to explain, for some of these amendments, where the reasons are why it has been defined differently from coalitions to opposition ones. The interesting question is, how did so many coalition amendments come up now, 44? So what happened in the heads and in the thoughts of the coalition MPs, who, until this last moment, had obviously invested nothing because I don't know what kind of philosophy someone had beaten them in the head. I have the answers I've created, of course, in my head. They probably realize that they will no longer rule this country. And 2008 creates an extension for some things to be completed in 2009. So if I want to go to 2009, which I will not invest, I have to make amendments for 2008, I have my own road, I have my own investment project, I have my own credit for having a budget amendment or budgeting, and I'm going to put myself on this project, on this road, on this move, on this rehabilitation, on this cultural society and so on in 2009, and it's going to be my entire contribution as a Member in this local environment. This Member obviously does not know how to think beyond these borders of the local environment, in which I think it must satisfy some of the interests. I just think that this can be satisfied otherwise that this Government is already preparing these needs for investment in certain areas, but at least I would say: it is credible, the government and the budget have credibility, and I can also support it as a coalition Member. Today it shows that this is not the case, and apparently there is some speculation here that of course can be avenged. For each of these amendments, at least in the road area, I'm sure you can find the one he filed. The name of the Members who have invested or the Members who have invested will not do so, those who have done so you know best. Look at the place and look at the location where something's going on, and you know who's the godfather, who's the one who's won that much, of course. And that is how we come to that conclusion, which I now, as a Moroccan Member, have to draw in the end. In fact, who in this National Assembly of Coalition Members even thinks about what this Maribor and its surroundings need. Nobody. You convinced Mr. Kangler that he was going to run for mayor, and this fighter for Maribor has now emerged as a coalition. So, he writes you proposals for amendments, writes calls: support us in this and this investment with this and this project, on this and this road. He's not responding. Since we do this to the opposition MPs, the answer is, of course, clear: your roads, the Maribor roads, the Maribor investment or the lower environment. Here I would ask some of the nearby Moroccan MPs if they had forgotten where they were actually going to work, where they were going to school, which roads they were driving, which bus they were driving to, which theater they were going to, which hospital they were going to. They forgot. As they seem to have forgotten, and I hope that the Mariborians who need to know that in this Parliament are members of the coalition, say Srečko Hvauc, say Mr. Willi Rezman, perhaps the nearest Mr. Marijan Pojbič, who else is not to mention Maribor neglected, Maribor was betrayed if you ask me. We can make amendments, we can fight for hospitals, we can fight for roads, we can fight for theatre, we can therefore fight for everything Maribor and the surrounding area of Maribor unquestionably expects - unfortunately there is no result, because someone has given the command: "71 opposition amendments reject and of course coalition support!" This lay on my soul, and this is what I wanted to tell those who will meet with the Maribor mayor at lunch Friday, at which he invited us because he wanted to agree with us on how we enforce and guarantee and, of course, care for them, even in the National Assembly. What are we going to tell him? I'm asking you to come to lunch with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u91	Thank you very much. To discuss the individual amendments tabled, some are also from the area of the Municipality of Maribor, signed as you have rightly found, we will move on. Before that, we will also do the part in which we are currently in, this is a general part of the 2008 draft amending the budget. I would like to take the floor with you, Member Tinker Bell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, everyone else is present. I would suggest that some of you read the material first. Sure, it's about a meter away, but read first what it says before we go to the debate on the amendments so you don't talk through it. Second thing. I recommend that you, at least in your own parliamentary group, consider whether the roads are important to you now, whether they are so-called asphalts or not. Because some of you say they're not, others say they are. If what's left of the LDS isn't gone, it's gone. I think we are looking at this draft amending the budget for 2008 and 2009 in the situation for which you are - and here you are thanking God for being united, despite the fact that you have been very pessimistic in previous years - united that this is during a period of high economic growth. During a period of economic growth such as this Slovenia has not yet had, and with some appropriate and favourable expectations for the following years. And at the second point, we are united: we are facing a major problem of inflation, which can have a harmful effect on both these favourable indicators and our position at home and abroad. And if we are united at this point that inflation is a serious problem - and inflation is a serious problem in any case - then if we want to see it as a serious problem, it is right to face the causes of inflation in Slovenia during this period. And even if you face the professional evaluations that we have been able to track both in the section of the professional public and today in this Chamber and when these documents are discussed at the meeting of the parent committee on Saturday, we will probably all come to a fundamental conclusion that the causes of inflation are both external and internal. And perhaps we differ only in the emphasis that one gives to these, external and internal causes. You've read that in this week, oil prices are expected to rise over $100, so this magical point is going to be beaten. We have read that not only Slovenia, but the whole European public has been affected by food irritations, but that in October this annual increase in food prices in the European Union was 3.6% and in us 12.3%. And given that the main generator of this increased rate of inflation, recorded at point 5.1, is exactly the rise in energy prices, especially oil and food prices, if these two accelerators were not in the same proportion as we have witnessed, then we could talk about inflation in those normal frameworks, within the framework of the criteria we adopted when we entered the European Union. Why, then, is there much more to food than outside? Because of the government? For other reasons or for what? Perhaps the main reason is that this market, as some of you have already found, is still uncompetitive, that it has a high connector on the other hand, but is not competitive both in the food processing sector and in the trade sector. And that is probably why our regulator should play a special role, says the Competition Protection Office. And you will remember that the director of this office recently resigned, and you will remember that we were all not only in opposition, but also all remained very critical of his work and that he obviously failed to perform the role that a competent regulator could perform on a market such as the Slovenian market, when he could find with little effort that all margins above 50% to 60% are non-marketable, non-European and talk about it as a closed market because it is cartel or I do not know what kind of arrangements. And if this work were to be done a little better, I'm sure the parameters we're talking about today would not be met. And here is the task for the future, and this is indirectly also the task of the Government, because the regulator operates within a ministry and I think it will also be necessary to tell this new regulator what its role is and to demand the relevant results. For the expectation that these merchants, probably one of whom dictates the game, will not be appointed to avoid endangering the SD family by themselves agreeing to lower the margins themselves, I don't think we'll expect that, and unless we have an impact on this salary, we will not experience a gradual elimination of the structural causes of inflation. Some of you have talked about the fact that the 2008 budget is inflationary and that this budget is the same as the inflation accelerator or these inflationary expectations. What you've come out of here, all the indicators are against it! I ask you, those great experts you've been talking about today, what is the impact on inflation if, say, the country is in debt for EUR 230 million, and what is the impact on inflation if a Mr. Bine is in debt or Mr. Tone for EUR 230 million and a manager buys out a company? What is the impact of inflation in the case of both debt and debt? You'll probably know how to answer this question, but if you didn't know how to answer this question, I'll tell you that this country deficit is not one of those generators you'd like to show. Especially on the fact that the annual budget deficit is falling from 2.3% of GDP in 2004 to 0.57% this year and is expected to fall to 0.3% in 2009. And here, too, are you thinking about whether it would be appropriate for high economic growth to be cut down and overstated already during this period. Is it better to have some minimal deficit and allow certain investments that are urgently needed for this country - especially in terms of this new financial perspective 2007-2013, when you say in the same breath that we are not successful? But if we are to be more successful, we must also provide our own public resources in this country. And we will probably agree in our assessment that the minimum deficit in our situation is not harming, is, in fact, good, is positive if, of course, all the other elements, fiscal policy and so on, in these frameworks as we say they are. Also in terms of gross external debt, €30.8 billion, 22.8 billion of this debt is private debt. Only 8 billion is the debt of the state sector. There has also been a great deal of talk to reduce the expenditure of the country's sector since 2004. We came from 46.5% of GDP in 2004 to 43.6 in 2007. That tax reform actually meant reducing the burden on everyone, including those with the lowest income, I think no one is in dispute anymore, because even the lowest tax grade was charged from 17% of the tax rate to 16% of the tax rate. That this different way of simplifying the system from 5 to 3 tax classes meant a better approach to tax collection and that this country achieved better results from this title, I think it has been said several times. And here we come back to this point in some contradiction when you say, "We can't accept this budget. It would be accepted if the tax on paid salaries were to be abolished immediately and the minimum VAT rate would be reduced from 8.5 per cent to 5%. That's interesting. And what would happen? Where would that money end? Where would this money end, I ask you! Again with those you say it's wrong to get so rich. I'd end up with the richest because I'd get paid. I think that this gradual way of eliminating the tax on paid wages is the right way, because from grade 3 to 11.8%, as we started with it in this mandate, this rate will be abolished in the coming year or from 1.1.2009. Since 1.1.2009 this tax will no longer be taxed. In connection with what I said at the outset, there was also a lot of talk. The discussion was that this budget was incorrectly structured, that too much emphasis was placed on investment in asphalt, roads and too little emphasis on what was supposed to lead Slovenia to a higher level of development, is said to be knowledge, technology and so on. I don't have that feeling. When I look at the numbers we have in this document, I find that the appropriate dose is the size of the infrastructure, these direct material infrastructures, such as those called science, technology, education and everything else that needs to be ensured that the country can operate in a normal way. However, you will probably agree that the motorways must be completed once. Because otherwise our grandchildren will build them. I think that this project needs to be brought to the end, that it is necessary for those who manage it to ensure the maximum economy, the responsibility for this economy, and that fair tolling must be ensured that the toll is actually paid by all those who are driving on motorways, not by about 63% of road users, the highway, which is now due to the lack of a fair tolling system. This means that the tolling project must be accelerated in the free movement of traffic. And the argument that you are wrong about these asphalts is also that, since 2004, the resources for science and technology have increased by around €100 million since 2008 - from €163 million to €263 million - to increase the resources for tertiary education, to increase the employment policy by 53% compared to 2004, to increase the funds for municipalities - this government has introduced a 3% additional financial contribution to municipalities for investment and I do not understand here what you are saying when you operate this Constitutional Court decision to sue the country if the state does not give it or give it something. The decision is clear. This National Assembly must harmonise Articles 8, 11, 14, 23 and 38 of the Law on the Financing of the Communities in one year. Very clear. And I do not see any legal basis, no reason for anyone, any congregation with any claim from this country, to demand anything. The case must be settled because the Constitutional Court has found that certain funds are original and must be defined as such, and that is all. And provide everyone in this area with approximately equal conditions. I doubt that that environment, which is the most developed and which is already producing exceptional own revenue, will receive some additional resources under this heading, I strongly doubt, sooner or later. So I think that in this regard too things need to be looked at in real terms as they are. The funds for kindergartens are increasing, and a free kindergarten for larger families is being introduced, for teaching funds and so on, so I think we could list some more time. It is true that funds for so-called social transfers are falling, but because unemployment is falling and the number of those eligible for these transfers is decreasing, as 70,000 new jobs have taken place between 2004 and today. In drawing on EU funds in the period 2007-2013, some have expressed dissatisfaction with this drawdown dynamic in 2007 or the concern that this country will be successful in doing so and whether we will be able to draw on them at this level as foreseen in the 2008 budget - I think it is just over €800 million. I'm sure! I'll tell you why. Due to the start of a new financial perspective in 2007, certain administrative frameworks took place there until the summer before these things were confirmed on the European Commission, time has run out and it is normal that these are funds devoted to investments that need a certain pre-preparation. This is how I, colleagues and colleagues would really not be concerned, I think this area is quite realisticly evaluated for 2008. However, what I think is essential to these funds is what some of you warned with fear in June 2005, when you said that Prime Minister Janez Janša had gone to bed rather than negotiate for the Luxembourg proposal and that country was trying to defeat the financial perspective under the Luxembourg Presidency in June 2005 - he did not go to bed, but it would be better if he did not go to bed because he did not negotiate, all those who then negotiated around Poland received 10% in cohesion, in December under the English Presidency, less. And only the right decision at the right time was the one that conditioned the appropriate amount of resources available to Slovenia during the period of the future financial perspective. A management company or so-called DSU and provision of spatial possibilities for the functioning of schools and public administration. I don't know, but maybe this recipe that the previous governments had was better when they rented spaces after very high rents, after such rents that the investment was paid in seven years and after seven years of renting, the state had nothing in hand. I don't know if this system was any better. I think he was significantly worse. I think it is a fact that the state provides spatial opportunities in a way that will then remain the owner better, and I think it is good that it does not directly burden public resources, because it ensures greater effects, both financial and spatial. Some of you today, and even before the hearing, have pointed out that it is a struggle not to accept changes. Let what we have adopted for 2008 remain in force. Even today, I think even the procedural proposal is "stop, don't accept". I really don't get it! Really at best, but I don't understand that. So let's let the deficit be greater than we accept with the rebalancing, so let's make it 0.9 not 0.6 and then 0.3, because it's better for this country than if we fix and improve the public finances situation. I don't really understand anything anymore. So you would agree that instead of EUR 230 million in deficit in 2008, 306, you would say that this is better for Slovenia. I do not understand this, but I doubt that this logic is understood by the citizens who have chosen us to do everything we can to deal economically with public money. And I believe that this 2008 budget is realistic, within the framework that it was possible to put together, that it constitutes an economic treatment of public money, so I think it is worth supporting. I hope you won't obstruct your acceptance of the opposition, I mean, like you did last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chernach. Mr. Pukšič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, ministers, government representatives. Some colleagues who wonder what has happened, however, that it is not possible to accept the opposition amendments and do not have much mileage here in the National Assembly, would like to explain the following. This coalition will adopt several opposition amendments for 2008 and 2009. The previous coalition in previous mandates - I myself have been in two seats in the opposition - has adopted, in the whole six years since the 227 amendments of the opposition, a colleague and a colleague, nothing less than 2 in six years. But not one of the biggest opposition parties called the Slovenian Democratic Party! So, so much for this. As regards certain amendments and the budget related to investments in the Maribor hospital or in the Maribor health care, I can say that we have approximately €1.8 million for investments in the Maribor health care sector. However, it is true that some colleagues who come from the Maribor swimming pool were even candidates for mayor, and God already knew why he did not give them the task because they even voted against the guarantees for the bypass in Maribor. It is also true that my fellow Member, Miro Petek, received a cane on the head, which could have other consequences, but when I listened to his debate, it was perfectly normal. But when they spoke to other colleagues who didn't get a stick on their head, I don't even know what they were talking about, let alone have some content. Some of this, of course, would have been said by my fellow Member, Jože Jerovšek, but as in the opposition, we respect everything and everyone, both at home and at our home, my colleague, as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy at this time, has gone to a pitiful meeting. As you know, Councilman Mirko Spacapan died. When we talk about some other matters in this budget, in particular the part of some of my fellow Members who have listened to or read interviews for the past 14 days or three weeks by one of the fellow mayors who has not read the decision since 4 October 2007 - even those of my colleagues have not, I recommend that they read it - when they talk about where this Bajuk has the money to return to some municipalities who are said to be writing in this decision. If someone shows this number to me or to this government what they have to pay back, of course this government and this coalition with these ministers will do it. Let me tell you something. According to what I had already said about a kilometer earlier, they were finance ministers, Gaspari, Rob, and Dr. All these ministers said every time we talked, for God's sake, when you're going to fix that 1998 community funding law, "Pukšič, because it would, but, it's such a big problem and we have a headache, because we don't hope to correct the mistake we made in 1998." My fellow Member, Willi Trophynik, knows exactly that at the time, in that law, he wanted to get 20% over the proper consumption of the city’s congregation, whether they should be in charge of libraries, museums and so on. They got the money, and they didn't get the warrant and the liabilities. Therefore, my dear colleagues and colleagues, I am even asking the question that it would be necessary on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, but I will read something from it - to set up even an investigative commission in this National Assembly to determine the political responsibility of the aforementioned ministers and presidents of governments, who, therefore, has harmed all the other municipalities in this country. It's political responsibility. And let citizens and citizens of this country know this and really think about the need to make an investigative commission. Look, the ones who haven't read your decisions and said anything in your head or spoken as if they were getting a real stick on their head, it says on page 10. [[...]] [[What can you leave me to say to finish this story on this budget?]] See, on page 10, paragraph 32 of the Constitutional Court decision states - of course, this is not an interview of any frustrated mayor - "for this reason, the legal regulation of the reallocation of own resources" between individual municipalities in the case of created surpluses, own resources above the calculated appropriate consumption; "does not constitute an anti-constitutional interference with the financial autonomy of municipalities." It does not mean an anti-constitutional interference in the financial autonomy of municipalities - for the first time. Secondly, this decision also states that the Constitutional Court clearly states that the State with the Financing Act 1/1 has finally fulfilled its duty to equalise the population, regardless of which municipality they live in. And the third time. The claim by the proponents that the funding system of municipalities must take into account the different contribution of the peoples of individual municipalities is rejected by the Constitutional Court in its entirety! He's totally refusing! Well, and I think that's such an argument that it's really good, that even the opposition Members, when they're already performing, are still reading these arguments and these facts. And if you want to finish. Hence, the richer congregations have no more rights than the less prosperous congregations in terms of the provision of legal and constitutional duties. The funds received by the applicants over the appropriate use are not constitutionally protected and the Constitutional Court does not provide protection; even more; the reallocation of funds during appropriate consumption is consistent with the principle of proportionality. Of course, it will be very easy and very easy to change this law in this direction for this coalition. If I get it over with. This Decision also states that the change in the funding system of municipalities does not in itself constitute an anti-constitutional interference with the constitutional rights guaranteed. And since last night my previous fellow Member, Tone Partljič, also commented on individual performances and the work of our fellow Members, he said to me, "Pukšič has silenced, which is no harm." My dear Tone, I didn't shut up, but if I shut up, it would be a shame. But you, my dear Tone, if you're watching or listening now, it's a good thing you're just louder in the coalition, inside the closed door. And there I am and we're together with my colleagues [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u95	Mr. Puksich. Mr. Partlich isn't here and I wouldn't argue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u96	I wasn't on POP TV last night when Partljič spoke, so I have to tell him publicly, through this institution, through the institute I have at my disposal. So many of these things have been changed and done, thus complementing the law on return to public telecommunications, preparing and adopting a law on the financing of municipalities and, of course, finally making legislation on regionalisation. Colleagues and colleagues. This 2008 and 2009 budget is one of the best, also made by this coalition. And I am sure that, while some fear that they would no longer rule in 2008 after the next elections, of course we will, because now at the end of 2007 we would like to offer you the opportunity to take responsibility if you want it. You said, "God forbid, it is better for us" and then it is better for this country that you remain in the opposition for a while, because as good budgets as we have this, there will be no more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Trofenic has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u98	Thank you. Given my limited time, I'll be telegraphed, my friend Pukšič mentioned me, but he was incorrect. The law, Mr Pukšič, of whom you were the initiator, fell at the Constitutional Court not because of the content, but because of the procedure, because the then leadership of the National Assembly in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government did not send it to the municipalities. Pika! Another time. What is the difference between then and the present law and what are they like? At the time, given the distribution of your own resources of the municipalities, you were not among those 23 who had surpluses, but today you are among those who have surpluses over the necessary resources, based on an article that is unconstitutional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr Anderlich, you have not been appointed, you will be able to apply for the debate immediately. The application for a hearing is ongoing. Mr. Anderlich, please press the button and you'll be able to speak. Mr. Mogue, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u100	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. When I talk about this budget, I can say that nothing has changed in the long parliamentary rejection. It is still valid on the one hand of the Government, on the other hand the National Assembly with a position and opposition, the debates from Parliament to Parliament are the same, the vote is voted on and we all close the voting stations and go home. I think things happen, like when someone from the opposition talks, even if I don't know any arguments, he gets hit with all the guns on his head and doesn't vote. As the case may be, for example, the following thing: there were still privileged members of the nationalities in the budget, who always made reasonable demands for additional money, they were always satisfied with each government, they always received this money. I don't know why they really needed this money, but maybe there's something else about every government letting go. So there's nothing new about this segment, and we can't count on anything new happening here. This present National Assembly has the most oily and agile voting machine I have ever recorded and seen. See, if we only take a segment of the Directorate for Roads where there are most amendments, there are 54 amendments, 31 are coalition and 23 are opposition. Everyone stands out a certain road, for example, on which it would be good to ensure security, but this argument always accepts and is considered a coalition and is voted before the 31 coalition amendments come into the National Assembly and, without further delay, is rejected by 23 opposition amendments, which shows that there is nothing to count here but whether or not you are ours. This story repeats itself indefinitely, but as long as it is only the interests of Members coming from certain backgrounds, it is still good. But when we look at it, when the professional and interested public comes and makes comments on this budget on the working bodies, and then only worships the Government and that almost nothing is left to decide and does not take into account any argument, you know, that is very sad. I can give the example of the Committee on Higher Education and Science, where we have all been very happy to undergo Bologna renovations, where we have assured universities that we will monitor them quickly with money and programmes - bob against the wall. Nothing! It is of greater importance to us in this country now that we asphalt the road to the last village, to accept, say, as I said earlier, the 31 amendments of the Roads Directorate and that God forbid that we accept any amendments on the committee or now here in the assembly that was to invest in science or that would invest in higher education. This is the policy of this government, to concrete, to asphalt roads, for what the public says from the highest forums, such as our scientific research institutes such as universities and so on, and here the bob against the wall, the living God in this National Assembly doesn't hear them, or if he hears them, they vote against them without arguments, and these things, you know, fall under the table. I think this thing's gonna get revenge. Look, there was money in this government and it's full of money, and there were MPs from the roadside position from the Ministry of Defence. What are we gonna do, what are we gonna do? In the area of the segment I mentioned, what are we going to do? Or we'll leave, listen to no one, and we'll say, the only thing the government has done is magnificent. This government is here, not only has this account filled in at the Ministry of Defence, but the Ministry of Defence has additionally equipped it with basic development programmes in the area of defence, because it has "saved" them in a billion years old. However, when we have asked this government to give basic development programmes that run out of time in 2008 and that are not necessary, we already know what we are doing and we are moving forward and leaving the Minister of Bosco now that we are going to the European Union when they are in the open market. Instead of letting these people in this area know what is going to happen for 2009, the Minister should conclude a new regulation on public funding for higher education and other institutions, members of the university since 2009. Do you think the government has done anything in this area until now? Figo-fresco! And let them start the bidding now with January and tell them who they're putting in! Yes, such ignorance, ladies and gentlemen, to public segments such as higher education, such as science and such a benevolent to the Ministry of Defence and to the Directorate for Roads shows our way of thinking in this National Assembly. I'd like to say the following. Everyone tells us - I'll be right there, just two - they all tell us: take over the government. Should we now take over the government with a minority stakeout like the voters gave us? It's like you're offering us when you're a bang, and we're driving, and both our hands would cut off - and now you're driving the bang forward! This is at odds with every natural thought! "What" is that if there's something in your pants, then before you say it again, say, "Let's go to a new election." We'll get right on it, we'll go and we'll work things out. But not to repeat there that we should take over the government as minorities, three small parties, and we will take you after you take the government, and we will beat you from the left with all four. Such respectable colleagues and colleagues, the time is limited, I will stop immediately, I can say in the parable that this budget also applies: Dogs bark, caravan goes on. And I know it's a parable.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u102	Regardless of the fact that you're bullying and not giving the opportunity for a replica when it's obviously about correcting Mr Puksic's misstatement, which referred to my discussion. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] It's your right. [[...]] But, look, when Mr Pukšič quotes one part of the decision and explanation, then another one must. Those articles that are unconstitutional, and you say, "We have one year's time, we'll fix it." But the explanation also says, "The funds that were already planned and were part of the plans of these congregations will have to be replaced." And that's what the Minister of Finance knows, and that's what he's counting on, but it's not in the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Puksich, you wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Well, that's not true what colleague Anderlich said. But if so, let him tell you which side of which paragraph he's in.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Juban. He's not here. Mr. Slavinac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll try to be as short as I can because of the time that's running out. I point out two things that I think are problematic in this budget. The first question is: where did we give the money from the highway, which in previous budgets was an integral part of the budget, and now we are providing the construction of motorways through credits? So far, we have had so much money from this highway budget, we are now providing this share with credits. Where did we put it? Where did we use this? Where did we lose this? For the budget is as great as this leaf of paper. And if we put credit on him, then the good master would invest that difference somewhere to make it easier to pay those loans or whatever. Second thing, a good economic situation, i.e. high economic growth - a good crop in terms of a farm in the field, in the field. Every good master, anyone who works by a healthy farm of intelligence and never gives out, knows that when the harvest is good, it is necessary to save for years to come. At that time, more grain must be prepared for the seed. And for that reason, I generally don't think it's okay, and it doesn't make sense that now that we could make some supplies for the coming years, when we could make ourselves a thicker layer of fat than bears in a bad winter in a good year prepare it so that we don't take advantage of it now, so that we don't take advantage of this opportunity, and we don't prepare to make it easier to survive the severe winter that always comes at any time every year. However, in view of these general concerns, of course, I am fully associated with all those who have criticised the fact that there is no amendment, at least from the region or at least for the whole of Slovenia, such as co-financing food in primary and secondary education, the coalition has not confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u107	Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. Road amendments are a kind of folklore of the Slovenian Parliament. I have been following these folklore since 1997, when we first dealt with such amendments in November, at least at the time I was with them. My friend Franz Puksic had earlier wondered how he could not accept any amendments from the opposition in his mandate when the current coalition was in opposition, even though over 200 had been tabled. I recall that many times before this was done in such a way that the so-called big or mega amendment, which was then adopted by the home committee responsible for this area, was adopted and could be seen in this great amendment by both coalition and opposition Members. This amendment has not been so directly identified, as this Government is now doing. Only this Member of the Government has credit for this matter and so on. Well, the truth is, I must kindly say that two opposition road amendments, one of Syovic's colleagues, were adopted by the coalition at the October meeting of the parent committee, and one such amendment was my amendment. I could now give thanks to the well - being of the coalition, but it is a project that was truly worthy of support. It is about building on the most sensitive parts of the state road Keltika on the fourth development axis from Idria to Godovic in Zale, a so-called third lane that will allow for a more normal connection. I hope that this will also be realized in the coming years, because the item is also in the country's development plans, which are also part of the state budget for the coming years. However, I would return to my colleague Puksic and his grumbling as his amendments or their amendments to the opposition at the time were rejected. I'd like to remind him of a very nice elementary school in Destern. I have been in Destrinnik several times and my colleague Pukšič has shown us with great pleasure - we, fellow Members - this school and obviously my colleague Pukšič did not need to read the amendments, because the government has given him all the school and that in the regular program of the school tolar. Of course, the municipality also contributed to probably students or their parents that Destrinik received one of the most beautiful primary schools in Slovenia. Thus, colleague Pukšič, as opposition Member, was obviously very successful and managed to convince the government that she has included this huge investment in the programme and that she certainly deserves such a school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u109	You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u110	Dear fellow Member Just Bevk. So it was not all in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the construction of the elementary school, not Pukšičeva, but the primary school in the municipality of Destrnik, where today there are about 270 children and some over 40 in kindergarten. The main school in Destrnik was built with eight annexes together with the budget of the Municipality of Destrnik. Tell me another contract in which the Ministry of Investment Education signed 8 annexes with the municipality. Which means that in the beginning she was completely sub-capitalized, completely completely different from, of course, what she was supposed to be. And the last, the eighth annex that was signed, we only got a real 22 million tolar. The rest is in the budget because it was a condition, whether you accept it and sign that the state has settled everything for you. It is not, not to Pukšič, not from the Municipality of Destrnik, but from the municipal budget we had to give 8 million Slovenian tolars more. Even today, this country owes the Municipality of Destrnik 8 million Slovenian tolars, which, of course, is not a small amount of money for the budget of the municipality, which today has about a million two hundred thousand euros. Even this government, including this Education Minister who went from Destrinnik to that elementary school, cannot fix this, of course, because the District of State did not go to sue what was the mayor's fault and, of course, the municipal council for not imposing this on me. Now your hands are out of date, even if your hands are out of date, if you owe someone something, you have the right to live your whole life, the moral obligation to settle your debt. Obviously, this country has not done so and will not do so, but it has harmed those citizens and citizens in that congregation who are still making such or other investments in roads, plumbing, sewerage and so on, helping, working and so on. In short, that's the truth with eight annexes. And there's something else I can prove. In the contract, it was decided for one year that there would be 130 million in the budget - now I am speaking a little bit in mind - but there were only some 35 million left in the coming years, which caused those who led the investment, huge problems, really huge problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u111	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can see the hand, so I'm reopening the debate. Please sign up. We're still in general business for 2008. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, 8 million can be a great deal of money for the congregation’s budget in Destrnik. However, 8 million in terms of the total investment of these beautiful schools, I think it is no longer negligible, although I know that it is difficult to replace 8 million in the municipal budget of such a small congregation. However, I think that much of this investment has gone from the state budget, despite the fact that today the former student of this school, as minister, cannot cover this additional cost, but I think that the Municipality of Destrinik, despite the 8 million tolars to be converted into euros, will survive with such a capable mayor and MP.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u113	Mr. Puksich, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u114	Mr. Samo's colleague. Of course, the congregation will survive, and it has already survived. It is true, however, that some of the municipalities that were refinanced in the previous term, which received 20% over the appropriate use of that 1998 penal law, spent billions and billions, but have neither a citizen nor a citizen of those municipalities nor schools, I do not know what they are all about. Where they wasted, where that money went - to various bank purchases and I don't know what it was, and then it floated into so-called weird privatisation and now some are getting rich about it. Of course, there was no such thing happening in Desterna, and it is something completely different with such small funds. But according to the billions that have been spent elsewhere, nothing has been done about it, it is unfair for the congregation of Destrnik that this has not been settled to this day.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u115	Thank you. However, I would suggest that we stick to the agenda and not to the Municipality of Destrnik. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! Once again, I find that the compatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions is a mistake. On Saturday, on the Committee on Finance, we were able to find that our inflation is 5.1% composed by generating only 1.4% of the dam inside of it and that the largest generator of this kind is inside the food, the largest seller of "best neighbor", Mercator, with its leadership "cashing" along with various margin supplements up to 70%. Even the Prime Minister of the Government and the Minister of the Economy are criticising him, who gave this same leadership to Mercator and may have made order and thereby reduced the food supplement to inflation. We have listened here today to all the possible stories we see in our own way, perhaps we have already said too much or not all of us, as someone says; and one of these stories is, Mr Minister, you will have to be careful in some parts. I agree with the additional funds for hospitals, etc., especially hospitals, which are also used in the eastern part of Slovenia. But some exclusive hospital equipment has certain suppliers. The Ministry of Defence equipped a mobile hospital, a tent hospital, where the hospital was fully equipped, but if you look at the minutes of Minister Erjavac, of course this equipment was purchased in his time, the record says that the equipment was not fully delivered, that it was delivered wrong or something else. And it will not happen that again the same supplier or this lady who has exclusive medical equipment will also equip these hospitals - specifically I think of Maribor - and that it would not happen the same thing as other supplies. We had a chance to see it at the operating tables. A call that was written specifically on this supplier when equipping the Paediatric Hospital and so on. And if we didn't have the stories that we're going to be disgusted with on this side, you probably should be on that side. I'm sorry, time's up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u117	Thank you. I can still see the hands for the debate. Re-enabled login. We are still in the general part of the 2008 proposal. Mr. Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A few words in general work, perhaps a little later on in the amendments, but I cannot help but say that we have already received amendments or revisions of amendments, Mr Minister, at the table of Members and Members. One thing that really irritates me is that the coalition MPs have put roughly the same amendments to the budget as the opposition, the difference between these amendments is that where the SDS, NSI, SLS, DeSUS writes, it says below: "The government supports:" It is the same amendments. I'll think about it. The road to Tržič, the ring near Tržič. When it comes to the opposition amendment, which says, "about the circle or the bridge in the Pesnica near Maribor, it says, "It does not support." It's the same road. Let me tell you, please, what is the difference, except that a Member comes from coalition species, that the road in Tržič, I mean, more important than the road in the Pesnica near Maribor. I don't think so! There's no difference. Both roads are equally important. The only strength of an individual Member is different. And if you continue to claim that you are in favour of the development of regional roads and will reject the scale, as you did on the committee, the opposition amendments and accept your own, I will believe that this is a political game in the design of the budget either for 2008 or for 2009. I just can't find another explanation here. Since we have a review on the table, the roads are equivalent, they are municipal or state roads, they are municipal roads where the state co-finances their construction, and you say with all government amendments that, but not with opposition roads. And you will be able to explain this distinction between the two roads very deeply, because otherwise it is a political budget that I cannot support. Next thing you know, I'd like to mention it. In the proposal for a development programme, I found quite a few things that touch the RCC, the Roman Catholic Church. The Church of St. George in Piran, the Church of St. Peter and Paul reconstruction of EUR 17,293 or, in my opinion, the sacral or cultural monuments of our country are still strictly separated by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Here I would like to tell you through another matter, why I am convinced that the state or the Church could take care of the reconstruction of a particular facility. The Archbishop of Maribor is a dominant legal person with 100% known capital and owner. A controlling legal person shall not produce a group annual report because it does not need to do so under the Company and Other Regulations Act. Let me just remind you that the company is the company Rast d.o.o. majority owner of T2, Zvon 1 Holding, which is the majority or at least 20% owner of companies of all groups Belinka, Alpetour, Terme Dobrna, Terme Olimje, Zincarna Celje, Helios, Krekova company, Niko Železniki, Papigor holding company, and Sole Orto in Croatian Brac, TKK Srpenica and so on and so on. The first conclusion that I can find out about this is that the Archbishop of Maribor has a super-successful leader. Mirko Krašovec, the entire group of economies, growth, appears as 50 in Slovenia after income in 2006. But would it not be fair and fair to the budget of the people in this country, that all these reconstructions that I mentioned earlier, this successful company, which is a church, whose owner is fully known, would be renovated at the expense of this money and this successful annual report on the operation of the company, economic growth d.o.o. Why rely on the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who invest in this budget? We know there are more of us, there are those who regularly visit this, we are those who believe and those who do not. But this company is so successful that it could take on a certain burden of our country and do it alone. This would, however, be a very small percentage of the budget, but it would. When we talk about the savings and the wealth of this government and this budget. Why didn't that happen? That was rational, meaningful, completely. Once again, I stress, given the review of the amendments, as we received it on the bench and we will talk about it a little later. The amendments of government MPs, the government coalitions are no different from the amendments of the opposition. Every Member, given the fact that this is an election year, advocates the reconstruction of a road, a section, a bank. The only difference is that the government of the bank from which the government Member comes supports and the bank, where the opposition Member comes from, does not support or reject. And you're gonna have to explain this difference to me when we talk about the amendments. Someone will have to tell me why the road in Tržič, Miklavž, Wants more important than the road in Kungota? Someone's going to have to explain this to me, because it's not until then that I'm going to believe it's not a politically directed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. I promise you, Mr President, that I will no longer talk about the congregation of Destrnik today. However, I fully agree with the Mayor of the Municipality of Destrnik that the 1998 Law on the Financing of Municipalities was flawed and unfair to a wide range of environments. Not only to the congregation of Destrnik but also to such congregations, such as the congregation of Idrija. However, because formerly, my colleague Puksic replicated in some way that someone could understand that we had something to do with this law in 1998, let me say that we were in opposition at the time, and that this law, at least I, was opposed to it. The main authors of this law were two of the two largest coalition parties from the Slovenian People's Party and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, so that this law was really not well written or was well written on the skin of some municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u121	Thank you. Because it's still an interest; first of all, Mr. Minister. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to explain because they just re-emerged, as regards the impact of the rise in food prices on inflation in Slovenia. I would like to explain what I have already said in my opening words this morning that this impact, at least so far as is known, when we go to look at the truly fragmented data we have available by the end of September, that the rise in unprocessed food actually represents 1.3% of the total inflation, but that the price of processed food is an additional 0.6. This is said, at least by the end of September, when such breakdowns are available, I hope that in the coming days we will have even more fragmented, by the end of October. That's what the data is. So, just explain. There's been a different form of information here, and I'd like to explain it. That's it for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u123	Thank you. So, I'm reopening the possibility of applying for a debate. Anyone who wants to discuss it, please sign in. Mr. Hwauc, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I have to take this. We've explained some things a lot. First of all, as far as the budget deficit is concerned. It is true that movements are beneficial. We agree with the opposition, but at night some things are simply not ugly. If the greatest success of the previous government coalition was to reduce the budget deficit to 2.3%, then I don't know how you can expect this government to create a surplus in two years. This government, with a cost-effective policy, reduced this budget deficit first to 1.5% in 2005 and then to 1.2% and 0.9%, as projected for 2008. With this balance, this is further reduced to 0.6. So we are on the right track and I think, given our level of development, that we cannot expect this to actually be resolved overnight, but, of course, if this government coalition gets the chance to continue, we can certainly expect a surplus tomorrow. The second is about the question that I heard earlier, and where did this money go that was supposed to be meant to build highways? We in Slovenia don't just need a highway. There is a lot to invest in state roads, hugely in railway infrastructure, and if we look at indicators in this area, there are enormous increases in the overall transport infrastructure. Here's the money. It is true, however, that because we have earmarked a large amount of funds for another transport infrastructure, much of the construction of motorways can be financed by credit. But it's nothing wrong. But if someone is trying to say that we're building roads too fast or highways and that we don't need them anywhere, then let them say it out loud. To reduce the pace of construction in Pomour or Prekmurje, move your hands, extend your hands, and say it out loud. However, if we want and think that people, citizens, want these roads to be built as soon as possible, we need to continue at this pace. That's it. And then there's the third one. I thank my colleague Zagorec very much for noticing that even in the municipalities of Hoče, Slivnica, Miklavž, perhaps the Parents, the State is investing certain funds, but not because I am a Member from this area, but because someone else has noticed that it is also possible to invest in these municipalities and that is why these investments are being made there because they are such needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u125	Thank you. Since it's still an interest, I'm opening the application. Excuse me, Mr. Friend, excuse me, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, you know, there are illogical things and there are also incomprehensible things. For me, it is understandable that we actually have excellent economic growth, but the budget deficit and at the same time 11% of our expenditure is rising. In fact, there are things at first sight that are incomprehensible to a common mortal, but if he looks deeper at the budget, you know what bush the rabbit can touch right away. Look, you're building economic performance on the poor. Poverty is increasing, it is a known fact, and we are growing more and more each day. And the fact is, even for farmers, subsidies are running out, although we know that rarely any farmer has the opportunity to survive with his land that he can cultivate in Slovenia, at some existential minimum is difficult to reach. Maybe somewhere in Pomure, here in Crassus, I'm sure that's not possible. And for state roads on which the greatest mortality is, we also do not have enough money to maintain it, so that, in fact, despite the opposition's proposal to supplement the budget, this has been overheard. It seems that this agony will continue. And if we're looking at another anomaly, we have successful companies that you're selling, so you're raising the success story in the economy. We have sold the General Sailing, you intend to sell the actual Luka Koper, now we will update, we have heard it a few times today, even from the Minister's mouth with substantial state money, including the railways that you will sell later. You know, it's not really a good master, it's rather the issue of national interests than actually good management and someone's going to have to pay the bills and tell you why you did it even when you're not there anymore. In short, it is a very, very unfair and unfair act that in fact the government makes stories of success, with an increase in poverty. However, we do have in the Constitution article 2 that we are a social state, but hungry does not have the right to be satisfied. And to sell the company to the worker in which he created the value added for the treasurer, Mr German Döhle borrowed for a few days 50 million, which he later took out of the General Navigation and is the owner today. You know, it's a shame, and it's the only Slovenian company in the business of shipping. Tomorrow you'll sell, as we've already heard, Luka Koper, 75% and 70% and the Intereuropo. Where will you find the answer to that? Not to mention the other companies you sold, where 6% of the success story is hidden. But how do you know that in the budget? These parameters just don't go together. And there's something else I'd like to warn you about. The Prime Minister spoke in this Chamber that he knew about the people who took the money out years ago and today bring it in and bind yachts and buy new businesses. Why doesn't he say it? I asked him three times with a question from the Member States to check, however, the origin of the assets for those who have made enormous wealth. This is a normal procedure in countries of democracy to check the source of property. Nothing happens. So are we a banana republic or are we a democratic European state? I'd say it's the first one. And when the people wake up, you won't have time to explain, then it'll be too late. It is free to say that employers are guilty, the state is guilty, but if workers are not allowed to participate in the profits they have created. Don't even let that happen. At a correspondence meeting, this decision could be adopted. Well, I don't believe in this budget and I won't support it. I also do not believe that the amendments from the opposition will be adopted because this is a voting machine that is grinding and will vote on what he has decided to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Friend, Zagorac - you wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u128	Thank you, Madam President, but I give up this replica, given that it seems to me that the replica is a very personal thing, and the man I wanted to replicate, this is Mr Hvauc, who is probably not behind his words, is not in this room, I think he would have replicated to someone else, would have been very meaningless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u129	Thank you. Is there any other interest in the 2008 General Work debate? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The general part of the 2008 draft amending budget will be decided on Wednesday, 28 November 2007, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We are moving on to a specific part of the 2008 draft amending budget I am opening an application for a debate on the specific part of the proposal for amending the 2008 budget. There are no applications for discussion, so I conclude. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments to the specific part of the proposal for amending the 2008 budget. I am putting forward three amendments to the sub-programme to support the security communities of the budgetary user of the Office for National Communities. Check-in is on. There's no sign-in. I'm actually going to call every amendment and let anyone raise their hand say or want to debate. I am putting to the debate an amendment to the sub-programme Support for Slovenians in place and abroad. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I am putting forward an amendment to the sub-programme Supplemental Funds to the municipalities of the Ministry of Finance. It's not. I am putting forward an amendment to the sub-programme of International Cooperation, the budgetary user of the Ministry of Defence. It's not. I am putting forward an amendment to the sub-programme of the Programme for the Promotion of Technological Development of the Economy. Mr. Webber, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Therefore, the Programme for the Promotion of Technological Development of the Economy should certainly also be a priority in the 2008 budget. Unfortunately, this is not the case. The resources for technological development are falling in the 2008 budget, although the government says, due to the changing dynamics of European Union funding utilisation, and are being transferred to 2009, therefore no additional funds are needed in 2008. Well, formally speaking, we will not be dealing with technological development, or obviously we have not brought the procedures so far as to draw funds from the European Union and simply write them off and we are not engaged in technological development this year. That is why we are also proposing an amendment to improve this situation and not allow technological development to fall further behind in 2008. And that is why it is certainly quite appropriate for us to devote EUR 2 million to this area additionally this year. Although we are taking the funds on the item technological development of the Ministry of Defence". In the opinion of the Government again, this is unacceptable as it is a financing of development projects within the framework of the Technology for Security and Peace programme and so on. At the same time, if we follow the amendments of the government coalition, they are calmly interfering with this area of technological development of the Ministry of Defence and are intended to asphalt the courtyards, roads. Many times, I must point out this, even in such a way that it is only in 2008 that these investments, which are proposed to be taken up by the Ministry of Defence and allocated to roads, are actually being launched. So, a very big question is whether such a distribution of funds is even appropriate. Well, as far as technological development is concerned, I would like to point out the following. We have been talking a lot lately about inflation, about what inflation does and not least about the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. We have heard that the Slovenian economy is extremely competitive as it sells successfully in foreign markets or exports successfully. However, in all these recent events, we must very seriously ask ourselves whether this is not the performance of businesses and the competitiveness of businesses at the expense of workers, at the expense of low wages. It has been shown that many companies, with many employers, are definitely lagging behind inflation and are certainly lagging behind economic growth. And if we do not change these trends, it will certainly be necessary to react and provide more resources for wages as well. And that there will then be no surprises and perceptions as to whether the wage policy is the one that can also trigger the inflation spiral, I think it is still necessary to allow businesses to invest in technological development and thus achieve an added value through technology, which will also make them more competitive in external markets and on the basis of this added value will also be able to peacefully increase wages for employees in companies. Without technological development, it is not expected that wages will increase in line with the company's economic growth and performance. This direction and the government's decision to indisputably reduce funds for technological development in 2008 are not in favour of economic development, they are not in favour of solving the current problem in Slovenia, so our amendment is still needed to provide an additional two million Euros for technological development, as well as at the expense of the Ministry of Defence, because, as I said, it is better and better to put in, in fact, if we are already taking resources for defence, for technological development, than for asphalting individual courtyards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u131	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. Then I am putting to the debate two amendments to the Competitiveness Programme sub-programme. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u132	Thank you. Otherwise, I would have used the explanation in the previous amendment, but it's a different area. But it is also very clear here that the 2008 budget for the Competitiveness Programme is declining. Here, too, at the expense of the dynamics of EU spending, it just confirms that these key development programmes have not actually been sufficiently designed during this period. Let me just add this: the increase in competitiveness is not acceptable at the expense of wages alone and we must also respond with the budget to this problem in order to improve the competitiveness of our companies also through the mechanisms financed by the Republic of Slovenia's budget. And this amendment devotes €825,000 to a programme to increase competitiveness and, with the very clear fact that these funds have decreased in the 2008 budget, this amendment is, of course, necessary and meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u133	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're still with the Ministry of Economy. I am putting to the debate the amendments to the sub-programme Restructuring of Enterprises. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u134	I continue to debate because I would like to point out that there is also a decrease in funds in the 2008 budget in the restructuring of businesses. And just restructuring companies is one of those important processes that companies can prepare as soon as possible, both with a demanding domestic market and, of course, for the external market. Without successful restructuring, it is also not possible to participate in EU tenders in order to obtain funds for technological development. This negative impact of economic policy is therefore reflected in all of the three areas that I have discussed this very moment. As soon as we carry out business restructuring, companies will be ready to draw on EU funds also to increase competitiveness and also to increase their knowledge of technology. That is why we are spending a million and a half euros for this purpose, and we expect this systematic error, if I may say so, in the economy of politics and the adoption of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u135	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then I am putting to the debate an amendment to the sub-programme Promoting the development of a small economy. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u136	The small economy is one of those areas within the Ministry of Economic Affairs, namely the area of development in Slovenia, which we must pay particular attention to. It is not always expected that larger companies will occur in all regions, in all areas, especially in those where, say, there is large unemployment and there is also a large number of labour-intensive industries. In short, stronger companies appear either along highways or in more accessible cities and places and are also trying to successfully develop their programme. In such a way that the development of a small economy is still needed, including through coherent regional development, due to the equitable development of smaller towns, smaller cities, and especially those where the so-called network of business incubators is planned to be established, with which these incubators can accelerate the creation of new businesses, the emergence of new programmes, they can listen to new ideas and with the additional means or resources that we are earmarking for this in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and this will also be enabled. However, if these means of the sky, then it is not expected that we can expect a consistent development in Slovenia, but a concentrated development in those places and places where development is already as present and, in the meantime, there are even greater differences, and this inequality is certainly the one that shows that it is necessary to invest 3 million and a half euros to promote the development of the small economy and thus provide as many jobs as possible in smaller places or in places dealing with exceptional development problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I would only like to respond in the segment to the fact that a significant part of the amendments is therefore linked to the Ministry of Defence, mainly to the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Slovenia committed in the pre-accession negotiations of the Alliance to establish the relevant organisation and structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces and also to allocate adequate financial resources to this area. For 2008, the budget for this area was expected to reach 2% of gross national product. The existing budget reaches 1.7% of gross national product, it is said, under commitments such as Slovenia made at the beginning of this decade. I would like to add the following to this, given the discussion, if I may, of course, which was also exposed here. The Ministry of Defence does not acquire funds from items it has in order to provide weapons, infrastructure and other items that it would choose, either by its own free will or by an individual approach or by any other means, but it does so in accordance with the resolution adopted in this Parliament in 2004. This is a fundamental solution in terms of equipment, and this is also intended for individual items developed through the Basic Development Programmes of the Defence Forces Act 2008-2015, with which this National Assembly has also committed the Ministry of Defence to prepare activities for which up to €105 million of multi-annual projects can be allocated to this segment. Here he might only touch on it because there was also quite a debate about the investments themselves in this segment. It is important to know that in this year the old Basic Development Programmes Act, which was extended in 2003, is concluded and that all financial resources are from now on in the annual budgets of the Ministry of Defence. Therefore, it is no longer a matter of lending or borrowing credit for this area, as it has been done from 1994 to 2007, but it is a transparent system, what and how much funding is invested in this segment. Of course, given that the programmes are determined that the programmes are in line with the 2007-2012 medium-term defence programme, that these programmes are set in accordance with the objectives of the Republic of Slovenia and that all these segments are based on the Resolution on the overall long-term development of the Slovenian Armed Forces, we oppose amendments to reduce the volume of funds for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u139	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u140	Thank you. Of course, I would understand the Ministry of Defence's concern about their budget line, but you have not convinced me with this explanation, because the fact that you are spending around €2.5 million directly from your ministry on some road solutions that are actually coming up strictly and solely because of the narrow personal interests of individual Members of the coalition parties. I would understand your explanation if you could also explain how you could then spend 2.5 million euros for such purposes. It is true that Slovenia's obligations exist in this area, they are very serious and necessary, but, somehow, I do not understand how Slovenia can also afford to reduce, say, the Ministry of Defence funds for technological development during this period. And this is precisely the kind of activity, for the development that, let's say, would provide all our boys with additional security in perspective, even better efficiency and, of course, even better equipment with their own knowledge that they can manage these difficult situations, luckily not at home, but in the world, and by allowing the reduction of funds for technological development to, in my opinion, further reduce the interest in employment within the Ministry of Defence or for the needs of the Slovenian Army. If you expose someone solely and solely with naked and simple weapons, he will certainly not be willing to participate in this project. However, if he knows that there are a number of research, both materials and techniques at the back and that he can, in fact, participate successfully and make progress in his career, the transfer of the Ministry of Defence policy would be significantly more appropriate and effective. In this case, it seems more reasonable to me, however, that if we are already taking resources from the Ministry of Defence, we are not just earmarking them and only for the needs of paved roads, but in fact to encourage the development of a small economy, which will certainly also contribute greatly through the payment of taxes, so that in the future we can really reach the 2% of GDP that we need in order to achieve all the goals we have set by joining NATO. Roads will not pay these taxes, except for those other negative taxes that we sometimes call blood taxes, but Slovenia certainly also needs a stable small economy, good payers if you want, to be able to reach these two percentages. This amendment is also much closer to the interests of the Ministry of Defence, in my opinion, than, of course, money is devoted to roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u141	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I think it is my duty to clarify what is involved when we look at data, including historical data, about the funds that have been earmarked for certain functions. This is item 5 Science and technological development. Throughout the year 2000, I am now talking about the euro, and this is a 79.2 million euro issue. Then in 2001 121.5, in 2002 129.8, in 2003 146.9, and in 2004 163.3. From there on and in 2005 177.7, in 2006 207.4. The implementation assessment for 2007 is 223.5, but the proposed budget is currently 263.2. So that science and resources for science and technological development do not increase, it simply does not. However, you can review the documentation, and I will not fully explain it now, and these are accounts 501, 502, 503 and 504, which are broken down for what purposes all these funds are actually devoted to. Here it was, by 2006, there are already closing accounts, for 2007 there is an assessment, but for the information I have said for 2008 is, of course, a proposal that is now on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u143	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u144	Minister, look. "The programme for the promotion of technological development of the economy is being partially reduced in the 2008 budget, according to the 2008 budget. Due to the change in the dynamics of EU funding to be transferred in 2009. Therefore, no additional resources are required in 2008." This is the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This is the explanation for these amendments, which I say must be accepted and tabled by the Social Democrats. So that your claims and assurances unfortunately, in the field of economy, economic development or technological development in the field of the economy, do not hold.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u146	Just an explanation. I have not said anything about any other matter, as the honourable Member now mentions. I just wanted to make it clear that his claim that funds are actually falling for this purpose is increasing. But it is less than it is in the current budget, and of course it is true and this is once one that it is. But it is not the same when it is said here that these funds are falling in full, in fact they are increasing and will be almost 4 times more in 2008, than in the year, in euros as in 2000 and 2001. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u148	Mr. Minister, this information is out of date, too. At the time it is; otherwise, it is not completely outdated, but at the time that the Committee on Finance has supported the amendment, which distributes it from technological development, there are approximately EUR 2 and a half million, these percentages, of course, are no longer in line because I am sure that this information does not contain this information.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u149	Thank you. Yes, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u150	Yeah, sure. That's right. If the National Assembly accepts these amendments, there will be €260 million instead of €263. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u151	Thank you. We are moving on to the amendment to the sub-programme Protection of competition of the budgetary user of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of competition. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u152	In a situation where we currently have a situation in Slovenia on the Slovenian market, we are facing a huge price rise. This is certainly also in one part because obviously the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition was unable or able to monitor the event in Slovenia in this area, either due to technological, human or spatial needs. And one of the responses to the current situation should certainly be that we devote more resources to this office so that it can be more effective, so that it can also take possible measures and acquire the knowledge that it has not been able to implement so far because of the lack of resources, even though it might want them. That is why this amendment is very welcome, to say very concretely, we have stepped on inflation, we have stepped on the gulf of price increases in Slovenia, and one of the concrete measures is to increase funds for the Office for the Protection of Competition. I would also like to point out another interesting fact, because somehow there are not many amendments to this topic, because in Slovenia we do not actually achieve enough self-sustainment with our own food products, of course there is a significant price rise, because if the demand is greater than you can provide it, this ratio is very fast, such a situation is also used very quickly to raise prices. And it would be good if the Office for the Protection of Competition also looked into this area, because then it could be a good answer for the anti-infliction measures and thus only one particular case I am trying to actually try to strengthen the Institute of the Office for the Protection of Competition and the 100,000 Euros, as far as we are concerned, is certainly, if nothing else, at least known, the guidance shown, that we are aware of these consequences in the National Assembly, and that we want to do so as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u153	Thank you. We are moving on to an amendment or two amendments to the Transport Regulatory and Control Sub-programme. We're at the Ministry of Transport. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Weber, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u154	In this area and in this amendment, I must say that I am actually satisfied that the Government has detected this problem and that it provides EUR 2 million for monitoring and building the information system and all the necessary devices for efficient tolling, as the fact is that, in so far as we do not organise and execute all the necessary procedures in a timely manner, there will be a very large deficit in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in the coming years, which we do not see right now, because highways are financed by credits that are not exclusively subject to the budget, otherwise the guarantees provided by the Republic of Slovenia for these credits, but of course very large problems will arise when these credits need to be returned and if there is no effective tolling system, there will be a large deficit, both in Darsa and later in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This has been pointed out throughout the debate on budget adoption, and I am pleased that the government has detected this problem. However, I believe that the resource used by the government is inappropriate. It also takes some of the funds from the highway construction budget and allocates them to the toll system. It would also be much more effective here if you wanted the Government to decide on a different principle, whether or not to reach out to the Ministry of Defence and allocate these two million euros to the toll system, as these funds would return to the budget and allow the implementation of the already mentioned programme and also the effective development of tolling. So that, somewhere else, this warning that we have given in the budget, but of course the very source for us right now, is really not appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u155	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then I am putting to the debate an amendment to the sub-programme of the Roadway Facility. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u156	From the moment the government decided to build motorways only, and only with credits, it has been a while, and we still haven't received a rebalancing of the Resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the National Assembly. If this rebalancing of the Resolution of the construction of motorways were to be reached in the National Assembly, we could today very clearly discuss such a decision by the government, which I claim has no basis, a real legal basis, precisely because funding sources have changed, given the current Resolution on the Construction of Highways. In such a way that the financial consequences of such financing will be known both in the functioning of Dars himself and in the enforcement of guarantees. And all the time, we Social Democrats have pointed out that we must also have balanced financial resources to build highways. We do not object to the completion of this highway programme in 2008-2009 and to the implementation of this, one of the largest projects in the history of independent Slovenia in this period until the end, but we have always warned that we also need very high-quality resources, and these quality resources have also been a gas toll, which we have also legalised in the National Assembly, but of course we have not prescribed sanctions, unless the Government actually does not have these resources at the level it gathers with the gas toll, invested back in the construction of motorways and that is why what is happening to us now is that these funds are overflowing elsewhere. As the adoption of the amendment, which is intended to update the toll system as soon as possible, remains a very large question as to whether the system to which the Government has decided will be decided, so it is possible to make satellite toll systems more accessible in such a short time, the 2008 budget of the Republic of Slovenia also needs to provide a concrete financial contribution to ensure that this gap between the credit and the ability to repay Darsa will not become too large. Roads, both in scale and in height, can now be very clear about this, not enough to pay the commitments already made. By effectively reducing this gap with these 15 million euros and ensuring a stable development and management of motorways and, respectable colleagues, we also provide a very good starting point for an additional highway programme after 2009, so it is all those development axes, the third development axis, the third A development axis, the fourth development axis, which are still expected to arrive as soon as possible when the highway programme is completed. There are no sources for these additional development axes, but if we provide a stable funding system for Dars, we will also have a good potential for further investment in these development axes, or these are the most remote routes or places that do not lie directly along the highway. So the need to adopt this amendment is still a big one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u157	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. Then I am putting to the debate an amendment to the airport sub-programme and airport infrastructure. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u158	As regards airports and the development of airport infrastructure, I think that we can very quickly describe the situation in a way that reveals that the Ljubljana airport, i.e. Aerodrome Ljubljana, d.d., has done a great deal in the last period and has updated this airport to this stage, in order to really meet all the standards also to take over the new Schengen regime. Of course, this is not the case at the Maribor airport, nor at the Puerto Rican airport, which is still two international airports in Slovenia, but a smaller one. The fact is that airports in the European Union face the need for enlargement after taking over the growing traffic. And one of the important discussions in the European Union is how to ensure the development of these airports in a short time to accept this increased traffic. Well, we have a different situation in Slovenia. So, at our central airport, transport is increasing, but Maribor still faces extremely modest transport, and the government still proposes that it invests in infrastructure and is only that extent of investment and understanding of the development of the Maribor airport, which it considers appropriate. However, the fact is that we are updating the infrastructure and there is not enough air transport on this infrastructure in Maribor. We therefore propose to use the mechanism allowed by the European Union to subsidise air carriers wishing to land at the Maribor airport. This will greatly increase our interest in landing at the port of Maribor, while at the same time Slovenia will even more present itself as one of the possible solutions for unloading some other airports in the European Union which face excessive traffic. So this amendment is a really new way of thinking about the development of the Maribor airport and, of course, we expect it to receive support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u159	Thank you. In the debate I am putting two amendments to the sub-programme Management and Current Maintenance of State Roads, we are with the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I am putting 54 amendments to the sub-programme "Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads", which is the main package of all amendments under the Slovenian Roads Directorate. But there are more interested people here, so I'm just going to open up the application procedure. Mr. Pache, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u160	Your Honors are here! In the context of the National Party's Group, we have tabled several amendments or added them to the draft budget to this sub-programme. I have to say from this address that my colleague Zagorec and I will be defending them selectively. Allow me to make two points out of this town, according to my assessment, of how much more urgent it is to supplement the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. The first refers to the Municipality of Maribor, the municipality of Maribor, which was also discussed in connection with the general discussion. In the National Party, we specifically want, on the basis of a conversation with the Mayor of the Municipality of Maribor, Mr Kangler, from which the amendments are also made, to supplement the budget of EUR 60,000 in the area of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, on the route or rather on the route of the Proletar Brigade-Limbuška road. According to my assessment, as assessed by the proposer, as well as by the author's assessment, i.e. the Municipality of Maribor, of course, the State or rather the Ministry of Finance would reach into that segment which would allow for the normal movement of transport on the one hand and, on the other hand, daily migration by employees or visitors to the city in a much shorter time, in order to provide financial resources for the route. On the other hand, I must say that the financial resources we are planning to carry out this intervention, which I once again estimate that as a Mariborian, I can very rightly say that it is more than necessary in an important area, would be taken by the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, especially in view of the fact that the Republic of Slovenia has entered into the relationship with NATO. So, in the organization for which members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have repeatedly told us that they will not require additional funding. According to our assessment, a large proportion of people are currently facing a much more serious problem of day migration, such as the threat of our country, the Republic of Slovenia. And, of course, please, not only the Styria Members, in the framework of the vote, but especially those Members who know the problems of day migration to support the amendment, essentially the amendment for the Maribor Municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! You probably won't have any idea what I'm going to talk about right now. It's two amendments that you can believe are very important to me and to reconstruct two roads that are very important, but when I look at the ones I believe you won't know what I'm talking about. The first amendment speaks of the reconstruction of the bridge over the Song River in Yuri. The bridge is just before it could collapse and may require additional casualties, unless the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is going to re-enact this bridge. And the second amendment I'm talking about is the so-called construction of a new superstructure in the Šentilj municipality for freight transport. I am talking about that border belt that is causing, even now, the greatest crowd, especially during the holidays when it comes to the Republic of Slovenia. However, in spite of my amendments or amendments, the Slovenian National Party writes "Government does not support," although probably all present here do not know what I am talking about, what bridge it is. While I'm looking here at the other 30 amendments to the ruling coalition, where do I find the road Big Polana - Gomilica, Kluže - Walls, and you probably don't know what I'm reading and what it's about, but it says alongside "The government supports". And very happy, distinguished Mr. Finance Minister, it would be if you could explain to me why the road Velika Polana - Gomilica and Kluže - The Wall is more important than the overpass in Šentilje or the bridge across the Posnica River in the municipality of Kungota. Only then will I believe that this is not a politically-set budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. Trophynic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. I'm not going to root for any of these amendments, as usual, but I'm going to repeat what I asked on the board, and I didn't get any answers. The government agrees with the positional amendments that go against the Ministry of Defence in the current budget. I wonder: What is the reason that the Government can miss the item itself proposed last year in the current budget so that these funds can now be redistributed for ever-popular roads? On the other hand, I am interested in the position of the Directorate for Roads at the Ministry of Transport and Roads Directorate: Do you not master your job to know the state of Slovenian state roads and to suggest to the Government the reallocation and not by the criterion "we, ours - yours", but by the criteria of priority on Slovenian state roads. I've asked for this answer before today's session, I wouldn't even ask, but I don't think that's the answer or not. But if he does, I'll be pleasantly surprised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u166	Thank you. This is a real package of amendments that indicate that, although the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is, it is slightly different to think of a coalition, but that Slovenia is not where there is no member from the coalition or that place for the budget and development of the road network for them is not really important and does not exist. I think that logic is bad, it's wrong, and we shouldn't actually afford it to that extent. I would especially expect that there might be at least one, two, I do not say three amendments also the opposition to accept that they can feel and say, "Look, we will also try to solve some problems where only coalition parties' representatives do not come from." However, unfortunately, at least in the process of addressing the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the changes in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008, this is not the case. In particular, in this package of amendments, I would like to point out the amendment that I have tabled myself. It is an update of the macadamian state road, which connects Kočevsko with the White Krajina, somehow cuts the Kočevski horn and therefore the shortest link between Kočevsko and the White Krajina, all the other links are running along the edge of Kočevská Roga, so these distances are at least 20 kilometers longer, which suggests that communication and cooperation are also very difficult. The fact is that this southern part of Slovenia, Bela Krajina and Kočevska is also the area facing the biggest development problems and has the greatest development needs. And one of the concrete solutions is to pave the state road. I must stress the state's because the government has written in this amendment that the State Roads Directorate does not deal with local roads. It is a mistake to understand this amendment, so this amendment refers to the modernisation of only one section, which is currently designed, and it is a 3.3km section of the macadam road, state road, from Brezovice to the intersection for the village of Koprivnik, and from this intersection to Koprivnik, the 6km of the macadam local road, which the congregation will arrange, update, and thus we can reach a link between the places in the municipality of Kočevje and the asphalt road. Next, we would expect the country to continue updating the remaining approximately nine kilometres of macadamian section and to reach the so-called shortest link to the White Krajina. But the thinking of the coalition is really different, because in the original programme of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads, this investment was planned for 2008, because all the necessary technical documentation was made to enable the investment to start. Well, thinking was completely different. No, what is being prepared must not be in the 2008 budget, we are allocating funds for many new investments that have not yet been documented at all, and it is a matter of whether there will be any realisation of this. More interesting, however, is the following explanation for this amendment, as it is an amount of €83 000, so that there will be no big shocking story about this amendment. 54,000 Euros in this amendment to modernise this road from the activities of the General Secretariat of the Government. It is clear from the Government's explanation that EUR 54,000 could jeopardise the functioning of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Ha, well, actually a very serious intervention in the operation of the Government with this amount, but I think that if we are real and somehow realize how much resources the Government actually has at its disposal, even any mechanism gives it the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia, so that it can fill certain gaps between items that would not allow the activities to be carried out, it can do so at any time. And I have absolutely no doubt and no concern that the Government would not take care of itself and secure, for example, these EUR 54,000 from an area where, for example, I would find that there is no realisation as planned in the budget. So it is really kind of hard to take to heart that some modernisation of the road in Kočevska would endanger the government, especially because I know that many procedures and events in Kočevska have allowed us to even have the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, however, I note that the coalition, through the proposed amendments and through the withdrawal of investments that have been in some normal programme, is leading to the Kočevska in a way that there is nothing in its history that connects this Government and the National Assembly with the fact that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has even begun to work, that the Slovenian government could have been established, in short, that we have carried out everything we wanted in many centuries and generations, and of course we have come to the final independence. That's why, more or less, I would say, burns, if I may say so, the fact that a small update of the 3.3km macadamian section of the state road, amounting to 54,000 euros, would jeopardize the functioning of the Slovenian government. The second part, amounting to EUR 30 000, concerns, in fact, the functioning or needs of public administrations. It is the provision of premises, buildings, investment, maintenance works, in particular when it comes to joint and larger projects, etc. If the Government has found that it can make one major by-pass in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008, 2009, and also many further, by deciding that, in my opinion, by a decision which does not have a legal basis, it can transfer the ability and tasks to the consulting and performance society to build for the needs of the ministries, for the purposes of the court, for the purposes of the general police administration of an investment of EUR 200 million, without any concern that the National Assembly is not all that this is not included in the budget, the Government will decide and grant competence to a consulting and execution company that has actually arisen solely and in order to bring about the final liquidation of the Slovenian development society, which we have set up by means of procedures owned, restructured and transferred the social property of enterprises to private enterprises, etc. But no. Instead of July 2007. The consulting and execution company has ceased to operate, and the Government has decided, without any amendment of the law, to order it to build a 200 million-euro ministry facility. And then I read in this amendment that 30,000 euros will prevent some normal functioning of public administrations. I'm sorry, I just can't understand or accept such explanations just from these facts, which I hope I've presented very concretely and in a plastic way. I hope that the real response and the Government's approach will be different from that set out in this explanation, that the Government of the Amendment rejects for the above reasons and I expect it to change its position and also influence that this modest achievement in the 2008 budget for Kočevska takes into account, which, I stress, is not only for Kočevska, but also for all the municipalities in Beli Krajina that still need cooperation, including with our space and not least, I repeat, this is an area along the southern border, it is an area along the new Schengen border, it is an area facing exceptional developmental problems and it is an area facing exceptional developmental problems and it is an area where, in fact, we are implementing the third A-development axis with a very serious problem. The government has not felt the need at all to include the third A development axis, specifically in the budget number in this programme. Of course, this also points to the approach and understanding of such remote places in the southern part of Slovenia. So I hope that there were at least some valid arguments that this amendment would also support and lead to this investment at some point in time, because this investment, as I said, would then continue in 2009, 2010 until the conclusion and to a much better communication and better conditions for work and life in the southern part of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. For two years I have consistently warned that the fourth development axis linking the Soča with central Slovenia should be considered in its entirety, not only its left upper leg, but also its right right-hand, so-called Idrian-logic leg of the fourth developmental axis. In spring 2006, the Government visited or began a visit to northern Primorska or Goriška with a visit to Kolektor in Idrija, in principle with President Janša. This was some kind of President's photo term, along with some ministers in one of Slovenia's most successful companies. After a while, we were able to read a report from the Transport Minister's press conference explaining how important the fourth development axis was, but he forgot about Idrija and said that the Idrians would have to deal with it and that they had the opportunity to travel to Ljubljana also through the Cerkna and Kladja in the Poljanska Valley, especially if the Zale competition is snowed in winter. It is said that the Idrians sent us across the Polish Valley to work in Ljubljana and me to the National Assembly as an MP. After two years of perseverance and caution in all this mandate, I have put nine questions and initiatives with the Minister of Transport at the forefront of this mandate, and finally this year we have experienced the promise of the Minister for Development and the Government to include the Idrija-logic leg of the fourth development axis in the 2007-2023 development resolution. Now that I've specifically proposed an amendment, nothing. But the truth of the matter is that the parent committee, since it had previously dealt with the 2009 budget, adopted one of my amendments, which touched the modernisation of Keltika at the most critical section of this fourth developmental axis on this Idrija-logic foot, is in the Zale race between Idrija and Godovic. For 2009, the Home Committee adopted my amendment and this project of the third railway band in the Zale Society was included in the 2009 budget plan and also in the development plans for the next few years or for three years, so that this investment of EUR 300,000 would be completed by 2011 or 2012, if I am not mistaken. And when I wanted to speed things up a little bit to get this project started in the coming year of 2008, my amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy if the investment and technical documentation had not yet been produced. I think that the services of the Directorates and all those institutions that cooperate with the Directorate have sufficient experts to speed up the preparation of this project technical documentation and could easily include this project of the third lane in the Zale race between Idrija and Godovic as well as in the 2008 state budget. Many times, from Idria to Logatz to the highway, it is not possible to outrun a passenger car, not just a bus or a truck without committing a series of offenses. This is such a deficient road that it absolutely requires more investment than it has been so far, so I have proposed this amendment. I would also point out that this section of the road is now practically every day on Radio Slovenia, at least in the past. What do you remember when they explain which roads are closed due to snowfalls, most often they say that the closed road is from Idria to Godovic and perhaps later via Col to Ajdovščina. Here, however, we have such an important concentrated economy in this Idrian and Church Industrial Pool, which is exclusively linked to truck transport and in wintertime, companies, such as Kolektor, Hydra Corporation, Eta Group in Cerknem and then businesses continue to face very great difficulties against Tolmin so that they can bring their products to the most demanding European and global markets in time to their customers. Therefore, I think that this amendment has been unduly rejected on the parental committee and I propose that, despite the negative opinion of the parent committee and the negative opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I would use Article 69 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a procedural question from which the Rules of Procedure allow me 3 minutes. But my aim is to take advantage of or ruin the time until 20 a.m. when we have six ruling Members present in plenary today. I just want to say who we should prevent at this point today and here from those who have the right to vote. Given the presence of Members and the fact that amendments should be one of those constituent parts of the national assembly procedure, by which it will be decided, which means that interested people who have the right to vote should also be raising questions for me, according to my opinion that it is justified to speak in front of a 99% empty hall, it is rather pointless, given that we have a time limit. And as I said in the introduction, I would not like to conclude the debate on this sub-chapter, which is extremely important on the basis of at least the amendments tabled to this point, and to continue with the second sub-chapter tomorrow. It follows that you use the 95th Rule of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which discusses the participation of Members at meetings of the National Assembly and its working bodies. I quote, "in the context of the available time", for which I am asking, given that it is procedural that I do not have the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u171	Mr. Pece, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u172	That's what I told you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u173	Let me answer that I will not take this into account, because there is no need for a debate to be concluded. A little earlier. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u174	Mr President, at this time [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u175	A little earlier, there was no one in the Chamber from your parliamentary group, and the debate was going on normally. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u176	Mr President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u177	I think [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u178	You are proceding time to the SNS Group, which I think is a really excessive violation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u179	Mr. Pache, they're gonna add you back. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u180	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u181	it was guaranteed. [[...]] Anyone else would like to discuss the sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads, as is of course time for discussion? I'm opening the application. To finish the subroutine and not interrupt the session in the middle of the subroutine. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, if you don't want to listen and call your fellow Members and colleagues in the Chamber for such an important debate, let me finish. Let me finish. Then I think it would be very reasonable to take into account the agreement that you made at the college, which is that at eight o'clock nothing will stop the meeting, despite the fact that we have not concluded this sub-programme at this point. It is eight and almost two minutes, so I think it would make sense, Mr President, for you to respect what you have concluded last time and to suspend today's meeting, which should continue at 9 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-26-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u183	I'm asking, do you think we should finish in the middle of the subroutine and continue tomorrow? Good. Then I interrupt the session and we'll resume tomorrow at 9:00.
