ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please take your seats. I begin the 26th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm asking you to calm down again. I'll wait for the honourable Members to calm down. Mr. Puksich, please calm down. Thank you. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Bogdan Barovic, Roberto Battelli, Mag. Janez Petty Officer. Dr. Slavko Gaber, Franc Horvat, Drago Koren from 17:00 on, Mojca Kucler Dolinar, Martin Mikolič until 14:00, Milan Petek, Franc Pukšič, Milenko Ziherl and Breda Pecan, after 14:00. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 26th session. Mr. Rob, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u2	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. Before this meeting, my colleague and I addressed to the President of the National Assembly the request of the LDS Club and the SD Group of Members for a meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly. The president of the National Assembly has decided not to call this college if time is not enough. However, we have had a conversation with the President of the National Assembly, from which it is clear that the President does not substantively agree with our initiative. The essence of this initiative, however, is that we believe that the College of the President of the National Assembly, when deciding and deciding on the time of the discussion, unduly limited the time of the candidates for this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. This is contrary to current practice in the work of this National Assembly. This is also, in our view, contrary to the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. We are convinced that the applicants must have sufficient opportunities for an extraordinary meeting, sufficient opportunities to clarify their views. Just as this discussion is now limited, only for half an hour, it will not be possible for them to show in a democratic debate, to prove what was really happening in the purchase of armoured personnel, how and in what way public funds are being spent irrationally in Slovenia. We are convinced that the College of the President of the National Assembly should re-decision on this, so we propose, on the basis of Article 73(3) of the Rules of Procedure, that we suspend the meeting of the National Assembly, that the College should be convened again, that it should decide again on the allocation of time and that it should be possible for the applicants of this meeting to have a normal discussion, that we should maintain democratic standards and that we should be given an opportunity and an opportunity before the entire Slovenian public to explain why what is actually going on in this case, what is being intended, and that we also have the right answers. I propose that we decide on this procedural decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u3	Thank you. Before I put to the vote a procedural proposal to mention that today, at 9 a.m., the College met, set the time for the debate, which is as follows: the whole meeting is supposed to take 7 hours and 55 minutes, without any explanation of vote, I do not count that. Of this coalition party 145 minutes, Minister 130 minutes and the opposition, also as the proposer, 200 minutes. That was the conclusion of the College. You have heard the procedural proposal that the meeting should be suspended and that it should be decided again at the College on, perhaps, a different proposal. We're voting. I'm breaking up because someone said the voting device wasn't working. Mr. Pavliha is working now. I didn't ask you to look at the voting devices, or the yellow light's on fire. I note that there are no further concerns about the voting apparatus, so we are voting on Mr Rope's procedural proposal. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 36. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. That is why we are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 26th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Anderlich? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u4	On behalf of the motioners. When I received today's schedule of time, as one of the first signatories to the request for an extraordinary meeting, I was not surprised to see how you, in fact, were, in your own and otherwise, as has been the practice so far or, above all, in the past, in the previous term, determined that only two candidates on behalf of the applicants, who have significantly more of us, could explain us in the first place and also get time on behalf of the applicants. And it's amazing how you balanced 39 signatures against the Minister's word. I would like to tell you that, say, in 2004, 7.10., when there was an extraordinary meeting on Soča, three introductory speakers spoke, 80 minutes was for the introductory. Then let's say a meeting when it comes to deleted discussions on this, i.e. a request for a call for a subsequent legislative referendum, including an extraordinary meeting, an urgent meeting on a request without a limitation of time, and so on, of course, that this mandate would establish a practice and obviously even more radical today than it has been in the past of these two years, when it was possible for the applicants to get the word more signed, more those who are all equal in the request to be discussed at an extraordinary meeting. You've made it your own will. It's just the two of you. I think that this is contrary to the Rules of Procedure and, above all, to the practice that you have established in the previous mandate, I have cited at least three cases, but there are even more. Not once in this term has there been any meeting which would not be restricted strictly under Article 67, third paragraph, even more so, you are going under here to limit the motions for discussion. What remains of the parliamentarians, what remains of all of us, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] both the coalition and the opposition, other than the debate? [[...]] Just as you were able to listen to the American Congress yesterday, as you can hear in Austria, how parliamentarians are discussing things that are problematic and right to talk about them, so we probably should not be different. Therefore, I invite you to call a college or decide otherwise from this address, if you do not want it from other addresses, because you have decided that we can only be two on behalf of the applicants on the list.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u5	I will no longer put to the vote about the college reference or the suspension, because we have already voted once. With regard to the proposers, I should say that the Rules of Procedure speak of representatives signed in a single and first-signed body having special weight and speaking on behalf of the signatories, but it has certainly been opened in the previous term that if several groups of Members are among the applicants, one of each group may act on behalf of the applicants. In the event of a previous meeting, the LDS Group announced 4 Members on behalf of the applicants. We tolerated this at the time, although I warned that this could not go on like that, because then the entire parliamentary group will soon announce itself on behalf of the applicants. At this meeting, the representatives of the candidates, namely 7 from the LDS Group and one from the Social Democrats Group of Members, were proposed. If this goes on, then our meeting will no longer be in normal contexts as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, in this meeting, I have proposed that any parliamentary group which has signatories to the request for a meeting may propose one on behalf of the Group of Members as a candidate. And I think that's right. I am now concluding a series of procedural issues and putting to the vote a proposal for a agenda as received by the meeting on 12 February. We're voting. There are 64 Members present and 57 votes against 1. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda has been adopted. We're moving on to agenda one. First we have to move on to the agenda, then you can propose. We're moving on to one. Agenda item 8x8, EPA 1273. The proposals for conclusions were submitted by a group of 39 Members and Members, first signed by Anton Anderlic, for consideration by the assembly. Mr. Skolcz, if you please, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must first conclude that you have violated the Rules of Procedure because you have not given me the words for a procedural proposal, despite seeing me, at the moment you should have given it to me. This testifies to your will and to your self-confidence when it comes to the rights of Members that we have in this National Assembly. It is true that you are the first of the same, and it is true that you belong to a coalition that is uncomfortable to talk about certain things, but this does not dissuade you from giving each of us a word when the rules of procedure allow it. I myself have proposed to convene this meeting, and I myself have joined a group of those who could speak on behalf of the applicants. That is why, Mr President, I object to your decision that, I will also say, instead of me and other colleagues, you have appointed Mr Aurelio Yuri and Mr Anton Anderlich as those who speak on behalf of the applicants. The rules of procedure don't allow that. At the same time, at the time of this meeting, I have found that no one from the SNS Group of Members has notified the applicants, and they are also proposing for the meeting. If you wanted to introduce some kind of fair mechanism, then at least you forgot about them. That is why, Mr President, I call on you to increase the time available to proposers to 90 minutes in accordance with the practice so far and to allow those who wish to speak on behalf of the applicants. Last but not least, we are not all in the same position as the Minister and the Defence Committee will later appear to have an advantage over other Members because they know the documentation and we do not. It would be good for everyone to know this so that we can have a normal discussion, so you will not contribute to the resolution, not even a little, if you close the time, but will contribute more to the convening of the new meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Skull. You've abused the rules of procedure, too. Let me also mention the names that will be spoken on behalf of the applicants. You have named Mr Anderlich for the opening presentation yourself, I have received this name and Mr Aurelia Yuri has also been proposed by the Group of Members. For the final word on behalf of the proposers, during the debate and after the debate to be forwarded by the LDS Group, who will speak on behalf of the proposed members of the Group, it is still open, you can still name Mr Školč as well. I now have enough on all these peripetions and give the floor to the representatives of the proposers to further explain the proposal. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u8	Your Honor! This meeting of the National Assembly was called to answer the question raised repeatedly: Was the signature of the contract for the purchase of armoured 8x8 carried out in accordance with the documents adopted by either this National Assembly or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? Has the election process been transparent and, above all, how much business will the century, as many have called it, and some like to brag about it, become Slovenian taxpayers? It is undeniable that we do not have clear answers at this time, that the minister does not want to give them what we are buying and at what price and when we will get it. Initially, I must say that the relationship between civil society and security entities is one of the most sensitive, if not really the most sensitive, and of course one of the most important, and I am aware of it, so I am also actively involved in this. The defence system is designed in every society to meet the needs of civil society for security, that is, for all of us and also for those outside. It is a matter of judicial interdependence and it is therefore essential that the State ensure adequate conditions for the functioning of the defence system, and even more so that it establishes appropriate and effective mechanisms for the verification and control of the executive branch, especially the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces, when it comes to powers and when it comes to public money. Parliament as a whole, not just the opposition, is obliged to scrutinise the work in this area. Yesterday you were able to monitor the situation in America, where both Republicans and Democrats strongly opposed President Bush when he voluntarily wanted to do some things about Iraq. It is very questionable how the debate will end there. It's a position and opposition in the American Congress. Not to mention Austria, where a heated debate is taking place right now and an investigative commission has been introduced on the issue of spending public money in Austria, buying famous eurofighters. What does that look like to us? With the Minister's persistent denial of the right to look into the Defence Committee's purchase of armoured personnel, it was impossible to control it by concealing it as a business secret, and by doing so, I have my hands tied to it because of Patria, which is a kind of absurd and outrageous practice in democratic countries. Tell me one country where it is. The Minister did all he could to prevent, even the President of the National Assembly, from getting involved in this odd business when he asked him for explanations and instructions on how to proceed, apparently in order to help him prevent control of his election and the signed contract. He failed, it is good for Slovenian democracy, but insufficient control is still here. We have not been able to establish sufficient control and it is not established, so it is not possible to rule out doubts that it is a non-transparent purchase, even more, there is serious suspicion that the Minister is still hiding something and does not want to tell the public all the truths about buying. It is found that there are great differences between the documents that enabled the purchase, tender documentation and signed contract that for 63 then billions of Slovenian Tolars he did not buy 135 armored 8x8 for which he had the authority, but bought them which were awarded 110 and 25 without any equipment without explaining with what equipment, when and for how much money he would really equip them. Unequipped are useless. The Minister constantly underestimated the public, especially after he knew that the armoured men he had chosen would stand at more than 63 billion, or as much as he had the money he had approved for the purchase and he kept repeating the remarkable spells he had made on the Defence Committee several times on various televisions. 63 billion for 135 shells. Although the Chief of Staff at the same meeting of the Committee, where we discussed it in September, confirmed the existence of documents to the General Staff with his signature, which were apparently made by the General Staff on order for the purchase of these armoured personnel and provided for an increase of 63 billion to 92 billion. It's a huge difference. He denied that there were differences in the negotiations and price increases. This purchase obviously involves a lot of ambiguity and strange things. The number 150 appears already in the invitation to tender, which means that the minister will buy so many armoured men, even though he should sign them and buy only 135. That's according to the documents I've already quoted. Was it a lapsus, a deceiving? Of course, that's what this was all about. And more. If he was only fooling us on the board, it's no big deal because we're dealing with the same thing, the minister would say. But it's also about misleading potential suppliers who could just come forward. Five companies received invitations to tender in a confidential manner. Of course, the Ministry had the exclusive right to call, to whom it would like to buy, or to whom it considers to be such that it can be called. They've made two bids. However, Rotis was selected, which is the only one of the five intermediately invited, until then without a single sold vehicle of this kind, whether it was 8x8, 6x6 or anything else, did not sell, at least after we knew it, any. It is strange that the State or the Ministry of Defence, which has a very strong purchasing or logistics service, does not want to negotiate and conclude the business directly with the manufacturer, in this case with the Finnish company Patria. Who needs it, and why an intermediary? The middleman works for profit, as the director of this company makes public, which is logical and right, and I absolutely agree with that. During the negotiations, information will appear that there will be the creation of a new company, Patrie, Rotis and Gorenje, for the production of vehicles, all with the aim of presenting to the public the incredible benefits for the Slovenian economy, and in particular justifying precisely this choice. Nothing from this to this day. Of course, other countries negotiate directly. They bought the Poles, bought the Czechs, bought the Portuguese, the Belgians, and so on, similar vehicles 8x8. And when we believed that the Minister would keep his promise to stop deceiving Slovenian taxpayers and parliament, the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces lied when the discussion followed the signing of the contract at the presentations of the signed Treaty on the Defence Committee on 11.1.2007. Minister Erjavec, quote: "As I have already mentioned, a very favourable price has been reached, it is said that I have respected through this price what I said on this committee that vehicles with all configurations will not cost more than 63.6 billion" - also here 0.6 billion means nothing because it is obvious - "let me say that the price of these vehicles with all configuration is 61.9 billion and 258.5 million euros. As you yourself said, President, this contract was concluded on 19 December for the purchase of 135 armoured vehicles, totalling EUR 278 million, or 66.6 billion Slovenian tolars, formerly. The contract also contains..." Then the Chief of General Staff, quote: "The project fully covers the purchase of 135 vehicles. Of this, 110 vehicles are in the configuration of command vehicles and four types of infantry combat vehicles with superstructures, weapons systems, i.e. cannons, anti-lock systems, automatic bonbomets, heavy machine guns and mortars, while the remaining vehicles are in the basic configuration and constitute the basis for achieving the capability to perform connections, instructor support and logistics." No definition of what's going to happen to those twenty-five. So it's about buying 25 vehicles that will only be equipped once in the future. Now it's being argued that Nate's goals are changing. For Slovenia, they changed already in mid-2006, so very early in the negotiations, which means that these vehicles could have equipped them like the Poles or we would have bought them later. The Poles, by the way, the ones the general staff is talking about, engineering, engineering, engineering, etc., were equipped with the same program last year. It's pretty weird out here. Of course, they could not have equipped them because this would have cost significantly more at this stage. How much, no one knows. Not even Meta Malus or Denis Schmidt, as one of the members of the coalition at the Defence Committee's meeting asked a vivid question. "How do we know from the coalition if they don't know?" But if we hadn't bought them, maybe we wouldn't have satisfied suppliers or intermediaries. Whom did we want to please by buying unequipped ones? Whether it is the minister's responsibility to have a detailed explanation for each tolar or now the euro entrusted to him and the money spent. It is also clear now that the required deadlines for the calls for the initiation of the supply of armoured personnel do not hold up, as supplies are being delayed. On who's wish? The manufacturer or the intermediary can't respect deadlines? According to the invitation to tender, the first larger purchase of vehicles will be delayed for at least one year. Is this due to the fact that the selected tenderer will not be able to provide production in Slovenia? Although the supplier's obligation is to work in Slovenia, the contract appears to start production only, and you will not believe, exactly on 31.12.2008. Why not 1.1.2009? Because it would seem even stranger and far away. It's visual. The Minister has ensured that 320 people or workers will continue to work on the project throughout the duration of the project. The contract is valid, the project is running, not the spirit and not the hearing. Yesterday, by the way, the question for Director Rotis was also for Gorenje, how are these jobs? No one can answer because they're gone. So, here's another promise. Indirectly employed 1,206 workers. No list of companies to be included, although this should be an integral part of the contract. This list is not available, so there will be 1,206 workers. These are all the questions that will have to be answered. It's very interesting and illogical and scary the following. Also, since from the list of anti-ships with which the deal must be covered 100%, the President of the Interdepartmental Commission for Anti-Dominations, Mr Peter Stands, I quote: "I now, yes, even now, we have such that the supply programme must be an integral part of the contract, it is binding on the taxpayer." - end of quote. No attachments to the contract, because if the program is known, who, when, for how much and what. In this case, this Annex is obviously not annexed to this Treaty. At least I couldn't check it myself when I wanted to check it out at the Ministry. Dear Members and Members, this is not the case today, you can trust me to discuss which supplier is selected, but we must all work together to see whether all the selection procedures have been correct, in accordance with the acceptable and normative basis for selecting a public contract of a confidential nature, and whether this is really the best for Slovenian taxpayers. So far, I have had the feeling that state officials have defended the choice, defended the suppliers, but refused to answer the clear questions as to how the public interest is protected or whether the invitation to tender is properly implemented. We must not allow ourselves to receive clear answers to all the questions, taxpayers are entitled to learn why and how much the country spends their money. I believe we'll get these answers today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Aurelio Juri also has the floor on behalf of the applicants. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister, representatives of the Government and the Slovenian Armed Forces. We believe that the country is obliged to manage public money so that its spending will be as prudent, meaningful as possible, which will benefit people's real needs or improve the quality of their lives and ensure their most secure and friendly future. Nature warns us, the future will be cruel and increasingly dangerous, perhaps catastrophic by the end of the century, if you, man, do not invest in the mind, in the new, especially the atmosphere of more friendly energy, and significantly reduce the consumption of existing energy if you do not properly change the lifestyle of life if you continue to know as if in the climate, there is nothing going on in the environment or anything that would seriously endanger the existence of your present, and some future generations, if you do not properly equip yourself and make yourself capable of mitigating and walking with it as long as possible. 12 days ago, from Paris, the World Conference on Environmental Management informed the world that climate change can no longer be denied, that it is primarily human responsibility, that we are inescapable at the historic turning point and that the time has come for serious action. If it is to be believed in the UN Climate Change Report and if the US President Bush himself finally came forward, it means that there is no doubt. What is happening in the climate is worse and more serious than it was at first possible to understand. In doing so, British Minister Margaret Beckett was very direct: "It is not only one of the new environmental threats, but also a threat to world peace, prosperity, security and development." End of quote. I apologize for this introduction, but once again I wanted to explain our scepticism, the doubts of the Social Democrats, that by purchasing the famous 135 eight-wheel armors for more than EUR 263 million we are doing something smart, something reasonable and useful for our present and future. Let me immediately turn down an alibi in which, most often, the Minister of Defence and the President of the Government himself and all the coalition find themselves justifying this purchase, czech, has been planned in the previous term or under previous authority. Indeed, but the current one has replaced it to improve things and knowledge, which is not irrelevant, and awareness of the new challenges of time, which are increasingly dynamic in what they bring us, are or should have been different today, as they were three years ago when we made this investment, unfortunately, only with military eyes, were written in our planning documents. Today, especially in the light of the timetable for providing and training this extremely expensive investment becomes increasingly clear that it will not serve its purpose to not benefit from the expectations and needs of taxpayers and taxpayers in order to be one of the largest surplus or even missed investments with their money in Slovenia. Otherwise, you, colleagues and colleagues of government parties, took full responsibility at the moment you attached her and went after her application. We have called you to consider a new smarter and more timely policy in the area of defence, protection and rescue. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, But when you have already decided to support the government that with the project a infantry, combat vehicle, 8x8 bike with the formation of a motorized battalion continues and implements it over the next 5 to 6 years, and you have granted it 63 billion tolars for this business, not one more, you should at least pull it by the sleeve and remind it on the day of the guarantee. Of course, we are talking about covering the defence minister's assurances that the notable amount will not be exceeded, given even after the media with professional reasons doubted that it would be possible to equip 135 such vehicles in such a way that they would be completely in line with their objectives, that is to say that they would ensure the safety of the crew, the connectivity in the system of alliances and the appropriate fighting power within the sum recorded and approved. And after having been well aware of the working documents of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the Minister, as already mentioned by his colleague Anderlič, who anticipated a substantial higher price. I will quote myself on the Defence Committee on September 7th when I asked the Minister this question. And it is an important question as to how important the answer is: "Is there a complete offer within the price recorded for purchase, purchase, manufacture of armoured equipment, 64 billion - I have saved myself for one billion - a complete offer? I am talking about the provision of 135 armoured weapons and equipment within this price. Is it possible, as some suggest, that there is only the price of a naked vehicle that will have to be upgraded and then speculation about a higher price from this title?" End of quote. I believe that this question was extremely precise and followed by an equally precise answer from the ministers. "Let me say that the intended purchase of light armor is 8x8 with all the equipment necessary to train battalion groups." The media said that this sum would have to be added to the cost of equipping reconnaissance, logistics, engineering, vesicular and sanitary armourers, so that the final figure would exceed 90 billion. If I recall, 93 billion tolars. But the minister firmly rejected these hints, as malicious and baseless, with a famous sentence. I'm already quoting the Minister of Defense here, in public, he makes it clear: "135 armoured men, 63 billion with all the configuration." By then explaining what we know or present to the public today, and by providing that the business of the approved sum was foreseen only by 110 armoured men in full competence and 25 in a bare version, because we are only going to find out what they are going to do and upgrade them properly, we may be doing something other than an extraordinary meeting today, or even then we will be charging the government to cancel the deal, unworthy of the known and unknown money. You yourself have admitted to me two days ago that you have understood the Minister's explanations, as we have initiated today's meeting. The government tells us it's all O with a contract and a deal. K., because it provides important capacity for the implementation of the planned development of the Slovenian army and is a great opportunity for the Slovenian economy, because it does not go beyond the planned budget documents of the planned funds, nor does the law on the implementation of the basic development programmes of the Slovenian Armed Forces 2008-2015 set limits, since the purchase of all vehicles, including 25, which will be upgraded for the purposes envisaged by the objectives of the Alliance's forces adopted in 2006, represents an appropriate solution and does not mean a misappropriation of the public, as it will be possible, explains the Government, to upgrade these vehicles, in a planned and timely manner, for the final purpose. Thus, the additional cost of reprocessing or replacing these vehicles with equipment, as some defence purchases remind us, has already taken place. We do not argue to the Social Democrats that the transaction would exceed the funds set out in the defence budget, but exceeds the item in the medium-term defence programme 2005-2010, as well as in the updated 2007-2012, which provides for exactly 135 armoured combat, command, logistics, engineering and reconnaissance personnel with different configurations and weapons for 63 billion dollars, and above all the assurances made by the Minister that he will not go through this sum. In any way, by drawing and moving money from various items to show that the deal was successful, the fact is that the Government has endured the acquisition of 110 armoured personnel trained to carry out the tasks immediately, and 25 more of them will still have to be trained for 66.6 billion dollars or 278 million euros, which means 15 million more than was planned, and it will have to be cut deep into the pockets of taxpayers and taxpayers in a few years to be those 25 full operatives. And even today, the government won't say, at least in terms of how much it's gonna cost. Last but not least, she says that they will be upgraded for the purposes envisaged by the NATO Force objectives adopted in 2006. And if we have known the goals for a year now, we should also know how and how these vehicles will equip them and how much this cost would be done today. In government documents, we are following a terrifying figure, €438 million or €104 billion, but the minister remains silent. The UN report, which I mentioned earlier, on climate change, involving 2,500 scientists from more than 100 countries, takes it extremely seriously, among other things, says that the atmosphere by 2100, not so far into the distant future, will be heated by at least 2 degrees, can also 6 degrees, and that sea level may increase by at least 20 centimeters, will increase by 60 centimeters, droughts will increase, and the melting of glaciers will cause reptiles and floods, even if the weather conditions are ever more extreme and excrete and will cause more casualties than all wars and terrorism combined. And how do we prepare for this in Slovenia? By purchasing armoured equipment that, when in full formation, will probably be obsolete and useful only if we upgrade them and equip them for extinguishment and evacuation from flooded areas. In short, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government, there are many, in our view, other underserved development priorities of our society and many threats to our security and existence, at least on the basis of war and terrorism, to support the change in the previous mandate of the Ministry of Defence planning documents, so as to adapt the expenditure from the defence budget lines to a new understanding of what lies ahead in the coming years and decades. The equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces for the most secure participation in international peace missions is, but we believe that the business we are discussing today goes beyond it to the extent it is concluded. We believe that in the light of the assurances given to the Alliance we could also choose better solutions. If I paraphrase one of the greatest statesmen of the previous century, French President Charles De Gaulle, who said: "Let us not support an army as we know it, but as we need it," we could say today the same for the entire system of defence, protection and rescue. Knowing what lies ahead today, at best, but also at worst, at the end of the century, of changes in the environment and in particular the climate. Therefore, once again our call to the Government, which also contains a proposal for conclusions, to reconsider all of this and in particular whether 278 million euros and so many unknown x million, perhaps 660, will be well loaded in the coming years. With the call we are serious, the hope that we will be heard, but despite our eternal optimism it is not, at least I thank you for your obedience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u11	Thank you. The draft Decisions were addressed by the Defence Committee, which prepared the amended proposal for conclusions. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Anton Anderlich, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u12	Your Honor! Although I wanted someone else to present this position on the committee, given that I was the first to be signed for the request for an extraordinary meeting, everyone, including from the positions, trusted me that I would probably do it correctly, as all the other things probably do, but sometimes they do. The Committee was given the task of Article 42 of the Rules of Procedure to hold a debate and prepare a report on its position on the proposed decisions. Following the introduction of both Mr Juri and me and the additional explanations by the Minister of Defence, a controversial debate was developed, in which we participated in a debate between the Members and the Member, who replaced one of the Members. The Minister and representatives of the Slovenian Armed Forces turned silent and did not want to answer questions that were very clear and explicitly asked, as far as we are concerned. In the end, the conclusions were rejected, all three of which were proposed, number 5:3, which means that those who were on the government's side were rejected, those who were on the opposition's side, we voted in favour. So it's 5:3. Then there were proposals for conclusions signed by the leaders of the coalition groups: Mr Tanko, Mr Presečnik, Mr Jožef Horvat and Mr Mag. Gnyardsich. We have tried to make some amendments, however, so that the conclusions would be at least about one that would follow a general request to discuss the transparency of this deal here too and to finally adopt the relevant decisions. The conclusions were adopted by a reversed majority, i.e. 5 for, 3 against, in the same way as those previously rejected, only that they were others. That's all, but otherwise you have, I think it's written in writing very clearly what was going on. A magnetogram exists in Lotus Notees.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u13	Thank you. With regard to the report of the home working body, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that qualified applicants can submit amendments to the supplementary proposal for conclusions by the end of the general debate of Members and Members. I now give the floor to the representative of the Government to present the opinion. Mr. Karl Erjavec, Minister of Defense, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u14	Dear President, the House of Honor! I am very pleased that today's session has taken place, as this is another opportunity for a detailed presentation and explanation of buying medium-sized wheeled vehicles 8x8. I am pleased with these meetings because I know that there will be a lot of clarification to be made, because there is a lot of inaccuracies, a lot of misinterpretations, and it is therefore right that we are gathered here today. However, let me say that since the selection of the tenderer on the basis of a legitimate invitation to tender and a legitimate selection procedure, strong pressure has begun on the Ministry of Defence. Ambassador Aurelio Juri at all the meetings so far raises the issue of the need to purchase 8x8 armoured personnel and states that, as early as July 2004, under the previous reference to the National Assembly, he did not support the resolution on the long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces, where the legal basis for the purchase of 135 armoured personnel is given. The position of Member Aurelia Yuri is quite correct and I also understand his position because he was always consistent with the entry into the NATO Union and did not support the acquisition of these 135 armoured men for this reason. That is also what we have heard from his explanation today. It is therefore also committed to freezing the concluded contract or to substantially reducing the number of armoured personnel, despite the fact that it is a matter of fulfilling the obligation given by that State to NATO when we wanted to join this organisation. It is quite another initiative to convene an urgent meeting of the National Assembly by the President of the Defence Committee, Mr Anton Anderlič. Mr Anderlič began to refer to the Committee on Defence meetings on armoured persons after it was decided which company was chosen as the most favourable bidder for the manufacture of armoured personnel, under the impression that the choice was irregular and illegal. In this invitation to tender, the company Systemic Technics, whose owner is Viator Vector, whose director and important owner is a visible member of the LDS, purchased by the company Systematic Technology for the ridiculous price of one armoured person at the time the Government of the Republic of Slovenia ran the LDS. I am sure that if this invitation to tender had chosen a company called Systematic Technology, the owner of which is Viator Vector, the director and an important owner of this company, a member of the LDS, there would be no extraordinary meeting today. Nor would there be any unusual pressure exerted on the Ministry of Defence. I hope that there is no one who would believe that union demonstrations under the Ministry of Defence were just a case and that it is only a case that the leader of the union who organised these protests, which resembled some others, may have been yogurt, and at the same time the important shareholder of the company System Technology is deaf to the invitation that staff of the System Technology participate in the assembly of armoured personnel, as work is enough for everyone. Of course, this is not about the fact that Systemic Technicians also have work and social security, but it is obviously about other interests of managers in the Viator Vector. For all of this, I am pleased to have today's meeting of the National Assembly, so that I can explain in more detail the selection process. You are aware that charges and provisional orders have been brought against the selection procedure. Let me inform you that all provisional orders by the court have been rejected as unfounded and are now legally binding. However, with regard to the action for the selection of the most favourable tenderer, let me inform you that the court dismissed the action and also the claim for reimbursement of the costs of the proceedings is rejected. This means that all court decisions were in favour of the Ministry of Defence and that no irregularities and illegality were found in the selection process. The Central Armoured Vehicles 8x8 project is linked to the provision of the most important military capacity, which we committed to in 2004, your Government then committed itself and parliament in the previous reference. At the time of accession to full membership in NATO, the purchase of 135 armoured 8x8 was included in the resolution on the long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, adopted by the National Assembly in July 2004. What is the purpose of this project? The main purpose is to develop the Slovenian Armed Forces' motorised battalions in the long term as key fighting and military capabilities, which at the same time represent the integration of the Slovenian Armed Forces within the framework of the collective defence system implemented by the NATO Alliance. In 2004 it also produced a proposal for a medium-term defence programme 2005 and 2010 which was designated by Dr. Grizold, then Minister of Defence, in November 2004 as the basis for planning in 2005 and 2006. The basic data contained in the medium-term programme proposal relating to the objectives of the 2004 Alliance Force were also reported in the Annual Defence Planning Questionnaire. The mid-term defence programme was adopted in July 2005. It also provided for the purchase of 135 armoured 8x8 with different weapons configurations and listed as a planned value of 63 billion. In this medium-term defence programme 2005-2010, there is no talk of engineering, logistics, and I don't know what armored 8x8. And it's all about deceiving. It is true, however, that in the then medium-term programme, this is what 2005-2010 says was envisaged for all armoured vehicles, here I am thinking of the hamsters and vehicles 6x6, slightly more than 88.3 billion tolars. Following consideration of this programme by the Defence Committee of the National Assembly in September 2005, I have already informed the Committee that we have received a new proposal for the objectives of the 2006 Alliance Forces, which will need to be taken into account after harmonisation in the preparation of the new medium-term defence programme for the period 2007-2012. According to the NATO defence planning process, medium-term programmes are reviewed and updated every two years. Much of the objectives of the 2006 Alliance Force have not changed compared with those of the Allied Forces in 2004. However, some objectives related to the development of motorised battalions and the formation of battalion fighting groups of the Slovenian Armed Forces have changed. When did we actually start the 8x8 Armour Purchase Project? It was said that the decision had been made quickly. In the new mandate, we started to implement the 8x8 wheel-car purchase project as a priority in early 2005, as it depends on the establishment of our country's most important military capabilities. Postponing this project would be a delay in ensuring, within the framework of the Alliance, commitments undertaken, which are also fixed on time. The deadlines adopted in 2004 at the time of entry into the Alliance to achieve the most important capacity in the long term were extremely short and their implementation was therefore extremely difficult. Having entered into an alliance is an essential part of the credibility of each member, i.e. Slovenia. Is the contract really harmful? I'm saying no. I reject the motion for today's meeting that the contract concluded is harmful. I claim that the Treaty is extremely important for the development of the Slovenian army, for the credibility of our country within the framework of the NATO Union, but also represents a great benefit and opportunity for the Slovenian economy. This is demonstrated by the following facts. First. By buying 135 armored weapons 8x8 we have provided a key and priority weapon system and main equipment of the Slovenian Army. Second. We have provided the most important and long-term perspective weaponry system of the Slovenian Armed Forces, as the vehicles will be used for more than 20 years. Third. We have bought a modern and efficient medium armored vehicle, provided a high level of anti-ballistic and anti-mine protection, which is particularly important now that the Slovenian Army is involved in crisis missions where the protection and security of our soldiers is the most important and in the first place. We know what the debates were about the Hummers, that we don't need them, why they were getting them, and, luckily for Afghanistan, when he took this vehicle to the mine, our soldiers were still alive and there were no more serious injuries. We have successfully agreed that the contracting authority will ensure production in our country in 2008. In production, however, the Slovenian industry will participate with 30.1% of its share in terms of the value of the entire contract, which means over 1200 jobs. For the remaining 69.9% of the value of the contract, the contractor assumed responsibility and the obligation to purchase goods or services in the form of supplies in Slovenia worth EUR 161 million. The vehicles purchased are also equipped with emergency electronic and communication equipment. This avoided the major problems and problems faced by the Ministry and, in particular, the Slovenian Armed Forces when purchasing light armoured vehicles 6x6 which have only been retrofitted and equipped with these types of equipment and also with other systems and caused great delays in the operational use of these vehicles. Six. With demanding negotiations and with the appropriate structure of the vehicles purchased, 110 of which are upgraded with different weapons - and these are war vehicles such as 120 mm mines, top 30 mm, 40mm bombs, 12.7 mm machine guns and an anti-lock Spike system - and 25 vehicles with certain adjustments in the basic implementation. Let me put it clearly and loudly, if we could get more upgrades for these 25 vehicles, we would be in violation of the law, we would be in violation of the invitation to tender because, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The 2005-2010 purchase of these vehicles with such upgrades was not envisaged, but was only envisaged for 135 combat vehicles, but due to the change in the objectives of the association this adjustment was then modified. [[...]] If I may sum it up, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! By a contract concluded on 19 December 2006, we bought 135 armoured 8x8 worth EUR 278 million or 66.6 billion, including EUR 46.3 million or EUR 11.1 billion. That means that this money actually stays in the budget. The price of 135 vehicles with weapons configurations and vehicles to be upgraded is €258.5 million or €61.9 billion, and I therefore claim that I have fulfilled my promise, namely from the tender. Because, as I said, 25 vehicles with those upgrades should not have been purchased because they were not the subject of the invitation to tender and because they were not in SOPR 2005-2010. According to the above facts, today's panellists claim that, in the current project implementation process, I have deceived the National Assembly to the extent that it was possible to purchase, following a resolution on the overall long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the medium-term defence programme 2005-2010, only 135 armoured men with different configurations and weapons for exactly 63 billion. Both in the previous and the new medium-term defence programme 2007-2012, it would not be envisaged to purchase military and command, as well as logistics, engineering and reconnaissance armoured personnel with weapons, all in the total value of 63 tolars. Such a claim is completely incorrect and I actually feel that you do not know these two documents because they have been dealt with on the committee. It is true, however, that there was a debate of no more than 5 minutes at the time. However, I spoke on the proposal for new objectives of the Alliance's forces in 2006 on the Defence Committee of the National Assembly, as said in September 2005. With new confirmed targets. Until then, the Allied Force has been modified to allow the change of all elements of the battalion group from light to medium. On this basis, the Government has adopted a new medium-term defence programme 2007-2012, which fully replaces the medium-term defence programme 2005-2010. The new medium-term defence programme also takes into account the project of medium-sized armoured vehicles 8x8 and identifies the changes that have been implemented with the objectives of the 2006 Alliance Force. In this programme, a total of EUR 438 million is earmarked for all projects of all types of combat vehicles, and this amount is not only for armoured vehicles 8x8 as it wrongly wishes to be shown. Does the contractual value of the purchase exceed the permitted consumption? The total amount of the contract concluded shall not exceed the limits laid down in the 2008 budget of the current medium-term programme of the planned funds or the limits laid down in the Slovenian Armed Forces Basic Development Programmes Implementation Act 2008-2015. When do we need to set technical and technological requirements for these 25 vehicles? According to the contract, we need to forward the first specific requirements to the contractor at the end of 2009, mostly in 2010, i.e. after three years. This does not mean that the current contractor will also order the contractor of these upgrades. Appropriate studies are currently being distributed for these requirements and the precise evaluation of these requirements would therefore be substantially premature. Could we also purchase 25 vehicles with weapons purchased in the basic implementation with certain adjustments? The answer to this question is yes. The fact is that instead of deciding to buy 25 vehicles in the basic implementation with certain adjustments, we could ensure the purchase of all 135 vehicles with weapons, which would not make sense. In my opinion, this would be even harmful as the 25 vehicles mentioned should be processed, their destination changed and so on. Have we informed the Defence Committee about the structure and type of armored vehicles purchased? Of course, we've been briefed by the Defence Committee. In those decisions and vehicle structure, we informed the Defence Committee, together with the Chief of General Staff in January this year, when we presented to the Committee, on my initiative, a contract for the purchase of bicycles 8x8. The entire structure of all 135 vehicles purchased was explained in the closed part of the meeting. This can be confirmed by the other Members who attended this meeting. The representatives of the General Staff also presented in detail the equipment of individual units with vehicles purchased. The equipment of each unit was shown, and comparisons were also shown with similar units in the U.S. military. Of course, at the time, the president protested that he was not interested. Therefore, it is also not correct to argue that in the military they do not even know what they are going to do with these 25 vehicles and what they are going to do. Such claims are underestimating to experts in the Slovenian Army and other experts, as well as to the leadership of the Slovenian Army. However, the fact is that at this stage, the precise definition of the costs of the upgrade would be that the requirements have not yet been finalized, premature and inaccurate. Therefore, I also reject the repetition of the claim that last September we had already drawn up these requirements, and we did not recognise this when different media wrote about them. The Chief-General of Staff then made it clear that different work materials were being produced in the defence planning process in the General Staff, and in no case did there exist a validated document that could be used for the implementation of these projects. Why did the Poles and the Czechs buy scouting, logistics, engineering armored wheel vehicles 8x8, as stated, as well as communication vehicles, because they are also subject to the objectives of the Allied forces? This issue has been raised more and more recently by some who, despite continuing clarification, do not wish to accept the facts in force in the process of defence planning in the Alliance. The objectives of the force shall be set for each country individually. The comparison with Poland and the Czech Republic, cited by the initiators of today's meeting in the initiative, is totally inappropriate for Slovenia. They were both admitted to the alliance in the first round of enlargement. Critics from the types of applicants of today’s meeting often refer to comparisons of purchases of 8x8 armored arms, which was published in one of the media, with data being summarised after the professional magazine. Although we have said that Patria denies the credibility of this data, their credibility is sufficiently explained by the fact that there are no more than 20 vehicles in the total of 690 vehicles to be purchased by Poland; and that there are 10 vehicles missing from the Czech Republic. According to this information, Czechs are supposed to buy more than three times more expensive armor than Portuguese - every comment I think is superfluous. The last meeting of the Defence Committee on Tuesday also raised the question that the Government, in its reply to the public question on armoured personnel and in relation to today's meeting, stated as a new one that we will spend around €438 million for a combat vehicle of 8x8. Let me explain again. In the 2007-2012 medium-term defence programme, the main equipment, as applicable for all Allied countries, is the battle vehicle item and is all armoured vehicles, not only for 8x8, for Hummer, for 6x6, for 8x8. In the medium term programme so far, this agenda item covers the cost, as I said, of all these vehicles. Are there reasonable indications regarding electronic and communication equipment? They're not! Why didn't they? Inaccuracy is the claim made by today's panellists that only after signing the contract did I say that electronic and communication equipment is financed under the programme to provide this type of equipment. That, in an integral part of the single stage, the award of contracts of a confidential nature is also necessary electronic and communication equipment for combat operations, we have been informed by the Defence Committee since the presentation of the offer documentation and I am truly surprised that it is still stated that they have been informed of this since the signing of the contract. And also with regard to the process of selecting the most favourable bidder. We decided on this approach due to poor experience in the subsequent upgrade of light armoured vehicles 6x6, I mentioned this earlier. Some now claim that the supply documentation was too loose - this is not true again. It has been prepared to enable the tenderer, i.e. the State as the contracting authority, to have a privileged position and I hope that there is nothing wrong with it. However, the fact is that if we had acted differently, such a demanding and long-term project could probably not have been implemented in a successful and timely manner. The following observation refers to the delivery hands that are too long. In previous discussions on the purchase under consideration, the delivery deadlines of armoured persons were also disputed for some opposition Members. Under the contract concluded, the operator must start supplying vehicles with 2008 and the latter with 2013. The first test vehicle will be provided in the second half of 2007. The deadlines were set out more ambitiously in the offer documentation, with a view to getting as close to them as possible. The deadlines agreed by the Treaty are followed by the deadline in the new medium-term defence programme 2007-2012, which I believe you know. However, if you are looking at the previous medium-term defence programme 2005-2010, you will find that there were unrealistic deadlines, since they were concluded already in 2010, this means that the last 135 vehicles would have been delivered in 2010. If we were to conclude a contract for such supply dynamics, we would actually purchase armoured vehicles for garages, as supplies must also be followed by organisational, human and other design of the units to be used by the vehicles under consideration. That's not what I'm saying. If we want to follow the dynamics that was adopted in 2004, the 8x8 Armour Procurement Treaty should be concluded by the former Minister of Defence in 2004. In short, it is also a long-term project and it is not possible to ignore all its dimensions. This further confirms that the specific medium-term defence programme is primarily a guidance document and, therefore, I reject the evidence of long delivery deadlines. However, the honourable assembly, as a red thread of the requirement to convene today's extraordinary meeting, claims are made that I have consistently denied the right to look at the members of the Defence Committee's contractual documentation or that I have made it impossible to control the transparent use of public funds and to conceal data. Such an observation, of course, is totally unfounded and totally unjustifiable. Moreover, at my last board meeting, I am even told by the chairman of the committee that I did not show all the documentation. I hope it was a lapsus. With full responsibility, I say that we have shown all the documentation, we have allowed Members to have a look at the entire supply documentation, both in the tender and in the contractual documentation with all the annexes. We have answered all the questions and there is no document or information in which your view would be disabled. This is indeed the first such case in practice so far, and this has also been the reason why we have sought clarifications on how to ensure adequate data protection, which are defined as business secrecy. In doing so, I would like to stress once again that it is not a matter of access to classified information under the provisions of the Secret Data Act, to this data, that Members are clearly able to access it. A respected choir! The contract concluded for the purchase of 135 armoured persons also provides significant benefits for the domestic economy. It is agreed by a specific contract that the contractor will place the production of medium armoured wheeled vehicles 8x8 in Slovenia in 2008, in accordance with agreed supply dynamics. It is agreed that the production share of the Slovenian industry will be 30.1% of the contract value. As is known, Gorenje has a leading role to play in this, whose capacities and abilities, I hope, do not need to be particularly represented. The fact is that if we take into account the production in Slovenia and the share of the Slovenian industry in the product, there are over 1200 jobs. A respected choir! The correctness and consistency of all the procurement procedures under consideration are also discussed because I have already said that all the proceedings have been judged in our favour. Dear assembly, let me sum up: from the standpoint of military strategic and tactical requirements, we have decided on an arms system that is both after-security at the world summit and in terms of tactical and technical characteristics. The medium armored wheel vehicle 8x8 will be the main military capacity of the Slovenian Army. Honourable Members and Members, the contract concluded for the purchase of 135 armoured persons shall be concluded in accordance with the planning and development documents, in accordance with the law and in accordance with the budgetary bases. The concluded contract provides the key and most important armament system of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Let me say that with the conclusion of the contract, I have not violated my powers, nor any planning, budgetary or normative grounds or restrictions. I have not misled anyone in all the knowledge of the competent parliamentary and other authorities so far about the preparation, implementation and implementation of the project under consideration. I have also never, and with nothing, prevented parliamentary control over the implementation of this project. Together with the General Staff and with more than 100 experts from different professions and close inter-resort cooperation, we would also like to carry out the project under consideration in a planned, deliberate manner, to ensure that the development objectives of the Slovenian Armed Forces are implemented. A well-respected choir. In particular, I did not define myself until the draft conclusions prepared by the initiators of today's meeting of the National Assembly. I believe that they are unfounded, that they do not have a basis and thank you for your listening. But I will be very happy to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u15	Thank you, Minister. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u16	Mr. President of the National Assembly, thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, the Honourable Chief of General Staff with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we assess and we are convinced that it is right that this extraordinary meeting has been convened, at which we are considering this item on the agenda. In the opening, however, let me say that the parliamentary group of proposals for the conclusions of the 39 proposers to convene this extraordinary meeting will not support it. Then I will try to justify the reasons why we will not support these proposals. Second, a little history. I would like to hear, or I would like to hear, whether there was once a similar convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and then an assessment of the legality or illegality, deception or non-deception of either the then President of the Government or the Minister when he was purchased from TRP Falcon for the purposes of the transport of wounded. Thirdly, what I would like to say in this introduction and try to answer why we will not support individual decisions by 39 applicants - I think that the Minister, in his introduction or in his opening statement or reply to a notice of irregularities, has found that the National Assembly or members of the Committee have been able to control the transparency of the use of funds. I am sure that those colleagues and colleagues, if there was a colleague at the Ministry, had all the documentation at their disposal. Did they see everything they read, whether they wanted to see or read everything, but the question that they could ask themselves was. Second. I am also convinced, as well as from the material available to us, that we could - and if we were to go to the last meeting of the Defence Committee, when, in the closed part of the meeting, we were actually unable to get to know some documents or some data, because then the representative of the Slovenian Armed Forces said that it was a business secret and it was a provision of a contract and a request by suppliers that the particulars of this contract were actually a business secret. And if the applicants would have called for this view or control over the use of funds to be denied to the committee at that time, I would have agreed with the proposers. However, then the time went on, there was also a visit by members of the Defence Committee at the Ministry's headquarters, and then, at least so I understood the Chairman of the Committee after his statement on television after seeing that they were given everything at their disposal and that they could see it there. With regard to the second proposal for a proposal from the applicants when they say that the National Assembly notes that the Minister of Defence has clearly deceived the National Assembly and the public when he claimed that the Slovenian taxpayers of 135 armoured persons with all configurations would cost 63 million, I could say here only one piece when there was talk about all configurations, whether it was a lapsus or not, but from the documentation, which was as tender documentation, the contract concluded is in line with the tender and the tender documentation. However, I would warn or perhaps just find out, but given that we all have these papers, that the medium-term defence programme 2005-2010, which was adopted by the previous National Assembly on a proposal from the then Minister, envisaged the purchase of 135 armoured personnel and there is no "full configuration, with complete equipment and complete electronic equipment for command". It is true, however, that this National Assembly, including the Defence Committee in 2006, addressed the amended resolution by 2012, which guarantees - I will say because we considered this in billions of tolars - 88 billion for vehicles in full. And I think the minister, in this introduction to his presentation, was saying what all these battle vehicles mean, that they're not just armored 8x8, but some other. Third. Here, I will say, we look forward to the joint Slovenian People's Party of Parliament and, given the content of the contract, in view of all the security guards in this Treaty, we expect and I will say a familiar business and business activity - I mean, when this Treaty will be fulfilled, but if this is in 2014, given that all anti-competitions are to be carried out by 2014 - that this fact will actually detract from the proposal of the third decision of 39 signatories for today's meeting. From all the above, the Slovenian People's Party Group will not support these three proposals. It will support the proposals adopted at the meeting of the Defence Committee signed by all four coalition parties. From today's debate and responses, both the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff, on the basis of any additional questions, I expect more correct answers, which at this moment will, without looking into these treaties or in all this mountain, "pouring pure wine". A little joke, a little bit, when one of the colleagues mentioned two of the witches, I didn't have to be one of these witches today, but I'm sure two of the proponents, one of them was new to the hairdresser yesterday and one of them bought a new dress.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Have a nice hello to you all. I do not think that this meeting, which is convened today, is actually called because it is too late, and the things that are happening at the Ministry, but if we say that they are happening today and that it has stabbed the members of the three opposition parties that we have called this meeting, it is certainly not today's thing, but it is a matter that has been going on in terms of the Ministry of Defence's functioning for quite some time. In fact, you could have said it from the very beginning. The untransparent functioning of the Ministry of Defence is, in effect, a constant, and I think, if we have anything to say to the minister, the current minister, it is that he has not cleaned up those personnel that throw sand at him on the wheel of his operation. I think if I did that, I'd like to make a case of replacing 450 inadequate personnel at the Ministry, so that the matter would go on and on and on and on and on. With regard to these three conclusions, one wonders how it can now be noted that the last contract has not been concluded in accordance with the objectives of our defence doctrine, strategic-tactical bases and guidelines, but if we look at our poor ship, we see that the contract, when they bought, involved the acquisition of optoelectric resources in two sets, and we have only one ship. What happened to that other equipment? Who picked up the commission? If we take the artillery and compare the strategic tactical stuff: the 155-millimeter hoods, which are not self-propelled, but which are towed, are long since fashionable. For tactical, operational reasons, they are no longer used, since after three, maybe four shots, the position of this hawbica is determined and the hawbica is destroyed. We bought them, but we also bought equipment to calculate artillery fire for four battalions, while the Slovenian Army has one battalion. And no one asked a question. Not to talk about T55 tanks, their upgrades, a whole series of contracts, contracts, anexes to contracts, and I don't know what else, so these tanks ended up being museum exhibits because they were too heavy because the engines couldn't pull those heavy extra loads because of the so-called improvements. We must not forget the government plane, the famous Falcon, that was purchased from the TRPs, but there was no way in which we could buy this plane. Just as long as we ask ourselves about Pilatus's plane. The Pilatus are excellent aircraft, but if the Royal Air Force of Great Britain is equipped with a good enough Brazilian aircraft, which are about twice as cheap for the complete weapons configuration as Pilatus, I don't know why we had to buy Pilatus. We bought six of them first, or we bought a group of Pilatus. It was predicted that we would buy six reaction interceptors of one-seaters and two two-seaters. If we bought old seagulls from the Yugoslav army, it would also be much better for schooling or training on more capable and better aircraft. In addition, three of these Pilatus aircraft were purchased and very interesting, and no one asked. ROLE-2, which stands in so-called containers and has not been foreseen in any TRPs. Also, one wonders how they got out of TRP buses and passenger cars. It is true that they are used for the needs of the military, but buses and passenger vehicles were not listed there and TRPs provided for combat funds, so all other purchases are essentially questionable. Here we're wondering about the 8x8 wheels, but the whole problem is that the 6x6 wheels were useless. And in there we should look for all the mistakes and all the sins. After all, what is the property relationship with Vector Viator, because it is also one of those driving forces, why some have so much crashed and wanted the same company to make 8x8 wheels, these new so-called rags, when their predecessors did not fit. After all, the test tests were already carried out when, despite the fact that we had these wheels 6x6 a long time ago, the mandatory test was not carried out until 2005. And even when they tested these wheels, they changed all the springs, so to speak, all the "federes" have been replaced on these wheels to achieve better results, especially in the uneven terrain, when tilting left, right and so on. Then, in batteries, there were terrible problems because they gave one type of battery, and the chargers were for other types of accumulators. Already Latin accumulators, which were installed in 6x6 wheels, had chargers for classic leaded accumulators. And it took a couple of years for this thing to work out, and it hasn't settled yet. Then it is interesting that here MORS, the Ministry of Defence has done nothing, as if something had been arranged with someone to drive these things past, so that these matters would simply be overlooked and so on. Problems in 6x6 wheels are also at the driver's seat. When the driver raised his seat to look out, he was, according to his household, that "stiff" so badly made that he could have fallen down on one of the lower things during the ride and imagine that it would happen on one -- I won't say exercises -- but, say, in the war in Afghanistan. What would happen in this case? And it has to be said that the 10th Motorized Battalion itself has been repairing these "sticks" and replacing them, and only in recent times are they supposed to be so high-quality that the seat doesn't sink in. Also with the driver’s dome, which had not been made at all since the beginning, they added a dome that had essentially a problem because of the electric heating and the fact that there was no windshield growing - the cable was set up so that the driver was actually stuck and many times it happened that those connections were broken and when the lid was closed, especially when the rainy weather was on. Next, if we take this fire-fighting system. The fire-fighting system is essentially made of two parts at 6x6, one part for the fire-fighting engine and one part for the crew. The problem was with that part of the crew because it had optoelectronic sensors on the light inside it and that this system just turned itself on. Previously it was said that certain data at 8x8 were not transmitted because it was supposed to be confidentiality. But here, too, in these automatic fire-fighting systems, there has been a reference in previous times to the secret matter of the manufacturer, and there was no idea how they work, nor did they even get instructions on how things work. This resulted in automatic activation of these fire-fighting systems themselves. I will not say what financial damage has been done, even financial damage has been caused by this, but in spite of everything, it still doesn't really know how they work today. They've been replacing all these things together lately. However, there was no telling when these systems were triggered, how they were triggered, and in combat situations, that someone was on the battlefield with such an armor - thank you very much for it. Thank you very much. I don't even want to talk about spare parts. Only the last 6x6 segments have catalogues of spare parts classified, because the previous ones were so upgraded and not upgraded, additionally repaired that in fact there was not much of them and a spare part to replace a certain corrupt part in the basic version of this 6x6 armor was not actually "passal" in addition. Thus, the catalogue of spare parts, which is urgently needed for the operation of a combat asset, is simply not available. And the other thing is, in ordering these spare parts from two months to ten months - yes, but what about the soldiers waiting on the battlefield, what's going to happen while the front goes up and down six times and over them? I mean, strange things that no one's touched. If we move forward, including with regard to axle brake problems in tricycles, the problem is brake drums and overheating plates at the first axle. They didn't save it, and the Austrians didn't save it, and that's why they went back to integral braking of all three axes at once. But we can't be test rabbits here in Slovenia right now, so this same company is supposed to be producing 8x8. It's not working. If they can't make it there, they'll make it even harder. There's a problem with running chassis. They were simply repairing the steel plates up there. And "letters" because we're not in the first world war, and in the first world war, armored cars were so reinforced that they "swallowed" another steel plate across, and we're going to this in the 21st century. It just doesn't work! What's the worst? The worst part is that the rehabilitation of these vehicles was carried out in 2005 and 2006 by 6x6 bikes! Why isn't he here before? Who's to blame for not being rehabilitated before? We are talking about the problem of wheels 8x8 by not having them yet, we have not even seen them yet, except for the test vehicle, and according to experts this test vehicle in its category is far the best. Maybe I'm allowing the possibility that there are problems in the same staff at the Ministry that have already been causing problems in the 6x6 bikes and that have not yet been replaced by Minister Erjavec, I hope he will replace them. In the Slovenian National Party, we have been waiting for some time to replace those personnel that are doing problems to the Republic of Slovenia in all areas and at the Ministry of Defence, especially in this area, in the area of the acquisition of fighting assets, not only armoured combat assets, but in general. Maybe just one more thing that's problematic, which is very important. It's a machine gun connection to the dome at 6x6 wheels. The involvement was too difficult so that the manufacturer himself said, the machine gun manufacturer, the Belgians said that the firing range was substantially reduced and limited due to such impurity. In addition, according to homework, it is called "arms" in which machine guns are attached, so relaxed that shooting here is also questionable and a whole range of other things are problematic in these things. I think it's right that this session is here, it's right to talk about the problem, but once again, I say, a year too late, two years too late, five years too late. Because if we talked about such issues before, things would be settled. Perhaps this meeting will give the minister the opportunity to "screw" those people he should have had a long time ago, because there is a whole bunch of people at the Ministry of Defence who, by their own words, "screw eggs" and do damage. They'll be doing damage for a while, until they're gone, and for that, this meeting is right, good, and let's say it's at the right time. There will certainly be problems, and we will also discuss them on the Defence Committee of the Republic of Slovenia. Perhaps we can ask why 135 armored men. The question is questionable to some extent, only then can we ask ourselves what the alternative should be. As an alternative, I would have taken helicopter units and, of course, helicopter units to intercept up to 10 kilometers of altitude, what we no longer need, because we can only fear that Croatia will be "shitting" with that moment in Slovenia, something else. Let's put that one together, actually, with a weapon like that right now. Helicopter units are, of course, better than these armored units, but imagine if it were a suggestion to purchase 100 helicopters and helicopters instead of 135 armoured men, which are significantly more expensive. I'm for it, I'm an airplane, and I love airplanes crazy, but I like good planes. But good planes are expensive. That's how this thing always confronts one solution with another. But it is true that today's fighting strategy is based on 8x8 wheels. This has now been identified as the most optimal tool. The tanks are out of date. One mine tank destroys the caterpillar and it's over, even if it's not a whole tank - it's already a caterpillar. While in the case of wheels at four axles, if one axle does not work, the other axles may carry the combined transmission of the combat vehicle forward. In short, I think we will still have to ask the Minister of Defence a question, but I think there is a need to ask more questions here. Not only related to the current mandate, not only for the last two years, but to the issue, say, since 1994 ahead, even a little earlier, but mainly since 1994 and from there draw the line, correlation and search for problematic, mostly problematic persons. I think we'd find just the same people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u20	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister of Defence Karel Erjavec, Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces General Albin Gutman, Secretary of State for Defence Franci Žnidaršič and everyone else in the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia! In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that there was no need and absolutely no objective reason to convene today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Nevertheless, we believe that it is right that the purchase of armored 8x8 discusses the entire National Assembly, or all Members. We are confident that the debate of most Members and Members will show that the position of the most important political body in this country towards the purchase of armoured vehicles for the purposes of the Slovenian Army is not as negative and sceptical as it has been in the media in recent months when, due to the extraordinary interest of the Defence Committee, in particular President Anton Anderlic, everything in this business seems to suck, everything is wrong and there is a need for a general conviction. Proposals for a special meeting on the purchase of armoured vehicles 8x8 for the Slovenian Army on the reasons for the reference state a lot of incorrect claims and wrong conclusions, and it is interesting to refer even to the media in this regard. However, another important conclusion on the grounds of the convening of an extraordinary meeting is that, in the case of a public debate on the purchase of arms for the Slovenian Army, the proponents or the parliamentary opposition have been misleadingly presented even as an interested Slovenian public and not as politicians, who in one way or another can participate and have insight into the whole issue. For these reasons, however, it is also very obvious that there is a lack of knowledge or an unintended understanding of procurement procedures, documents and legal bases. When reading the explanation, it is difficult to get rid of the idea that the applicant purposely represented the whole project of purchasing military armoured vehicles for the missed project. Initially, I would like to point out that today we are discussing the implementation of the project for the purchase of 135 medium-sized armoured vehicles for which the decision has fallen under the previous mandate. The resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces was adopted in 2004 by the previous Parliament. And many who today object to this purchase have sat down and ruled in the previous Parliament. Personally, I think it is quite right that the previous Parliament has taken such a decision, as it has provided the political and legal basis for the necessary equipment for the military. However, the purpose of the current call by the National Assembly is to provide political and, if necessary, new legal support for this project. The role of Parliament in this issue is completely political and not professional, which can be seen recently from the number of statements and actions made by individual opposition members. For this reason, in the DeSUS Group, we reject and strongly oppose any tendency to define the National Assembly in any way as to military professional decisions regarding the purchase of armoured vehicles. We are convinced that this is exclusively the responsibility of experts in arms systems and not politicians. We are also convinced that there are sufficient weapons experts in the Ministry of Defence and in the military who are responsible for their business in the interests of the Slovenian Armed Forces and at the same time the Republic of Slovenia. As a political definition of military professional decisions, we understand, for example, the definition of which 8x8 armoured vendor was more favourable, the definition of the most appropriate weapons configurations, the equipment and purpose of armoured vehicles, the further definition of the time limits for the addition of military units with armoured vehicles and so on. The purchase of military technology and weapons is too serious and too demanding a matter for anyone to decide. Personally, I don't know the state or the army that would discuss their techniques and weapons in a market. In addition, Slovenia's planning of military capabilities is not left to itself, but we are strongly linked to planning under NATO's alliance. That is why we do not understand the initiators for the convening of an extraordinary meeting, which claim that the Ministry of Defence is misleading the Slovenian public with regard to the purchase of armoured vehicles. In this matter, the Ministry has informed the public sufficiently and extensively, of course, to the extent that it is able to make public the weapons of the Slovenian Armed Forces. All legislation allowing the purchase of armoured personnel is available to the public, and the Ministry has informed the public of the initial tendering process, the selection decision, the outcome of the negotiations and the signing of the contract. It is unrealistic, however, to expect the Ministry and the army to explain to the public the details of the purchase or even some military secrets. The National Assembly is also extremely well informed about the whole process of buying armored vehicles 8x8. As Vice-President and as a member of the Defence Committee, I can say with full responsibility that the Ministry of Defence has worked very well with the Committee in the case of 8x8 armoured personnel. A number of written explanations and information from the Ministry of Defence have been received by the Home Committee, and Minister Karl Erjavec has attended all the regular, extraordinary and urgent meetings of the Committee, many of which have been devoted to this particular topic. The Minister has even taken the initiative to debate the Committee several times, so it is completely unrealistic to state that the Ministry of Defence does not cooperate with the Committee, but at the same time to refer to meetings of the Committee, based on newspaper articles and various anonymous letters, with a view to maintaining some political tension. The arguments of the initiators for the convening of an extraordinary meeting on the impreciseness of the Ministry in public money transactions and the problem of disconcerting the price of armoured persons are also highly misleading. We agree, however, that Parliament has the full right and even the duty to require supervision of government spending of public funds. The Government, or the Ministry of Defence, is obliged to take into account the framework laid down in the legislation for the purchase of arms and other equipment for the Slovenian military. These are budgets and other laws adopted by Members and Members of Parliament. So we are the ones who give money for the needs of the military. In addition to the budgets, the Law on the provision of funds for the implementation of the basic development programmes of the defence forces of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted in 1994 until 2007 and the Law on the implementation of the basic development programmes of the Slovenian Armed Forces in 2008 until 2015. We confirmed that last October. Under this Act, contracts are concluded and commitments are made for the basic development programme of the Slovenian Armed Forces for the period until 2015. The Ministry of Defence cannot, therefore, decide on its own merits for the purchase of armoured personnel, as the opposition claims. As a result, reports of parliamentary fraud regarding the price of armoured persons are inappropriate. Today, we are talking about the price of life span armor, which can be even more than 30 years old, but we are discussing a contract that has been concluded on the basis of a call for tender. The Minister of Defence always ensures that he bought 135 armoured vehicles under the tender or offer of EUR 258.5 million or 61.9 billion of Slovenian tolars under the signed contract. In addition, a system to support management and command, or electronic and communication equipment worth 19.5 million euros and 4.7 billion Slovenian tolars. This needs to be deducted from the 20% added value tax that goes back to the state budget. The amount that we are talking about and which the Minister is talking about all the time is therefore exclusively linked to the invitation to tender. As far as I know, the Ministry of Defence has never claimed that the entire project will cost 63 billion Slovenian tolars. It is therefore only the amount referred to in the invitation to tender, on the basis of which the contract was also signed. The Treaty was thus legally signed and in accordance with the invitation to tender, and there is nothing in the whole process that would indicate any irregularities. Anyone who claims otherwise is clearly misleading the public or admits that he does not know the legislation and documents defining the acquisition of war vehicles, weapons, communications means and other equipment. We also have no reasoned reason not to believe the Minister's words that a number of bad experiences from previous arms purchases have been taken into account in the preparation of the tender and the contract in order to avoid errors from previous years that could only inspire the transaction. Incentives for the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the Ministry of Defence or the Minister read out another matter, namely the prevention of parliamentary control of the defence system. They report to the Minister that it is impossible for the Defence Committee to have a look at the documentation relating to the purchase of armoured vehicles. In the introduction, I have already said that the Minister has been working with the Maternal Committee throughout his term of office. When the first questions and uncertainties concerning the contract arose in the media and on the Committee, the Ministry at the meeting of the Committee and then at the closed part of the meeting of the Member took a thorough look at all the details of the purchase. The DeSUS Group feels absolutely sure that we are Members of Parliament who must first respect the domestic legislation that we are even adopting ourselves. It is therefore not disputed that the members of the Defence Committee have been informed of matters representing a certain degree of secrecy at the closed meeting. Whether we like it or not, Members, like all other citizens, are obliged to respect the legal provisions on business secrecy. The Ministry also allowed us to see the entire documentation of the purchase of armoured personnel. So, also what Patria called her business secret, which our legislation allows. It is necessary to make it clear that we Members have had our hands full in this, we have been able to look at all the documentation with the contract and get answers to all the questions raised. The claims that the Ministry has prevented us from parliamentary supervision and the view of the purchase documentation are completely contrary to the truth and constitute explicit political manipulation. Finally, I would like to state the position of the DeSUS Group of Members that the contract for the purchase of armoured vehicles is harmful. This claim seems even more unusual to us than any statement made by the opposition. We wonder who and for what purposes may claim that the contract is harmful if we all know that through its implementation we will provide the key priority weapon system and the main equipment of the Slovenian Army, and we will provide the Slovenian soldier with maximum security and protection. Furthermore, the Treaty provides us with 1,200 new jobs. With the implementation of the contract, we will provide the Slovenian economy with 100% of the supply, 30% by participating in the construction of the armoured car and 70% by selling our goods and services to Finland. Given the value of the contract, this is almost EUR 162 million. There are military and economic benefits for us. We can even argue that the contract concluded by the Ministry of Defence is one of the largest economic transactions in the Republic of Slovenia. In the DeSUS Group, we are therefore convinced that our task is to create conditions and an appropriate atmosphere for our companies to adopt and successfully meet such a major challenge for the Slovenian economy. The DeSUS therefore fully rejects the statements made by the applicants of the extraordinary meeting and will not support their desired conclusions. I would like to end by calling on the National Assembly to work together in discussions to avoid the politicisation of the issue of arming the Slovenian Armed Forces in order to achieve narrow and private political interests. I can conclude from everything that it is clear that the Minister of Defence, Mr Karl Erjavec, did not mislead the public, nor did today's conscripts of the urgent meeting of the National Assembly. Moreover, in our Group of Members, we believe that it has been an excellent purchase, that it was a good negotiator for our country, for our taxpayers, and in particular with this purchase it has gained sympathy and even greater support from the Slovenian Army with an offer of a hand that will ensure the security of the professional Slovenian Army, to which all Slovenians and Slovenes can be proud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Robert Hrovat will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Minister, Chief, House of Respect. In the introduction, I would like to say first that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, it seems unnecessary to convene these extraordinary meetings, as we note that it only serves to see the opposition as some kind of guardian of certain interests in the public eye, and we can ask ourselves, what and how many of these interests are in the spirit of the development of our country. In 2003, Slovenia and Slovenians decided mostly to join the NATO Federation, which is of great importance to us not in the military sense. Of course, we have also taken up obligations as is the case for all members of the NATO Union. If we refresh our memory of the 10-day war on Slovenia, we can remember how we wanted to be helped at that time, so the majority decision to join the NATO Union and the European Union was practically self-evident, despite the opposition of some political forces that are now interesting to call this extraordinary meeting. One of the biggest threats at this time is certainly crisis areas that escalate terrorism. That is why the NATO Union, of which we are also a member, has adopted a border protection strategy far from its home countries. Slovenia has decided to have an effective, well-equipped army that will respond to modern threats. The planned transformation of the Slovenian Army has been taking place gradually for years. An integral part of changing the organisation and structures of the Slovenian Armed Forces is also the development of transferable forces and the related reorganisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces armoured units, which took place gradually and started after 2000. With the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces, wheeled armoured vehicles have been developed to increase the mobility and mobility of units. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In recent times, around the purchase of armored 8x8 in political circles as well as in the public eye, there have been many speculations, untruths and deceptions, so it is right to remember once again the chronology of the events associated with the said purchase. At the meeting of the Defence Committee, the Minister of Defence said that for 61.9 billion dollars and 258.5 million euros, we would buy 135 vehicles with all the envisaged configurations defined in the tender documentation. The purchase of 135 medium-sized armoured combat vehicles was already planned in the Resolution on the General Long-term Programme for the Development and Equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which was adopted in 2004, in the time of the previous Government. Members of the Defence Committee have been convinced of the eligibility of the purchase, the tender documentation, the tenders received and the signed contract signed with Rotis. Rotis' offer was significantly more favourable than Systemic Technology's offer. Allow me to give you some details in this regard, especially to refresh the memory of the recallers of the extraordinary session. The evaluation of the results of the evaluation of the technical part of the tender took into account all the variants offered by both tenderers. The evaluation was carried out by the expert commission and the results of the technical part of the tenders showed that Rotis’ offer was much better and received more points than the System Technology. Let me continue to assess the maintenance requirements. The results of the maintenance evaluation show that the Rotis offer received a much larger number of points than the System Technology offer. The evaluation of the technical efficiency of tenders was also confirmed by the results of the tests presented in the test report. And with all the information mentioned above, we have also actually become acquainted with the members of the Defence Committee. Rotis's offer reached a higher rating, not a higher price, but a higher rating, as it offered 10 to 18% more favourable prices. The results of the assessment of commercial efficiency, including prices, delivery deadlines, references, guarantee conditions, show that Rotis’ offer again received a larger number of points than Systematic Technology’s offer. The signing of this contract ensured over 1200 new jobs, 30% involvement of domestic knowledge in the production of armoured personnel and 70% share of anti-supply supplies. From all the information I have highlighted, Members can conclude that the signature of the Patria Armour Purchase Treaty was more than justifiable. With regard to 25 vehicles with basic equipment subject to the dispute recently, it is noted that this is related to the requirements or objectives that have been changed at that time within the framework of the NATO Union. The Battalion War Group requires an appropriate means of support for its operation, and these vehicles will be composed of both battalion fighting groups, which we need to provide by 2012 and 2013. The upgrades of such vehicles must contain the latest information, communication and other equipment, and it is difficult to imagine that such equipment would already be defined in the contract and the delivery would only take place in 2013. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the decision of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence to purchase armoured personnel in such a form is entirely appropriate. By doing so, our army will receive all the military resources necessary to carry out all the tasks safely both at home and abroad. Finally, what is crucial in this whole story is that the Minister of Defence has made it possible to control itself, since Members of the Committee of the Defence Council have been informed of all the details of the image. I emphasize, everyone. Therefore, the Minister of Defence did not prevent the transparent use of public funds in the purchase of armoured 8x8 nor did he mislead the National Assembly and the public because the contract was concluded in accordance with the tendering conditions. Therefore, we cannot support the opposition in their demands, and I am sure that the Members and Members of the opposition parties who requested this meeting know all this very well, but they are obviously in the background of some of the interests which certainly are not in the spirit of the development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr Minister with fellow Members, Commissioner, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the military business that Slovenia has not yet had, it cannot and must not be a shadow of doubt. How much will this business cost us? This basic and simple question has remained unanswered after more than eight months of meetings, initiatives and questions. And more than that, we get the impression that more than the minister in the notes is trying to answer, he is more entangled in his previous statements, more controversy and ambiguity is opening up than he is closing. And when he's run out of arguments, like today, he turns the board around looking for clues to the conspiracy in the Slovenian political space, and he's selling his problems as problems to others. This Government and its Minister of Defence have done a great deal to prevent and make it difficult for Parliament to control the use of public and tax money in purchasing 8x8 shells with half a sentence, by evasiveness, deception, hiding places, and also by non-truths. Today, respected colleagues and colleagues, we can say that the Government did not respect the four basic principles of public finances management in this mega-order. First time. The principle of the economy that public finance management must ensure its economic use. Another time. The principle of transparency that a public finance manager must ensure transparency in the management and decision-making of its use. And the third time. The principle of public governance must be public. Finally, the principle of control that the legislative authority exercises and exercises control over public finances. The state is not just the Prime Minister of the Government and the Minister of Defence, and it is not just those two who know what is good for all other citizens. What is public in Croatia or Poland is clearly secret in Slovenia. However, in this National Assembly, we have listened to the President of the Government and the Minister and others, who have ensured to Members and Members that they are in all areas and in all business for the transparent functioning of the public authorities. As has already been said, in Slovenia we adopted a resolution on the overall long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which gave guidance on how to develop, equip, and support the Slovenian Armed Forces, without a vote, unanimously with the support of the coalition and the opposition. And this resolution also defines it. Number of 135 armors 8x8. In the medium term, this government has also identified the price of 135 armoured men in the current 63 billion tolars. And it's like these documents don't exist today. The purchase contract exceeds the amount defined by the documents of the National Assembly and the signature of Defence Minister Karl Erjavac is one of the most expensive signatures in the history of Slovenia, because I do not know how much will cost us. But, as it appears today, it's just a signature, his, the minister can't get rid of the impression that he's just supposed to make a decision about something other people in other circles have decided. Why do we support this extraordinary meeting in the LDS? First, it is important for us to answer and get answers to the questions we ask. That is, why did we sign the purchase of 150 armors if it's only 135? An excuse, if you sign a larger number, the price will be lower, is attracted to the hair, as those interested in this business can read Slovenian documents and know that the Slovenian state cannot buy more than 135 vehicles without changing documents. And why we actually bought 110 vehicles with all the configuration and 25 without. Are you telling me that this is an "fair" call in which you say buying 135 vehicles with all the necessary configuration also means that 25 vehicles do not have the necessary configuration. Such recognition with negation is somewhat strange, but in reality it is a single problem. Within 63 billion, 110 vehicles can be loaded and, of course, 25 of them must remain unequipped. A simple and simple story. If the minister said so, we could sit down and probably talk and see what we can do, change what we can do, complement and so on. It's a simple story. Why did the Ministry of Defence conclude a higher price if it shows today that they could achieve a lower price, given the comparative purchases of the same vehicle in other countries? Why did not the Ministry of Defence, as in some other business, deal directly with the provider? Why the middleman in this business? And when, if you will, Mr. Minister or anyone else, answer that question, I ask you to have at least so much dignity and respect for the National Assembly and not to answer that it is none of your business, that it is only on behalf of and on behalf of Patrie that you have nothing to do with it. We can't buy that answer in advance. When will it come, the next question, the first eight-wheeler from the Slovenian factory to stand on land that is today a meadow? Where did the promise to deliver the first vehicles go? By the way, yesterday on TV TV Slovenia 1 we watched a Czech film entitled Czech Dream, about the opening of a big store that never happened. This film should be turned today as an introduction to today's debate. For when the scenes, which we have set for us and you, will fall down, when there will be only more filth and great disappointment on the scene, then we will ask ourselves what we are doing and what we have done in this time. Czech dreams are a film, they are a film prank, a bitterly sweet film prank, and they are nothing compared to Slovenian dreams, for which Slovenian taxpayers still cannot say how long they will really stay. With what other illusions and performances do we mislead the Slovenian public, Koroski workers, Slovenian taxpayers? Is it true, therefore, that purchases via Rotis could only have justified that we have agreed to supply 25 unequipped vehicles whose price of equipment up, of course, is not determined. And why do some others buy the same armor, or the same vehicle, more cheaply? Above all, we want concrete evidence that this choice, which is likely to also result in forgiveness, unemployment, was justified in the already deprived Koro region. Given that the price of equipment upstream has not been proven, the Government cannot prove that this purchase is 10 to 18% cheaper and that it will have the real benefit of 1,200 Slovenian workers. I really agree with my colleagues who said the contract provides jobs for 1,200 workers. But it's just a contract. When I see the working libraries, the proper registration in [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And when it works, we'll tell you how many workers got the job. [[...]] Otherwise, there's evidence, for example, in today's work under Dr. Mencinger's pen, that it won't. Today, respected colleagues and colleagues, Slovenian Government - and for some time now of course - the Slovenian Government shows a double face. On the one hand, with the help of modified and slightly bent media mirrors, it also tries to show itself as a real, calm and real problem-solving government that would be even better if it did not throw pollen under its feet. It declares that there are problems it cannot solve, but these are problems that no previous government has been able to solve so far. And that this government forgets that this government has repeatedly presented itself as a government that will save exactly what the previous governments did not want or could save. On the other hand, we have another government. Behind formal procedures and appearances is another one, such as in the terms'shadow government', with various levers of power, with actors denying that they are, with decisions that are nowhere to be written, with diversified and informal networks based on political loyalty and reaching out to all seasons of the economy and public services. This government never responds to parliamentary questions and doesn't account for anyone. The first government organised a resounding, successful European event at the introduction of the euro. Slovenia has earned this event. And while this event was here, the other government has already organised a discreditation of the candidate for Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and is continuing to do so at the time of the new candidate. At the same time as it drops phantom documents on the day, which it also turns out are not what they represent, the government is actually trying to do everything to hide documents about the use of public money that cannot be accessible and dedicated in any parliamentary democracy. Perhaps, colleagues and colleagues, perhaps not, we will respond not only today, but also in the time to come, we can look for parallels and answers, including the Austrian case of buying Eurofighter military fighters. At first glance, the circumstances are remarkably similar. Similar imaginary actors in business, fictitious distortion of actual prices. That the price is not true is that you do not get exactly what you order or that you ordered something else that you said you would get for the price; suspicious circumstances of business and intermediaries. There is also a significant suspicion, which stems from the Austrian story and is also being investigated by a special parliamentary investigative commission, the suspicion of illegal financing by political parties. How far in Slovenia we will come in the story with armored personnel, this question is if we know and are able to answer Slovenia today. Nevertheless, taxpayers have the right to know what is being bought with their money and whether the money is being used wisely. As the opposition, we have the responsibility and the task of having the instruments we have in parliamentary democracy, even if they try to restrict us as they do today, to force the Government to answer these questions, so it is very simple, Mr Minister, simply, how much will it cost us? Once again, Minister, in this position, I just need to tell you that it is necessary to turn the horizons, that it is necessary to approach and move from one border to another. That it is impossible to ask this fundamental question as an issue of Anton Anderlich, Systemic techniques, Vector Viator, etc., that you seem to have prevented another dirty business by accepting another business that you claim to be. If you have proof of that, give them to us. With the same rigour and sharpness, we will attack them if necessary. Of course, at the parliamentary club, we will not support the decisions voted by the coalition majority, the Defence Committee. At the table you have received amendments to these conclusions, we will support them, and we hope that this debate will help us to know more about this business today than we knew yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Commissioner with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. For a while I was thinking about whether I would not be teaching, but in memory of the ruling coalition, especially the largest coalition party of the SDS, I was quoting your president, the president of the current government, who said in a similar debate years ago, "There are things going on in politics that we don't know many times if we know there's a little coincidence and random, then it's clear that we can also look for explanations in backstage games." - end of quote. I think that today's meeting is also, of course, intended primarily for a clearer explanation and to help, in particular, by the ruling nomenclature, that the Slovenian public will receive the pure wine poured. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, it is noted that the purchase of armoured personnel from the point of view of the burden on the public treasury of the decade of this Government, and therefore it is also necessary and urgent to speak about it more broadly, not only within the Government and the competent Parliamentary Committee for Defence. Finally, it is important to note that the Minister is only and exclusively the manager of the funds contributed by taxpayers. Therefore, buying is not only a matter of the ministry and the minister, but also a right for the public to be properly informed. However, the minister's task and duty is to ensure that this information is credible without any hiding places marked as confidential, strictly confidential and similar. Therefore, in the Socialist Group of Members, we believe that we have put the debate on the prudent or reckless purchase of armoured personnel at the very first moment, because it is a time when the Government is trying to convince citizens by reforming the austerity moves that it does not repeat the mistakes of previous governments itself, that it is not susceptible to harmful acts, and that it is trying to take advantage of all the opportunities and opportunities, in particular to ensure that citizens feel better and feel the position of taxpayers in all areas. In short, to show that it's on people's side, that it's not inhuman and that it's not on the side of institutions. However, the very response to the request for an extraordinary meeting by the Minister and the Coalition tells us everything that the Government of Janez Janša has difficulty understanding basic democratic principles, in particular the principles of responsibility of the Government and the Minister of Defence. The responsible and courageous Government without a bad conscience would convince the Minister of Defence to come to the National Assembly on his own account with a proposal for this hearing, which would not be difficult in relation to the voting majority, and to listen to criticism, questions and proposals and to offer the Slovenian public answers to any controversial questions, but not to praise this speaker today and to be glad that the opposition and not the position allowed him to do so. An irresponsible government and irresponsible minister with the courage of a bad conscience flees from the responsibility of pouring clean wine on taxpayers, how much and why they spend their money. In our view, arms procurement and supply control is precisely the point where the democratic state is seen and the control of the defence sector is regulated. While trust is a good thing, control is even better when we talk primarily about this defensive area. If this is not settled and we are dealing with such a case, it is possible that the arms market is left to individual private actors, which in the final stage leads to the formation of weaponry oligarchies. And Slovenia and its 15-year history are not immune to these matters, on the contrary, so there is a very basic issue. Why did the Government decide to include an intermediary in the implementation of this great deal if Patria, who also took over the documentation, was also directly invited to bid? Whether the Slovenian State and on its behalf the Government and the Defence Ministry are indeed not able to make purchases of armoured personnel themselves and therefore need expensive intermediaries. What is the main reason for this? If we already like to follow the countries of the European Union and NATO and their standards, then it is necessary to say at this point that in most countries of the European Union, countries themselves make defence purchases directly to manufacturers. This ensures greater transparency and, above all, lower prices. Moreover, special subcommittees and commissions that actively monitor the implementation of such purchases, especially large ones such as those in Slovenia, are being formed to avoid weapons profits, customerism and corruption. But we don't have the spirit or the ear to talk about it. Moreover, the players of this story with the minister in charge of the public are hiding from the public with some kind of strict PO markings, military secrecy, business secrecy and the like. It is also inappropriate to refer to NATO and its requirements in five, six or seven years, as to the equipment of our units and armored vehicles. This is a weak argument, such as that NATO changed its goal last year and that is why they left 25 armoured men without equipment. The Ministry was merely negotiating NATO that it could not achieve the stated objectives of the force, because the budget did not provide the money that the former Minister had or negotiated. Let me only refresh the Members and Members and also the Government's memory. Minister Bajuk also reduced the budget for the defence last year. And according to what we have said so far, what are we going to do? Why are we doing all this? And we need to get back to the beginning when I mentioned the weapons oligarchies. This is also the case. It is about personal, related, party and political-Cech ties that once worked with us, and they have returned to this scene today. At the time of the Minister of the current Prime Minister, Janez Janša, a member of the Ministry of Defence, at the Logistics Department, where the head of Dr Jože Zagozhen, a senior and respected SDS official, the current Director of Holding of Slovenian Power Plants and the President of the Supervisory Board of Gorenje, was a partner in the joint venture with Rotis and Patrio. The President of the Gorenje administration is related to the former SDS mayor at Muta, Ivan Draušbaher, who also comes from Gorenje. In the 1990s, Orbis established an arms company, which, together with Snow White, dealt with the arms trade. So in the end, we could say that in this particular case it is a matter of returning already written in weapons stories to us and in the near past. The difference is only in this, and this is an essential difference, that today this business is working legally, with the help of the state and not only on the basis of a private initiative. They have enough and much experience about the profits that are unforeseeably high in this business. So, once again, no purchase is only a matter of the minister and not a matter of the ministry, but the public has not only the right to information, but it is a necessity or a fundamental obligation of the Minister in the civil part of the defence system to provide the public with the answers it requires. In this case, the Minister behaves quite the opposite - changes statements, does not provide relevant information, does not answer the questions posed to him and so on. Therefore, all of this raises legitimate doubts about the fairness of this purchase. Otherwise, in the Group of Social Democrats, we have drawn attention to skepticism and doubt as long as the majority of governments have turned on the green light, so that this deal can be carried out within €63 billion or €263 million and nothing more. Because at the time, experts warned us that the thesis that we would now be buying equipment that we would not use until 2013 is absurd, if not crazy. In fact, it is impossible to predict the needs of the Slovenian Army for so many years in advance at a time of extraordinary intensity of changing the threat and emerging new dangers. Even all those doctrinal documents are prepared and written on average for two, three, four years ahead, of course in the countries of the European Union that have them, and not in those that have no defence concepts, which means that equipment and weapons must adapt. This, of course, raises another question: Does the Slovenian Army not have a clear vision of its own development or that it does not plan its own development on the basis of analysis of contemporary conflicts, but only a cap for others and relies on the analysis of NATO, which cannot be translated seriously and clearly into Slovenian space. If we had done so, the Slovenian Army would have carried out serious manoeuvres to test its own strategic and tactical solutions. In this way, it obviously only performs performances, but only smiles at any military analyst; it is necessary to exclude the first brigade that does the impossible with what it has at its disposal. Therefore, of course, the Minister’s argument would be more comprehensible and convincing when it answers why 25 vehicles do not yet have the full configuration. If I were to tell the facts - that we do not yet know what technology will be in five, six, seven years, and what will necessarily need to be installed on these armored persons in the future. For the armourers will never wait for the supplies to be equipped, when he remembers the new goals. They will arrive successfully and the shipment of the last 25 will only come in five, six years. And that's it. Therefore, today, of course, we cannot know how much the whole business will cost. We're going to spend this 63 billion, I suppose, and that's the question, for 110 armors with configuration, plus 25 armors with no configuration. So we're not talking about a business that costs 63 billion, or a business that's going to cost 63 billion plus x. And in the end, we can have Patrie, and we can have Valuke and we can have transport planes and maybe helicopters and more. The question is whether we will have enough professional Slovenian soldiers to manage these matters. According to the latest data, we can be quite concerned about the recruitment of the Slovenian Army. For the departures of the soldiers from the Slovenian army continue. But the arrivals are insignificant. The Slovenian army has reached a point where it is no longer able to provide an adequate flow of personnel of its kind. The data show that in almost all areas, personnel lists are planned. Above all, there is an alarming lack of officers and officers who are not made overnight. In short, if the story continues, the Slovenian Army will be in serious human resources problems. And here, of course, the question is in itself whether it is also a problem of internal reallocation of resources in the defence area, if we could - and obviously we should also invest more money in people and not in sheet and steel. So, Patrie yes, but not 135, but less and not for that money, so dear. And that rest of the resources should be devoted to the people who carry out this military profession, education, training and, last but not least, the modest existence we provide them with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. A warm welcome to the Minister, the Chief of General Staff, with fellow Members, Members and Members. At the beginning of the presentation of the opinion of the New Slovenia Group of the Christian People's Party, we are convinced in our Group that today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is not necessary in view of all the facts now known, although I must say that colleague Jelinčič has almost convinced me when he spoke about the past, but that this meeting is really necessary today. I must also say that in New Slovenia we also agree with all those who want all things to be clarified and clarified. It is right to remove any possible confusion or any doubt about the illegal use of public budgets. For we are sure, and here I believe that we all agree that this purchase of armor is indeed great, that I do not say a huge financial asset. Only for 15 good years do we have our own country. Security and state sovereignty have always been essential to the existence of a country, and the role and importance of those who provide security in a globalised world have changed greatly. The relationship between civil society and security actors is very important, since no part of modern society is independent, unable to survive on its own. The defence system, although very robust, depends on civil society, as it is finally designed to meet the needs of civil society. We Slovenians decided at the referendum to implement our security together with others, in the NATO Union. I am sure that we have made a wise decision because we are living at a time when the world is threatened with new, different dangers. And collective security is a great advantage in these circumstances. However, we need to know that with NATO membership, we are not only recipients of others, but we also have certain obligations. And by buying armor 8x8 we meet our own set goals and also our obligations to NATO. With the purchase of armoured personnel, we have had many and many discussions on the Defence Committee. I must say, however, that I myself have understood on one of these committees the Minister's statement that all 135 armoured men will be provided with all the equipment necessary to enable them to function normally. I guess I misunderstood the minister at the time because he was talking about the requested configurations. Members of the Defence Committee at the Ministry of Defence have looked at all the documentation concerning the purchase of these armoured personnel. From this point of view, especially in the contract concluded, there is no longer any doubt about what we have bought and how much it will cost us. The signed contract agreed to supply 135 medium armored wheels, 8x8 armoured vehicles, 110 of them with different types of weapons, and I will not list them again. It is also clear that we have purchased 25 armoured men without basic weapons, as they will be intended for reconnaissance, engineering and logistics support and liaison. We bought 25 vehicles in the base performance and these vehicles will need to be equipped with the necessary equipment for the purposes specified. But it is quite clear that this special equipment will also cost something and we will have to pay for it. In view of the fact that this purchase is really a huge asset, it is only right to take a full look at the purchase. In Nova Slovenija, we are confident that Slovenia will receive more with its work done than 135 armoured men, 25 of whom do not have a special upgrade. We must not forget the agreed or negotiated benefits for the Slovenian economy. The contract provides 1206 new jobs and supplies of EUR 161 million, which means that the supplier will have to purchase goods and services in the Slovenian space in this value. In doing so, it is very important that all of this is secured by bank guarantees. This business will have a favourable impact on the Slovenian economy. Slovenian companies are looking for opportunities in external markets, and this particular business also provides an exceptional opportunity to increase the competitiveness of the domestic economy and enables it to enter and access new markets and new long-term business connections. In the last issue of the press, the Slovenian Army has an interview with the director of the company Rotis. The title of the article is "The most difficult to ensure the involvement of Slovenian companies in business". In New Slovenia, we believe that the Slovenian economy will be able to take advantage of this opportunity. We are confident that this business will have long - term consequences. There is no longer a secret that we are intensively preparing in Šostanje all the necessary things so that Gorenje can soon begin the construction of an industrial facility consisting of armoured personnel, and not only those purchased by the Slovenian Army, we are confident that armored personnel will be manufactured here also for a number of other Member States of NATO or the future Member of NATO and even after 2013. Let me conclude with the wish of the New Slovenia Group, or Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, to want more resources to be allocated through the defence budget for research and development and other matters which will have more general benefits for all of Slovenia. However, the proposed conclusions are based on the conclusions proposed by the opposition, we do not agree and will not support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u29	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Before we go to the debate of Members and Members on the proposal for conclusions, I remind you that you have received the four amendments proposed by the LDS and SD Group of Members, but that there will be a general debate first on the draft conclusions in line with the timeline. Let me also mention that the proposer or representative of the proposer or representative of the proposer may be involved at any time in the debate and the Minister may be involved at any time in the debate. Let me correct only in the sense of correcting the magnetogram, that I misrepresented the time of the debate in the introduction, namely, the entire time available to the coalition is 145 minutes, Minister 60 and not 130, as I said, and the opposition 200 minutes. That's it. I apologize for the correction. The debate will run according to the schedule and here, including all the exchanges that have already been reported. I also want the chairman to give someone a substitute every time, so you can follow the schedule. First of all, he has the word Mr Aleš Gulič, who replaces Gezo Jubana. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u30	Dear Mr. President! Dear fellows and fellows! Minister and representatives of the Ministry! Of course, after these presentations, the matter has accumulated and all that can be reacted to is more than time permits, and more than allows for some normal sustainability of people. Look, here, in this bundle are all these medications that Mr. Minister has served us recently in relation to eight-wheelers. I won't go all the way, brother, because it would take too long. But first, I'd like to stick to what we're talking about today. We are talking about 267 million and a few more euros planned and, of course, 417 million euros envisaged if things are to be completed as they should be. These are huge numbers, representing, for example, 211 thousand average wages or 330 thousand average salaries, monthly wages, Slovenia or 2,300 single apartments in Ljubljana or 3,720 single apartments in Ljubljana. This is huge money, and it is clear that we want to have very clean accounts here, perfect. And not the way we were informed, the drop. If it's tight enough, release a drop of information, dilute it with fresh water and smiles. And then we go forward to the next stage, when he's trapped again on the lie, when he's trapped again on the fabrication, and then he drops again one drop of this medicine for people to get tired of these stories and say, "Yeah, this opposition is really liquid, and he's so kind and he's running there with soldiers like a bunny around, and what do they want him to do?" Minister Erjavec also says he will resign if he chooses to make a worse offer. And we're actually just waiting now because he chose a worse offer. He was actually going to make a deal with the offer itself. The tender says 150 vehicles by 2012, the first tranche is supposed to be 30 vehicles with cannons, 9 vehicles with bombs, 8 vehicles with two-wheel mortars, 3 command vehicles - nothing about these vehicles without speech configuration. That's 50 vehicles, 150 vehicles, so that's what's been described. Those who responded to the invitation to tender responded to 150 vehicles, but because they obviously knew there wouldn't be 150, they said, "if he's lying to us, why shouldn't we?" And they promised, of course, all sorts, good price, real configuration, right-hand delivery, other discounts and maybe more. They also promised reciprocity in supply, and also, I think very much of the jobs. Well, in the last statements of those who promised it, there is no more talk about it. So I'm actually worried that those jobs are already existing jobs that will not be lost. So we've come this far. There's nothing more to say about it. The call for proposals included four configurations, as I said before, with cannons, bombs, two-wheel mortars and command vehicles, and of course they should have everything else. Now we see that this is actually very small. Besides, 25 cars without everything else, or I don't know what it is, maybe there are some tires, I hope they're up there, but "felt," but we don't know. In fact, in other vehicles there is no longer, in fact, any means of communication and so on. The first vehicles, they say the first 30 with a cannon, 9 with a bomb, 8 with a two-wheel mortar and 3 with a command post, are expected by the end of this year. Mr Minister, I would very much like you to answer all these insights, allegations that you will correct me, and I will gladly accept any corrections, but you will also have to tell us why you informed us so by the drops. Where did you go during the board meeting to find out more? Whom you called, whether directly the Prime Minister of the Government or elsewhere, so Mr Gutman had something to say in the middle and we learned more there. The first sentence of the Latin high school exercise is "patria nostra ulchara est". I hope you didn't take this literally, and by this criterion, you chose Patricia as your vehicle. You've made things up for the public, you've made up a parliament, and I have to say that some people knew something about it before. On 17 June 2006, it is stated here that the Slovenian Democratic Party Council in Kranj found that when purchasing armoured persons, the selected offer now allows for at least equivalent development for the Slovenian economy and so on. One of them knew, and one of us didn't know in Parliament, where there is a place where we should know such things, not even later. Very slowly, we are back in your interesting invention of homeopathic information and you obviously want to keep it going. If that's the case, then it won't be the last session. As far as the right to speak in Parliament is concerned, however, we are very limited today, we cannot intervene those we know by the individual chapters of these conjectures, and it is obvious that instead of going to Parliament to talk to Parliament about these things, I don't know, to Rosko, to the Congress Market, as we used to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Aurelio Juri, did you report as a motioner? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u32	Thank you, President. I would briefly respond to the implementation of the Minister when he reminded us that our client was or that I, as an opponent in joining NATO, did the right thing because I also object to this purchase. I was talking about this purchase on behalf of the party. The party that has largely supported the entry into NATO, you know that, Mr Minister, this is our position, today does not support this purchase despite the fact that we have advocated entry into this alliance. Because we don't think it's smart to buy. Last but not least, Slovenia did not require such purchases, this is what Slovenia itself promised and the promises it made from this title, you know, the visa of another promise which was also given and which will not be realized, 2% of GDP for defence until 2008 due to other circumstances in the light of NATO's new objectives. In the light of the realization that we have restless times ahead of us, not because of wars and terrorism, but because of climate change, because of a number of other circumstances today, we have assured Nat that we will acquire 135 armoured men with full configuration have some relative meaning. But what bothers me the most is that even in your introduction, in the face of explicit demands all this time, you do not want to get to know the public about the final cost of this project, which started with the contract and which will end in 2012, you do not want to get to know the public. You know, everyone who goes into this business needs to know how much they're going to stand and how much the roof and interior equipment will cost; and when the house is delivered to the key, we'll be able to know how much this house cost us. This needs to be told to the public today. I know it is risky to predict what the cost of 2012 will be, but frameworkally, this is also proposed in our amendments to the Committee's adopted conclusions, at least in the framework of the "from-to" we should know today, because only on the basis of the final cost of the public treasury will the public assess whether the business is really a business of the century or is really something that we should not go into. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Well, I think it really came to a meeting to the greatest extent because there were different numbers in the public regarding the value of the purchase of these armoured personnel, so that the numbers we are meeting are the most frequently voted around €258 million, then €263 million, €278 million and so on. In short, this really raises a number of questions and it would be necessary to get really accurate information as soon as possible on what kind of purchase is actually going on here, or the value of the purchase. I would add so much to this that I am aware that this business will certainly come to pass and that this order will also have to be implemented. However, I would like this effect to have a real impact on the development of Slovenia, the economy, the rescue of unemployment. However, since the Ministry is also involved in the search for business partners or those companies involved in this production, it would expect the Ministry of Defence to also look for these solutions in areas where there is a great deal of experience in the metal and manufacturing industry, where unemployment is above average and where, last but not least, much has been achieved for Slovenia's independence. In short, these are some of the programmes or criteria that I think the ministry should take into account when looking for all those who are supposed to be involved in this programme. I believe that Kočevska is certainly one of those who will meet these conditions and is part of the Rotis programme; to what extent this will reflect, we will see through the course of events. I am also very concerned about the announcements in the newspaper, which mentions that it will be really difficult to ensure the involvement of Slovenian companies in this programme. In doing so, I would like to point out that, at the same time, in magazines, such as the New Railway, the Slovenian Railways magazine, you see how the Central Workshops should step into a demanding market and become, in fact, one of the leading railway maintenance companies at the track of 5th and 10th European Transport Corridor. Only a company, it says, is able to meet all competing parameters simultaneously, so that the buyer will like to return to them. Of course, any company that really wants to stay on the market is saying its offer is noble and improves. They will accelerate investment in new technology equipment that will help them maintain their competitiveness. I mention Slovenian Railways because it is a state-owned company, because it will be one of the largest companies to burden the state budget for a single operation and will never be successfully integrated into the open European market. Last but not least, this company has an extremely large capacity in the Central Workshops, both spatial and labour-intensive. Slovenian railways have about 2,000 workers too. And one of the important remedial programmes that can be implemented in this state company would also be the inclusion of this company in the Slovenian Armed Forces programme, in particular, in the manufacture of these armoured personnel, which mentions 1,200 jobs or even 2,200 jobs in the supply itself, and so on. In short, numbers and opportunities that very much coincide with the fact that state money would truly be refined in the best way possible. With this, I mean, we could also avoid all the perceptions that it's either a political deal or a family relationship or something like that. If we solve this problem in this way, as I have indicated, these findings are, of course, falling away, and the state budget will save very much and eventually we will have, I think, many, many fewer problems, both in the field of defence and transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. I'm sorry Mr. Gantar isn't here; I hope he's listening to me. That is, he raised the question why the mediator. Let me say that we have invited 8 companies from the European Union to the invitation to tender. Five bidders applied for the project and then they raised the offer of two companies, so to speak, Rotis and Systemic Technology. Why the middleman? Movak and Steier informed us that they will be in line with company policy [[have the same owner]] on the Slovenian market represented the company Systematic Technology. That means we've sent the Viator to Vector and received a notice that they'll be represented by System Technology. We also sent Patricia to Finland and they informed us, as Viator Vector informed us, that they were represented on the Slovenian market by Rotis d.o.o. However, let me say that General Dynamics has informed us in this regard that they will be companies, it is said, within the framework of Steier, who also owns the System Technology, that they will run with the Pandora and not the Krapan. So I don't even know how it happened then that they ran with the Krapan, given that it was said by the owner that he was going to run for the Pandur. Dr. Gantar also spoke about yesterday's film of the Czech Dream. Perhaps I could mention another film, the Slovenian dream, namely your president, Mr. Kacin, about the Pilatus. So you don't think that I'm making this up, it's a serious newspaper and it says, "...that in a few years' time, Pilatus will be upgraded by aircraft of military fighters, the upgrade has succeeded, they say in the military that it's something extraordinary, so to speak, a revolution in military school aviation, because pilots will be able to fly propeller planes with all the instruments of reactive. We can also hear that such an upgrade would be of great interest to large armies, such as the United States. Slovenia will sell them this patent, business will be big," promises are being made. Until today, there has been nothing. The Secretary of Defense was then Mr. Jelko Kacin, president of your party. So much for "Slovenian Dreams." With regard to unnecessary forgiveness in the System Technology, I say that this forgiveness is unnecessary, they are invited to work in this business, and managers do not want to hear it. But I'm sorry that these same managers made such a bad offer that she didn't make it in this business, that she was more expensive than Patrie and so on. I am also surprised, given that there has been much written in the media to deal with the Portuguese 240 armoured personnel, the Czech Republic 190 armoured personnel, otherwise the Pandur, I do not know where these transactions are now, in which System Technology is to be included. I think it's management's responsibility here. Mr Kumer spoke about the staffing of the Slovenian Army. True, there are problems, we expect a lot from the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. And it is not that the Slovenian Army is not capable of addressing boys and girls for the Slovenian Army, but it is a problem of low wages. Soldiers have 120 to 130,000 tolars if I say so in the old currency. These are very low wages. It's not about officials. It's about professional soldiers. And I am counting on Mr Kumer then to support this law so that when we put it in the House of State, it will not be on the opposite bank or position. With regard to Mr Koren of New Slovenia, the research funds, let me say that we have increased them three times. At first we had 2 billion for these purposes, now we have 6 billion. Mr. Gulic, it's a shame he's not here. I am happy to reply to you, regarding my resignation, that I made it clear at that time that I would resign if it proved to me that the offer of Systemic Technology was better, that is to say it was cheaper. Unfortunately, however, the offer showed that it is 10 to 18% more expensive. I don't know why. They were offering a vehicle that wasn't there. There's no vehicle. There's only one prototype. And also the data I have, Steyer has only produced two Pandur vehicles, one of which is a System Technology rag. Let me say that Patria already has 144 of these vehicles in regular production. Regarding economic benefits, the Systemic Technology has offered 272 jobs. Let me say that the contract we concluded with Rotis has five times as many jobs as 1206 jobs. Ambassador Yuri, Slovenia promised, you said, then did not demand armor. Of course, Slovenia promised this, if it wanted to come to NATO, it had to promise to fulfil its obligations to develop those capabilities that meant the involvement of the Slovenian Army in the NATO structure. It's not true I don't want to tell the public how much armor costs. I said, a contract of 66.6 billion, together with an electronic package, for the vehicles themselves, with all the configurations, is the price of 61.9 billion, in the context of the tender. With regard to the 2011 upgrades, however, it would be irresponsible to tell you at this point exactly how much this would cost. Let me say that in 1997 there was a contract for armored 6x6. Let me tell you, there are 26 more Annexes to this contract. So, the basic contract plus 26 annexes, and there's no halo running. Of course, at the time, the opposition was not the opposition, but it was a position. Let me say that I still can't tell you exactly how much all 6x6 vehicles are going to cost today. Some of these vehicles will be upgraded. So it would also be irresponsible for me to say at this point how much it costs. It is sad that the price of the basic contract and on the basis of all these annexes is approximately 30% higher. At the time he competed in this case Mowag is now Mowag, in fact cheaper than this prototype or this vehicle Valuk 6x6, which we developed in Slovenia. So much for once, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the applicants. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u38	At this point, I'm only going to answer one question about the rest later. When the minister talks about the fact that Patria has just said that Rotis will represent her in Slovenia, two things have to be read. Firstly, Mr Črnkovic's statements, which says, "As we have learned that the Ministry of Defence will buy heavier armoured vehicles, we have begun to write with the representatives of Patrie and have asked them to be their sales representative in Slovenia." And then he says this year, on January 29th, when there was a talk about why the state was buying through an intermediary, Mr Črnkovic's statement: "The point of the state is when it closes the deal directly and sometimes through the intermediary. We all work for profit, and we are not a charity." And also, "There's no talking about commissions so far. Because this is hard work, Rotis will surely earn it." In another statement, however, he said that they would cover the costs of jobs. Maybe there's something to it when you think about how someone might have wanted to be a supply broker for the Ministry of Defence without knowing what, when, if they don't have information very close to the source, either from the minister himself, or from the army or even higher in the government. Some of the links have already been said here today. However, it may be true that what we received two days ago is probably in a letter from all Members who wrote that there is a suspicion in the public of Minister Erjavac's connection with Rotis, because by citing that he is looking for companies that carry out anti-procurements, which, of course, should be in charge of the supplier's obligation and, in particular, of the Ministry of Economic and gentleman's position as President of the Commission, should be politically pressured by the same companies for the financial donations of the party that runs it. There should be even documents on this in these companies. But here it is, in fact, when you talk about these intermediaries so interestingly, Črnkovic asks for mediation, the state decides about this intermediary, although it might be able to talk directly with Patria. I understand this very clearly and specifically, who has decided to mediate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u40	I must respond immediately to this implementation of Mr Anderlich. See, we have a letter from Rotis dated 26.12.2005, which informs us: "Dearest, on 16.12.2005 we were informed by the Finnish company Patria, which we represent on the Slovenian market, that by letter dated 15.12.2005 you invited them to collect additional information concerning the invitation of a confidential nature. In your letter you state that you want to identify potential suppliers. As Agent and Commissioner, Patrie, we will continue to provide you with the required information. We attach to the letter evidence of authorisation or representation, [[See Statement]] . And that's it. I really don't understand who we're supposed to be talking to. We wanted to talk to Patria, and Patria replied that the official in the Slovenian space is the company Rotis. I don't know why you're making so many things out of this, because it's normal. Probably Mercedes has his own representative in Slovenia, and you probably know who he is. The same BMW has an agent in Slovenia, you know who he is. You're probably shopping right there. And we were tied to this business decision, Patrie.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u42	This correspondence started in 2004. So in 2004, when this government came to power, they started talking, they got that power. And here Mr Črnkovic says he asked Patrio to intervene, probably to object to the minister or to someone else to ensure it. And that's it, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u43	Mr. Stane Pike has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, Minister with fellow Members! I have been involved in the discussions of the Defence Committee through all of this, and I know this situation well. I thought at the very beginning that this session was unnecessary, at least until now I thought, but slowly I realize that there is nothing wrong with this meeting. We talked and we heard a lot of interesting things, from armored 6x6 to Falcon. And at the time, no one was raising the dust. Now the dust is rising. I think it's unjustified, because all the procedures were correct, the invitations, the choice. It is important to stress why this has ever occurred. I believe I'm going to repeat things, but it's no different, because we've heard everything and it's no different than repeating them, but repeating them again. Maybe some of it'll catch up. We entered NATO with 66% support. With a referendum, in the most democratic way. We can't argue with that. Those who oppose this decision also had to get rid of it. That's what most people have decided. NATO commits us to give 2% of the gross domestic product for weapons purposes. And if we have to give, we just have to buy airplanes or we're going to buy, like we suggested, helicopters, that's the government's decision, professional services. But in this case it was not the decision of our government, the current government or the current parliamentary call. In this case, it was a decision of the previous Parliament, which confirmed that these armoured persons were to be procured to take this money to the item from the budget. That's the point of all that it's been so set up before that it's going into this purchase. As I have already pointed out, all procedures, because I participated in the Defence Committee, many of you who have criticized have not cooperated throughout the process. I, for example, know this procedure very well and all the discussions on this committee. I think these armors were properly selected. I don't want to talk about these numbers. The total price is less than 63 billion. For some, it is disputed that one is not equipped and the other is finally to be procured. I think it's even right. Why? Because the equipment, even electronic, is very fast out of date. You know how long we've been changing phones, computers. And if it is equipment that is electronic, which is integrated and must also be compatible with NATO standards, after a few years it is normal to change. And buying this equipment today makes a lot of sense. That way, I will give all the professional services that have so proposed at the Ministry all the support. The second thing that is very important is that the economic aspect with anti-produced and also with the incorporation of Slovenian parts into this project is successful and good, guaranteed with all guarantees. Since it is secured by guarantees, we will only recover these guarantees if necessary and if they are not implemented. The third thing that matters most about this business is the safety of the soldier. We already have few soldiers, they're professional, and we have to take care of you, and it's normal to give them the best fighting means. And these fighting funds will also work beyond the borders of our country within the framework of various missions, because we have decided to help those who need help in such a way as to establish peace and order and help countries lead to democratic processes. Once again, I see nothing at stake in this business, and it is good for the Slovenian soldier, especially in terms of security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam has the word instead of mags. Boruta Saivica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The minister said that's what he did and walked out. I'm sorry he's not here right now, but obviously that's how we talk about these billions, about these millions, with this numbered exercise that we can monitor today. More than once, it has been said that it is a business of the century. I have to say it's right that we're talking about this today. Far from being an unnecessary meeting if it really is a business of the century. And apparently, given the numbers, millions and billions, it's going. It seems to me that it is not right at all to limit the word in Parliament, that I had to consider whether I could speak for three, four or five minutes, because that is the decision of the first of the same, our President, Mr Tuckati. Because I believe that it is necessary to speak a little more plastic about the work of the century and about these millions and billions, that people will really know, but that we will also be aware that this is a business of the century, I think we should present these numbers in some other way. One armoured man, one armoured man costs as much as that infamous invitation to tender for the operating tables, which we talked about for more than three months and pushed him here and there, one armoured man was worth so much. The value we are talking about today, whether everything was okay with it, is as high as the price of all the medicines we pay from compulsory health insurance in Slovenia for the whole year for all 2 million Slovenians. The value of this job is as high as about 170,000 heart surgeries. Or if I take another case from the health field, a more up-to-date one, that's about 785 thousand maternal cancer vaccines, 785 thousand. Or maybe for those who have small children and this will be clearer, that is so much that the country could contribute for two and a half years for all children free kindergarten in Slovenia. In short, I'm talking about numbers that are huge. I can't agree with a predecessor who somehow wants to make the case in a way, because this has already been decided why we are discussing why we are dealing with it. We don't argue with this, but we argue with whether everything was okay with this business, or whether there are words that go from day to day, where the truth is, what the numbers are. Today, I heard that there were only a thousand jobs, 1,200 a month ago, 135 armoured men, and now there are 110 armoured men. Of course, what bothers me in the first place, Mr Minister, is these 25 armoured men, for whom I have received an answer today, that they have been ordered to achieve a lower price delivered or will be made there around 2012 and will, of course, be naked, empty and without those configurations, I will not list them, because these expressions are not close to me, in short, without upgrades waiting for them to be used at that time or maybe even to be taken to the waste of old iron. My assessment is that these 25 armored men with whom you had the most difficulty in interpreting it as collateral damage. This is where it didn't happen, it didn't work out how to push 135 armoured men into the price at which, of course, you informed the public all along that it would be fixed. And you haven't convinced me at all that an intermediary is necessary. That's it, that wasn't an answer for me. Countries can only give signals and speak directly. More than intermediaries, and in this business there will obviously be a lot of them, because this has not yet ended with Rotis. Now Gorenje will be another mediator. I also read that Gorenje and Rotis will establish another joint venture that will carry out these operations. Apparently, there'll be a lot of people here who'll get their revenge on this business. Of course, all of this will be paid by taxpayers. And that's what we're talking about today. It's not about whether or not it's already been concluded. But if you have done a really good job as you wish to present this to the Slovenian public. And today the names have already been mentioned. I think it's only right to mention them again, but otherwise, Mr Minister, you still owe us an answer about that anonymous letter - you haven't replied to your colleague about the fact that you're looking for some money from Gorenjska for your client, and I wonder if there's anything on it. If not, at least deny that we can hold you to your word later, as we always must. Today there were names, connections and ties: Mr Črnkovic, who is leading Rotis, who has always been a close associate in the arms business with Mr Janša, and Mr Zagozhen, who is very little in Gorenje, was also the boss of this Mr Črnkovic and so on and so on. These hunters reach here and there and I'm sure it'll be hard to make sure that everything here is clean, okay and fair. And of course, Mr Erjavec, I know that you are not crucial in this matter, that you are only a tool in the hands of many more important players, the "players" would say these young ones. And you're just a puppet who can do this very well, although you have a lot of problems. And of course, what I find most controversial is that the Council of the Slovenian Democratic Party, five days after the decision, was published in Finance, has already discussed all aspects of this purchase. I'm not surprised that you say in the first sentence today that today's meeting is completely unnecessary for you. I'm sure. You had all the information, you knew everything, you obviously knew all the details of this business in June and estimated that it was a great deal, that it was the best choice, the cheapest. If you did not have an insight, how could you say that this was the most expensive to bring the most jobs, that it was the most favourable offer and so on? Apparently, in Slovenia, the executive committees of political parties know more than they would have the right to know here the highest representatives of the people in Parliament. And these are the facts. Unfortunately, someone obviously got away. He wanted to be a little too proud of how you were informed. You're just burning up here on the notion that this is one of the weirdest things that throws the strangest lights on all of this and just confirms some of the assumptions that are behind it. You've mentioned it a number of times, perhaps just for closure, for fun, Mrs. Meto Malus. I also looked at Tuesday when you discussed this on the committee, where in its Tuesday announcement it said that "it is a day that has a kind of serious approach, as well as for the work and work in which we need to be focused on the essence and very precise." I note that you were very precise on this committee only in changing all the conclusions proposed by the opposition. But of course, you didn't get to the exact numbers. Mr Erjavec, you are laughing very pleasantly, but you are obviously also affected by Luna, because I have read that it also has an impact on this Mrs Malus, who does not know how much 25 armoured men will cost at the end, and this has been confirmed today. But Luna has a strong influence on communication because Mercury is going into retrograde. And this communication is a problem with texting. And you have - and this is accompanied by the entire Slovenian public - problems with arguments, with unequivocal answers, with truth, with correct numbers, in short, with communication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I'm sorry that the Member of Parliament is somehow insulting and mentioning the Moon and I don't know what. True, certain people also have problems when the moon is full or young. I don't think it's appropriate for you to use this in this temple of democracy, and you, in general, as an agent of the LDS, who are very sensitive to respect for human rights, to be different. So I don't think that's appropriate. About the demagogies you performed, how many hospitals, how many surgeries. Let me tell you, there will be 1,500 Slovenian boys and girls in these vehicles. I wonder how much one life is worth. You don't care about those 1,500 guys and the girls? I really don't understand you and you surprised me with this implementation. As for these readings, I don't know that I've been asking Jancho, and I don't know what, and what connections. Is it true that Viator Vector's CEO is a senior member of the LDS? That's right, isn't it? Tall, yes, lily. And the data shows that Viator Vector has served very well for the past 12 years at the expense of the defence system, more than 20 billion [[We can show you the papers.]] . Unusual! As for that conference that SDS had, it's hard to comment and anything I say. However, I can say that we had a press conference on June 12th, where we said who the successful bidder was, I think, almost two hours. And of course all the information has been public and known since then. So I don't know what you're talking about hiding something. Even the journalists were surprised because we gave so much information about the choice, because we told them why someone was chosen and why others were not chosen. All this information was also obtained by the committee, including in business secrecy. I was pleased when Mr Anderlich also said that he did not see any irregularities in the visa of the invitation to tender, the offer and the contracts concluded. In fact, the invitation to tender was sufficiently broad to be able to conclude the contract in this way. I don't know why he made a different statement two days later. You cannot escape this pressure exerted by Viator-Vector, who in any way wants this business, which he wants you to terminate, terminate, and to go into a new tender. I understand your interests, but I, as Minister of Defence, can responsibly claim that the invitation to tender has been made legally in accordance with the rules, the court has confirmed this, so there is not much room here for debate and doubt. Of course, members of the opposition may be in doubt all the time, but there are also judicial decisions confirming that the choice was lawful and in accordance with the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u49	Mr. Anderlich, on behalf of the motioner?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u50	I don't know if he's got short legs, but I know. And I can find that out with the Minister. Never, go look at all the magnetograms, I have not declared that I am satisfied with the invitation to tender, with terms and so on, but that I am satisfied with the fact that we have finally proved what can and should not be done by the committee. And we proved that only after we said that, and that's half a year after we made a request to look into the documentation, because this year there was a variety of information, and after the Minister says today that he did not interfere with the view, after he wrote to the President of the National Assembly, it is a letter to the President to check on what basis he could prevent our visit to the Ministry. That's amazing. Here are the papers. You can say a hundred times that anything could have been seen. That's not true. But as for the initial information, it's not true, Minister, that you've been informing. 12. everything was presented at your press conference, 13 published documents from this press conference, which could be heard, because at the time you insisted it was a business secret and until January 24th, you said on January 23 that you could not tell everything because Patria was pressuring you. And how did it happen on June 26th that we even got the data? That's it. The meeting was convened on 27th, at the request of a member of the Committee on 27 June, 15 days after you had already published this at the press conference, and 10 days after you had already explained this to the SDS party in the world. Obviously you or anyone else. But if there is someone else instead of you, from the Ministry, the Slovenian Armed Forces at a time when you have prevented Slovenian public sighting and information by referring to business secrecy, which is why you must not tell the public the information, then this is really scandalous.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u51	Mrs. Orzmova, you have a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I'll be very short. In this regard alone, I am once again warning and asking whether you will comment on an anonymous letter that we have received from all Members concerning your cash transactions in Gorenska. Another time. According to my opinion, the director of the System Technology is known as Mr Studenčnik, who was a member of the SDS, and who was also a candidate on their list. We're flying the LDS, Mr. Secretary. And you, too, were still part of the LDS on 29 May 2004, obviously now you think of us as something different and also as an approach statement that you say you know nothing about, we have and we keep on our client. You've already made some contradictory statements and not just this once. Of course, the statement that on 13 June all information, as you said, was once again, all information was public. Far from that, because the colleagues on the committee had been fighting with you before January, whether they could see the documents or not, or leave them. You talked about business secrets all the time, and you talked to Patrio about not allowing eyes to see or not allowing eyes to see the documentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u53	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u54	Mr. Anderlich says it was a business secret. The business secret is still, and I hope you will protect it, just as you signed it, so I ask for accuracy. With regard to when you first requested an insight into business secrets, however, your letter of 12 January 2007 is. That's what this year is called. And we're on January 24, 2007, that's what we've been able to do after the good 14 days or 12 days. So, as far as I'm concerned about trying to prevent a glimpse of business secrets, that's not true. However, I said that this was the first case in Slovenian practice when the Member requested an insight into the business secret protected by Slovenian legislation, this is called the Company Act. You know this rule very well. However, I have decided to allow this insight and you have been able to look at all the documentation concerning this call, in relation to the contract, so I do not know why you continue to state that it is impossible for you. You can look at everything, and you can look at it in the future, because I believe that this story will not end today at this emergency session, but you will continue to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u56	I would really like to give time to others to discuss, but for precise, precise arguments. On 27 June 2006, on request, not on a proposal from the Minister or anyone, a choice was presented. 27 June, 10 days after the political parties have already discussed this. 7.9. the urgent meeting was reconvened because it appeared in public a document signed by the Chief of Staff at the confirmation session, we have a magnetogram here as a working version, a basis for purchasing 8x8 armored personnel and it is supposed to cost 93 billion. That's why we requested an extraordinary meeting. We did it, we got some clarifications thinking that it was going in the right direction, because at that meeting the minister swore, you all saw a few times, he got upset. The minister speaks publicly, 63 billion for 135 armoured men with complete configuration. And we're just discussing, discussing, chatting. That was taken. I said if that's the way it is when the minister swears, it's the way it's gonna be. And then things developed. I find out again in the media that on December 19th, the contract will be signed, that it was on the STA, I will read it, then send a message to the committee at 11 a.m. that they will sign the contract and that the minister would like to present it. Until then, we thought it was a matter of some sort, despite all, of some matter which we will examine on the committee, that the Minister would provide assurances, and the presentation was also partially carried out at a closed meeting on 11 January. When we saw it, the joke was over. We found that what we believed in September of the month was not true. If the view couldn't be done because it was a business secret, then we said you didn't want to tell the board, you don't want to come here with the data, and now we want to go to the ministry and look at the paperwork. Then this is your famous letter, where you recommend to President Tsukati that he prevent us from looking into the files. Thank God, the lawyers, even publicly presented it, have identified that there is no matter which the Minister would have wanted to hide from the public at the request of the Finnish Patrie when it comes to taxpayers' money. And because I'm already saying, someone said, yes, it's right that we didn't buy the equipped 25 armors, so please, we're gonna have to equip them one day later, but we're gonna spend the money for this equipment that was planned today. How would you do at home in your budget if you had a plan to make a roof on the house to make a new house, that summer is a tropical drought and you believe that it will not rain until late autumn, you say, I have no money, I will spend it on better central heating, and I will make the roof when it shows that it will rain and then, of course, you will find that the money you had planned for this house has already been spent on improved central heating. Then what's next? Are you "puffing" or something? These are the things, the minister at work today.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u57	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Minister with fellow Members, Commissioner-General of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, esteemed colleague and colleague. Today it is very easy and perhaps even like to calculate the equivalent of values, contractual values, we sometimes said, at a time when I went to primary school, useful tasks that have been reported or would have been reported in another currency perhaps: "How many kindergartens can you build if you have 60 billion tolars available if the price of one kindergarten is 1 billion tolars?" If the answer was 60, then the rating was excellent 5. But I don't actually have any problems with today's session, but I would like to allow the Slovenian public to win here today's debate the power of arguments, those I'd rather see written than once, somewhere told, I know that sometimes we are denied something, but not to win the power of speech, the power of bravoros of Slovenian words. But to the darkness. The main theme of today's session is the signature of the 8x8 Armour Purchase Agreement. I want to say this, and I firmly believe that such a comprehensive and detailed way of getting to know the Committee of the National Defence Council as is taking place in the implementation of the project for the purchase of medium-sized wheeled vehicles 8x8 so far in the implementation of the basic development programmes has not been implemented since 1994. As a rule, the implementation of the programmes was reported only once a year. We citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have decided in full consciousness to join the NATO Union. This does not mean that we are unconditionally protected, but means that we must also protect and defend peace, peace at home and peace in the world. I am also sure that the decision to purchase armoured vehicles has been taken with the previous Government and the previous Parliament in full consciousness. I have no problem with that, and I respect that decision. Of course, we must not forget that we must ensure maximum security for the Slovenian soldier in his tasks of protecting peace. If this is about the contract, then it is important for me, the citizen of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian taxpayer, to realize the contract. From this city I guarantee and predict that the Members of New Slovenia will closely monitor the implementation of the treaty in detail in the part where we expect the benefits for citizens and citizens of Slovenia, I mean jobs, I mean the benefits of the Slovenian economy, counter-winning and so on. We expect the realisation to be 100%. I would not regret the cost of informing any Slovenian household or its members of the implementation of the individual phases of this contract. In this way, we would dispel all misinformation and tampering that will certainly not end with today. I assess that the proposals for the conclusions of the motions for today's meeting do not bring any added value to the equipment and security of the Slovenian Armed Forces, so I will reject them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Školč has the floor instead of Matjaž Švagan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have heard much about the fact that for a long time no business has been subject to such thorough control. I hope, like Mr Horvath, that this control will really be accurate, because we have not witnessed anything for a long time that we can say is a lumper of dimensions that we have not known since the early 1990s. We are here in this debate about armor 8x8 constantly changing attitudes, data, etc. Every time the minister and his associates come forward, you'd expect the question to be less, but things are the other way around. Every time they explain something, new questions arise. In fact, I think it gives me the impression that the minister, the soldiers and his associates, even the SDS party, must all defend that this business has received Rotis. This is the main point of all these performances, namely, we are trying to determine here whether this choice was legal or not - this minister is right because he says he went through the verification - but whether the contract and the deal that this contract brings is so that we can talk about transparency and legality. These are two different matters, a selection and a later contract, Mr Minister. Let's say that you have succeeded in choosing a procurement system that allows secrecy, which formally means or this order of confidential nature, which may mean that it is not necessary to change the rules to the extent that any decision is lawful. However, when we go to a review of the documentation of this order and subsequent contracts, of course they start, I will say that the same rules apply. I would like to talk about this, because the meeting should be closed for these purposes, so that we can actually clear up all things. And one of the things that's awkward about this meeting is that just because we're speaking in public, we're not really going to be able to clear up all the things where the minister should be keeping accounts for the National Assembly as well. Why do I have this impression that everyone, from minister to soldier, has to defend this business? First, because we have heard today that the invitation to tender was prepared so that, in fact, only two could run, but someone already knew in advance that they might be able to get a job. That's what my colleague Anderlich was talking about. Otherwise, it is not common for these arms businesses to have no one who could not equip an army. That's a rather unusual circumstance. The other thing he's saying is that in the background of this business, there's an octopus of old Jansze's gunmen knitting. We've heard some names, I won't go on with all those names, maybe they'll have to testify before some committee. The third thing that convinces me of this is to try to prevent access to this information in every way possible. That every little thing needs to take advantage of the terrible pressure to get what is self-evident. The next thing that convinces me of this is that business is not a choice, but a business is done in such a way that it has no defined end. We don't know how much it's going to cost or how long someone's going to have to draw money for their mediation roles. And last but not least, I am convinced that Mr Cukjat - who was, however, offended by this, sometimes marked as a SDS soldier - for the first time in the history of this Parliament is sharply preventing investors from having the opportunity to ask questions. First of all, there would be other elements. Mr. Secretary said today that all his promises would come out, but that those 25 vehicles should not be bought. What did he mean by that? Don't we need them? Did anyone tell him we had to buy them, no matter what we don't need them? Who bought them if he doesn't agree? Itd. That's what he said here today, but I believe he'll be able to do some acrobatics to explain it. What is at the heart of my discussion lies in the fact that the Minister says they have prepared, quote, "tempered documentation" for the invitation to tender allowing this deal. Look, Mr. Secretary, the Public Procurement Act allows for some exceptions. These exceptions are possible not to come to loose documentation, but mainly to avoid, say, in this case, finding out what the plans of the Slovenian Army are like, I'll say, the plans of the General Staff, etc. The documentation, even when it comes to this special regime, must be very precise and the legality of the procedures shall be verified in accordance with the documentation. The promises made by someone and the proposals that must be recorded in the documentation must be very accurate. If that is not the case, then of course everything is possible and today we are witnessing that everything is acceptable to the Minister. Since, see what is otherwise applicable to the prudent use of the Public Procurement Act and to the view that the procedure should also be guided in accordance with the documentation in question, this is particularly true when it comes to a special regime. What is considered to be in the content of the tender documentation must be all the conditions for competence and instructions on how to demonstrate the competence of the tenderer. Mr. Minister, can you tell us which company will be made up of these armored men? How is it possible that there was a deal with Rotis? Rotis did not say who his subcontractor would be, and that is what I will say in all the public tenders in Slovenia. How is that possible? Not to mention that Mr Stevania says it is also necessary to attach a list of counter-procurements, but it is certainly necessary to have an undertaking with relevant references on offer. We are witnessing today that they are looking for a location permit for a company that is not exactly known how Gorenje will be established, whether Rotis and Gorenje will establish it, or whether Patria will – no matter what. We or you should know, when buying it, who will be involved in this chain. A smaller road cannot be asphalted in Slovenia if it is not known if the one asking for a business is qualified to provide, I will say, machinery, finance and all that and documentation if necessary to do so. Here you are, I'll say, breaking a series of rules. I have no doubt that this selected company meets the mandatory conditions, but I am not sure that it meets all the others that others have to meet when competing in these public competitions. In particular, it must tell whether it has sufficient technical and human resources. If this were - and I hope that we will have the opportunity to look into this documentation - presented, then today we would not hide it from the public and not together guess who will do it, it would be clear who will do it. Minister, you can't tell who's doing this, but you gave the job to Rotis. You believe him or you believe him that he has subcontractors who are not even registered for this activity. That's scandalous! This means that you simply do not know this law governing tenders. You're hiding because the Public Procurement Act doesn't apply. Unfortunately, however, rules apply unless you say that nothing is valid, or if you may have written more. And subcontractors must also fulfil the conditions and must be documented in the same way as the tenderer is required. How are they going to document this if they haven't even started work yet if they're not set up if they're not there? Say it, Mr. Secretary! Since you have taken our time, I will not ask you everything, but I will also ask you what the Prime Minister, Mr Janša, has said that this tender was chosen because it ensures greater participation in Slovenian work. Which company will Mr. Janša give this business to if you can't tell? You can take a break and go make a phone call, but parliament needs to know that. Which company is he going to give this to?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u61	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Thank you for your questions, too, Member. I assure you, I'm not taking a break and I'm not going anywhere. But I'll explain what you asked me. First of all, I would like to say that I did not declare that the offer documentation would be too loose. No, I said so, be precise: "Some now claim that the offered documentation was too loose. That's not true again." Those are my words. I have a document. Now, about what you said about public procurement, the Public Procurement Act. It's true, as you said, but this is true for the Public Procurement Act. Here, however, it is an order of a confidential nature and these rules are not applicable and this is an exception. And let me say that this thing is arranged as follows: Rotis and Patria have assumed an obligation to organise production. It's not about hiding. I'm sure this production will be organized. Even today, you have seen in the media that Gorenje will be the organiser of the Slovenian economy in this project. And I believe Gorenje as a very successful company, one of the best, exportable, capable of doing it. But we followed the order of a confidential nature. And as I said, the judiciary has so far admitted that everything was in accordance with the rules. And now, until when. The contract or this Agreement shall state that it must by 31.12.2008 at the latest. And as you know, in June, a factory opens up in Chestnut. These statements are not substantiated. It is only your ignorance of this specific invitation to tender, because of course you have not been informed of the details.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u63	Replica, Mr. Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I know that you will always be dragged out by not having to act under the Public Procurement Act. The point is, I'm going to say, this confidentiality of orders isn't to avoid all the regulations that allow order to be prudent, but to prevent the outflow of some information that would be harmful to the defence system. You yourself said that in the contract you defined the time limits for handing over armoured persons differently than in the tendering documents. I hope I didn't misunderstand you here either. This constitutes a violation of the rules in this area. You said yourself that Viator Vector is not a good choice, and we're not even talking about it because it doesn't have a serial production of this wanted vehicle. And here you went to something else to believe that Rotis and Patria would start production. And there's no production here, Mr. Secretary, and you believed it. That's because Rotis is standing behind you and his arms dealers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u65	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u66	Dear Member! I can't believe it either. A system technique that only has one vehicle. Patricia's already got 140 cars like this. Who am I supposed to believe?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u67	Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u68	Your Honors are here! They say there are 750 thousand pieces of weapons in the world, which in other words means there is not just 1 in 11 of them. And from this, it's the basic motto of the arms trade, that's how to arm all the other eleven. Slovenia has always been an actor, whether Slovenian or not, within the framework of the previous Government and today's Government. At the same time, it's interesting to think, I think it's a very famous river or content that says, "Show me a hero and I'll show you a tragedy." Nevertheless, Minister, you have been trying to make a hero through Slovenian media for the past few days, not least of all a daily newspaper where you take pictures among soldiers in red sweatpants and prosthetics or in progress. But just from that address where there's a hero, there's also a tragedy, I sincerely hope you won't become a hero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u69	Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! It is totally unacceptable and contrary to the role of Parliament, contrary to the laws and contrary to the usual good practices in modern democratic countries, how the Minister of Defence avoided himself in order to allow the control of Parliament or the Defence Committee on the issue of the purchase of armoured persons. On 19 June, the Finances announced that the SDS Council had already decided at a meeting on 17 June, that it was a good decision to purchase armoured personnel at Patria and that it was a very good deal in short. On 27 June it was not until the urgent meeting of the Defence Committee that the Minister, at the specific request of the Committee, informed the Committee of these matters at all, of course, of his distinctive nature. Later, it appeared several times that the Minister had changed his claims and explanations, of course. When the Committee requested a direct examination of the contract and the rest of the documentation, the Minister recalled that he could not approve it because he was obliged by Patriye to protect the manufacturer’s business secrets. What? Did we hear that right? Because Patria wants to protect her business secrets and, on our part, she has been promised that the National Assembly or its Defence Committee can't have any insight into whether this business was going to cost our taxpayers, I don't know exactly now whether 66 former billions of dollars or more, or something less - it's now obviously also some kind of business secret - and so we wanted to see if the deal was concluded at the proper invitation, with the best bidder and with the appropriate conditions or cavaliers and for a really good price. In order to protect some business secrets of the supplier, parliamentary oversight of these issues was at first prevented, disabled and denied. Well, we later read in our newspapers that in Poland and Croatia, for example, no one referred to such business secrets. It's strange, isn't it, to meet different conditions for different countries? The Minister called on him to be committed to the protection of these business secrets under the Company Act. However, the Government is the executive authority and the highest authority of the state administration, and as such does not belong to economic operators, i.e. companies under the Company Act. Therefore, it cannot apply the Institute of Business Secrets to a document produced in the performance of its tasks. For the protection of its documents, another form of protection, such as the Law on the Protection of Secret Data, is available. And the Act on Economic Companies states in Article 40 that public authorities are obliged to protect such a business secret as a data of official secrecy. So Members have the right to see this data and, of course, to do as the Secret Data Act requires them to do. Well, on the Defence Committee two days ago, the Minister said that he later decided that he would no longer be bound by the Company Act and that Members should therefore have looked at the relevant documentation. I'm sorry, but what's too much, but it's too much! Well, once before, the minister had very casually removed the level of confidentiality from the document, where it suited him, because he believed that it would cause a blow to a political opponent, even though it caused damage to a third party, the Danish State - because you still remember, didn't you? Here, however, he worked hard to prevent and prevent the control of Parliament and Members, of course opposition Members, of the use of budgetary resources for defence and security. However, the coalition MPs obviously do not want such control, since everything that comes from the government or ministries in the National Assembly is usually uncritically "burning". Last year, at an appropriate consultation in the National Assembly under the auspices of or under the auspices of the Interparliamentary Union of the Centre for Democratic Control of Armed Forces, we also received in Slovenia a handbook for parliamentarians on how to exercise parliamentary control over the security sector. Apparently, there's a lot of this advice "sprayed" even though I shouldn't have, and apparently some of the government's parties didn't even open it. The real mockery of parliamentary democracy, however, is a letter from the Minister to the President of the National Assembly asking the Minister for guidance on how to proceed, because the Defence Committee requires an examination of the relevant documentation and the contracting authority does not allow information on parts of the data or at a closed meeting of the Committee because it assesses that it would have suffered significant harm if unauthorized persons carried out such proceedings. The Minister has therefore initially agreed that Members and members of the Defence Committee are unauthorized persons. Thus, this is the understanding of the Minister of Parliamentary Democracy and parliamentary control of defence, as I would say, that is. I am so now in some way confident that we will get our own manual, whose address will be What does parliamentary oversight of the security sector not exist? And that will describe our practice as Parliament, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia oversees the defence sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u71	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I'll start at the end. Today we were able to hear evidence of a client's weaponry. Previously, it has been said that the current Director of Systemic Engineering, Mr Student, is a member of the SDS and has not received a job. Now I ask you, what more proof can there be that the matter did not go through client matters if our man did not get the job? I'm asking you, how many of these things have you been able to do in your previous term, that you didn't give your job if it wasn't quality? This is said to have been purely of quality in this case. I don't think there's any better proof than you mentioned. Now I'm going to the debate. I will start with a debate on the Defence Committee in 1998, nine years ago. At that time, we were able to learn from the media that a shipment of Ukrainian ammunition had arrived in Slovenia for tanks and mortars, paid as new, and something else. But the ammunition was old, and that moment his hand ran out to make it new, someone painted it, and so it literally glued the steering or tail flaps. When we discussed this on the Defence Committee, one of the then government members said, "Well, that was really not right. It's old ammunition, the price is, like, new, maybe even dangerous, but good. What we would now lose words and speak for ourselves, let this be a lesson for the future, so that it cannot be done. Let's move on to the agenda." And of course it was. And you're pulling this analogy, this content from those days. You just didn't want to buy a better armor if we were in armor today, but the ones you predicted were bought and sold in connection with the sale of this company, Systemic techniques, where it was obviously only for shareholders of this company, not for workers. The workers were played, I know that, and I admit it was only for the owners of this company, the quality had no role. And when these arguments about quality, because the Minister obviously convinced you with the documentation that it was obviously so much better when you couldn't speak with quality anymore, you started talking about protecting your home brain. And then it was also somehow, I hope, that these were said to be Steyer's plans and this for an untested model, virtually not even the multimodels were, this was one test model, and that they were carried out all the tests on the ground and they showed, as they showed. And even though he was our CEO at that firm, he didn't get a job because it wasn't a client business, like you said, but it was quality. Now all you have left is that last weapon, which is very current last year, which is a tested recipe from the Bank of Slovenia's analytical sector, which is a financial hole, which, interestingly, started to show to you only after 2004, I don't know why. You simply cannot believe that you are no longer buying an old and dangerous pattern for more than the price of a new one. And you can't believe that you can talk about purchasing before buying and before extracting, as it used to be, but I will tell you only some things: these were hoodies, these were minoms with compensationers for desert sand, and then they had severe problems when they were testing in the karst terrain ammunition for tanks and mines that were overpainted, the deadline expired, for the price of the new one, maybe I could have included an upgrade of the tank, but that's another story that also had some positive effects. You just can't believe that you can go to the Ministry for Undelivered Equipment, which was sometimes not the case. You would like to demonstrate everything by the behaviour of Banka Slovenije analysts. I'm going to start with what's even the most up-to-date, harassment in the military, even though the investigations have shown that it's not that it's different, even internal investigations can carry out an external investigation if you want. About non-professionality in the choice of equipment: you have concerns about the tests that have been carried out on the ground, you have concerns about training, about staffing, but I would like to say the following about staffing. It's not from tomorrow, but it's a process that's been going on for quite some time and the prevailing situation in the military is due to a 10-, 12-year-old military staffing situation, so it's going to have to be taken in by someone else if something's wrong. Obviously, you cannot bear that Slovenia and the Slovenian Army have received the highest recognition in this period of time with the assigned responsibility of "peace Kipping" in the northwestern sector in Kosovo, where 600 soldiers have been deployed during this time, and under our command foreign soldiers will also be under our command, and therefore again catastrophic questions arise as to who will defend us when most of the troops and equipment in Kosovo. And right here is the answer. We need armoured men, because by entering NATO we have achieved that our task will also be to send our soldiers to the crisis areas that are close to us and to worry about establishing peace where, of course, we can make a substantial contribution to this, and this part of the Balkans certainly is, and, of course, we are protected under Article 5 of the Washington Treaty within the framework of collective security. Here I would say this, a lot of questions are about funds, but right now there's about 1.8% of GDP somewhere, and even if it goes up to 2%, even if you are 2, you're making up a lot of things like that. Most of these, however, were silent when we broadcast 5% to 7% in the previous country, for the South Army, which has devastated Kosovo, as well as for other countries of the former Yugoslavia, which are now independent countries, but now our army must also take care of the maintenance of peace in these areas, and specifically in Kosovo, and take care of the ethnically sustainable situation. Of course, it also needs equipment to deal with such situations, and these are definitely four-wheeled vehicles, eight-wheeled vehicles, armored vehicles, because with overpainted old weapons and ammunition and tow hoods, this would not work. On the other hand, if everything was as catastrophic as you are predicting, and as Banka Slovenije and its analysts say, which is also at the highest level in the National Assembly, they would not have a constant growth rate of 5% and stable public finances, non-catatrophic, and would not have met the conditions for the euro and would not have been given the opportunity to be held accountable in this part of Kosovo in this sector, where other soldiers are subordinated to our units. It's obvious that you don't have the right "munition" to shoot with it, shoot with a pitcher, and with your painted "munition", we'd like to show that it's a large caliber in your hands. It would have been time for you, as an opposition, to start acting more nationalally and to realize that we are not all together, but also you, no longer in the sandbox, but in your country, which, within the framework of the Alliance, is also responsible for maintaining peace at the borders of Europe. What this area represents for Europe has already proved to be there some 500 years ago, a few years later. The Slovenian army has proved to be very credible and successful in Bosnia and the mission in Kosovo is only an upgrade to those previous tasks that the Slovenian Army has performed there. The acquisition of quality equipment is certainly also in the function of providing security for Slovenia, and our contribution to the fact that we can also refer to Article 5 of collective security. The funds aren't small, that's all. But we used to give three or four times as much, and no one got upset. And that's for that army that was then making a mess in the Balkans, and now we have to fix the situation. However, these funds are the least we can do, especially if we take our path forward from 1990 to the other countries of the former Yugoslavia. I'd say there's a lot of talk today about some comparisons, how much this means, how many apartments, and I don't know what else. In this area, the former common country was, I don't know which statistics hold 100, 200 or 300 thousand dead. And if I were to follow you, I would ask you how many euros it is. So that's not to be assessed. So it's not going together and security can't be evaluated with tolars what we could get if we buy equipment with which we maintain security and we provide it, I don't know how many apartments we can build; or how many other medicines we can buy - we can't! Life cannot be compared with Euros and then tell how many apartments I can get if I buy equipment that provides security in a country that is also the basis of some economic progress. Ensuring the security of Slovenia and the reputation of Slovenia in the world certainly cannot be a part of the ownership of one company, no matter which customer the director belongs to or I do not know which one of these leaders in this company. Today's debate, and I also agree, seems to me to be a blurring of the facts and a distraction from the essential problems. I believe that the Ministry and the Ministry did not deceive, but for the first time fully transparently demonstrated the procedure for obtaining this equipment. I am interested in one programme under this TRP programme, which has lasted for more than ten years, which has been laid down in the basic contract without annexes. Before that, we could have heard the minister that program 6x6 already had 24, 26 Annexes. You heard right, 24 or 26 - please correct me - but over 20. But it's a problem if you could be one. That's the problem! But 24 or 26 is no problem! Let me get this straight. A better response to this than to the quality of this invitation than you yourself have stated that the company that is leading our member, you said, has not been given a job. What else can be said, then, that it was not a client’s weaponry, as you claimed, and that it was not a matter of assigning by customer ownership, but it was purely on the basis of quality. Thank you for this argument, because I didn't mean to talk about it, but you reminded me of that and I can assure you that there is really no better argument than you have given yourself. Why you brought it to us on a platter, I don't know that, but I'm grateful for it, and that's really the best evidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u73	Mr Aurelio Juri has the floor on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u74	I would like to respond to the implementation of my colleague Petan, who was also President of the Defence Committee in the previous term, and should listen a little more carefully to what we are saying. We Social Democrats have made it clear that we are not opposed to buying Patria in order to make it possible to do business with Systemic Technology. But it is true that if today we do not know how much the whole package will cost, from the first to the last vehicle, that all 135 will be fully operational, and if the numbers that appear can be real, we are asked what if, under such assumption and with such predictions, the second bidder could be in the game as soon as possible. Otherwise, we don't advocate this purchase. We say that it is unnecessary, that it is pointless, that it is not aimed at the actual needs of the time when the deal will be concluded. In 2012, it is likely to be found in our Parliament when two more mandates are passed that we need many more things than 25 complete armors. You also link the story to our cooperation on a peacekeeping mission in Kosovo. When the first armor is delivered, our soldiers will be back and our mission in Kosovo will be completed because it takes six months. And even today, we can say that with this mission, supported by all of us, and of course we want to succeed in coming back safely to contribute to calming and maintaining peace in this room, we are beyond the average of NATO participation on foreign missions, which is about 8% of our own troops. We've come up with this mission, apparently, to the number 12% of our composition. We assume that in the future there will not be as many strong engagements as this one, and already this mission has been on the way, it is said, 30 Valuk armored men. If we add up with the others - I read this, I didn't exactly count that day when they defiled - it's half our capacity on the outside, armored 6 x 6. And if we pull these parallels, I can estimate that when we walk with 8% of our composition on foreign missions, we'll probably walk with 40, 50 of these types of armor - whether it's 6x6 or it's 8x8. For this reason, we say that such a business is to such an extent excessive, too expensive, especially when we do not know what the final price will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr State Secretary Znidarsic has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u76	I'm sorry. I was named. I just wish for a little while. As far as Systemic Technology is concerned, I would say that, as I recall, at least in the literature it was published that she was invited to this work for Patrio. But, owners, not workers, I stress once again, the owners disagreed. The workers probably would. Too bad the workers couldn't make the decisions here. And I'm sorry, too. That's one. Secondly, it is true that with the mission in Kosovo, Slovenia is probably the country that has the largest part of its armed forces engaged outside. However, it has to be acknowledged that this recognition is also Slovenia, because even in Bosnia, even though there were no more than 200 of our soldiers there, they have also done up to 80% of some of the activities, which I will not say, because this could go beyond this debate, but we have been told as well by the leadership of this mission in Bosnia. And we can be proud of that! In addition, I could say that as long as Slovenian soldiers and Slovenia enjoy such a reputation that they will entrust us with such tasks, our security will probably be very well taken care of, because we will take care of our security, I don't know, 800 kilometers away from their borders, and Article 5 of the Washington Treaty within the framework of the Alliance will ensure our security. And with these units we have, we will ensure our full security. And that's what's most important about the whole thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State Znidarsic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In particular, I would like to touch on one point, which has been mentioned several times, as if it were some transactions which are connected in one way or another, so I think it is right to explain the procedure as it has been. On 15.12.2005, the Ministry invited eight European companies to participate in this project. In the context of classified contracts, I am sure that this country has never before invited such a number of companies to cooperate. This invitation was addressed directly by five companies, by General Dinamios, as owner or co-owner of Mowaga in Switzerland and Steyer, responding to this invitation to run through the Pandur 2 System Technician, not with Krpan, but with Pandur 2. I must say that, although the response was satisfactory for us in this context, we did, according to the data we had, how many vehicles did any manufacturer drive, 8x8, have done in Europe so far, and the minister has already mentioned that Steyer had two, by the time Patria had 144, that Mowag had over 8 thousand vehicles, they have again proposed to Mowaga that he would possibly run in this tender. Again, the reply was that General Dynamics' strategy was to run for one bid with one bidder. And these are certainly arguments that are sufficient that it did not happen in any case, under no circumstances for any further agreed transactions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In my previous term, I've heard a lot of stories about connection, about corruption, about how stories are happening outside this house and outside the government. Today I'm rehearsing the stories, with which the minister started, telling who was who and how the business was going on. Of course, some colleagues and colleagues also applied the same method. In this House you mention the names and surnames of non-members, not Members and Members, not representatives of the Government, they do not have a word, and only weakly can they accompany the meeting of the National Assembly. One of the names was mentioned, I think, twice. It's the CEO of Gorenje, his connections. It is very difficult to discuss this way. All those on the market are fighting for business, working for business, and it is not right that, after not being chosen on one side, someone who could be chosen, then we mutilate the one who is successful at the invitation and attributed to him the lobbying skills, but the negative one, if not just with the omen of corruption. This is not good, of course, and I would suggest that we no longer do this in this house, for this is how only stories repeat themselves. And then we certainly get the feeling that there's something behind that something is going on past the Ministry of Defence, that it's happening past the government, that it's happening past Parliament. And then when we listen to someone else who was in the previous government, not in the previous government, but in the previous one, and talks about how arms business or other business can become a question of blackmail of the state of Slovenia, then of course it can be found that something is not what it should be. And when we're talking about purchasing armor, we need to figure out first whether we need these armors. I just can't assess it or feel able to assess whether the Slovenian Army needs or doesn't need it. The next question is whether we could get something better for this money, or whether we could get more for that money, or whether we could pay less for those armored men and spend that money for something else. This argument, which was made just before here in the hall, you know, is proof that we're honest because we didn't choose our own. But when I heard this debate today, I can tell you have chosen between yours on the one hand and yours on the other. And of course you chose yours on the other side, and you want to say now that you are honest because you did not choose yours on the other side. You've chosen among your people, as I hear today, and you probably can't base your great honesty on this. I am sure that it would be the best - I did not think of you, Mr Secretary of State, who is laughing now, not even nearly ridiculous things, that this smile will surely disappear from your face in a year or two, when it will be necessary to put bills in front of the National Assembly, but not to do anything; I also did not talk about what you said. Of course, it would probably be nice, all the way it should be, if, for example, you chose Systemic Technology, you could see it here today. The second option is Rotis, Patria and consequently Gorenje, with all subcontractors, suppliers, jobs. And there is a third option, which would be the worst, that the chosen Patria, which produces these armors somewhere outside of Slovenia, could also be in Finland, and the Slovenian economy would not be involved. So this is actually a choice that has happened and that I cannot judge professionally, because I am not capable of doing so, but the question is who to believe in this story; but once this story has happened, it is probably necessary to look for a way out of this situation. On the one hand, we now have a problem in Koroška when it is explained that workers will be forgiven. Of course, this is explained by the factory owners, as a result of which they did not receive this business. Is it possible for these workers, who would potentially become unemployed, to do this work within another organisational form; - this is a question that should be resolved, of course, below. The worst part is that with these weapons, these armored men will fight each other in Slovenia and eventually probably get less than they could. Gorenje is, of course, setting up a factory, providing production facilities because it is no longer a mystery. Of course, I also agree with the minister who talks about this and has also been reported many times by the media. Gorenje also offers offers or chooses offers from other economic operators in Slovenia that could participate and that the response is good. So today, we are at a point where we should primarily assess how much this matter will cost us. Was the minister’s announcement a month ago the right one and, of course, the Minister’s ability to say at this time whether what was announced or whether additional contracts or annexes to this basic contract would be followed and whether we would pay even more than we think at this point? However, I certainly think that it is necessary to keep thinking that perhaps, at least after my modest assessment, there is no turning back in this case and that there are also certain compromises to be found and perhaps even look at the actual employees who are threatened for such or other reasons that they will be out of work. Mr Minister, and, of course, all those who make up the current government coalition, you have announced that Koroška will come back with a smile in this term. As I go to Koroška, I am increasingly being watched dead and nothing shows too much satisfaction with the policy that is actually taking place in this house, and even more so in the neighbouring branch of power.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Chief of General Staff and Secretary of State, distinguished colleague and colleague! Yes, of course, it would be much nicer if instead of eight-wheelers, we could build kindergartens, hospitals, nursing homes and the like. But unfortunately, the purchase of this equipment for the Slovenian Army has been determined long before it happened, and there is nothing else to do here. The referendum to join NATO would probably have turned out quite differently if the then power, in which we also participated, had made it clear what the financial consequences of this great and sounding society we went to would have made it easier to ensure greater security and common peace in Europe and so on; but then there was bloody silence about the financial consequences. It is interesting now that those who were silent at the time are no longer responsible and that the cost must be imposed by the new authorities, although it would be no different even if the authority were former. Today, if this was in the programme and the plans for equipping the Slovenian Armed Forces required this purchase, in any event, billions up or down, there would be no big difference in my firm belief, unfortunately, there would be. I've often wondered whether it was necessary for us to have these quadricycles, but no one knows. We may need them on the Wall or in the Sečovje, perhaps it would be wonderful to have them in 1991, when Croats on our side built that border crossing on our cadastral territory. But we didn't have any. And no one can predict that they'll never make it right. This is the programme of equipping our Slovenian Army, which is in NATO with certain tactical obligations and counting on it to a certain extent, including such equipment, and this is it and I am no longer burdened with it. But we'd rather build the homes of the pensioners, because it's going to run out of beds for the elderly than it's going to happen now. The problem is also this: I am sure that our minister is trying in every way to make himself a criminal just to lose points and disappear from the political scene, and other parties would pick up these four mandates and strengthen themselves at the expense of someone else if they are unable to achieve more with their positions than they have. Thus, it is not possible to accept the issue of how the minister has forgotten all this and spent this money. These were the programmes envisaged for purchases already in the previous authorities. He realizes the government's decisions, he had a negotiating team, he didn't barant himself somewhere quiet in the basement, etc. And as for the price itself and the final amount, I say immediately, this year it could have jumped by a billion and a half at the rate of inflation by 2.5%, and nothing is special. And if it doesn't, if it's still 61.9 billion, that's fine, because there's no inflationary increase or incitement. As far as ugly looks in Koroška are concerned. Looks like they're looking at the ugly ones who have nothing to do with it, so I was surprised to see Boyana Kontic, who has nothing to do with this acquisition, but he has to ask himself why they're looking at him badly. When I was in Koroška, they welcomed me, even though I was in the Government buying eight-wheelers, and they believed that we were unable to prevent this and that we must take it as what the military needs! And to tell you the truth, I was at a number of meetings of pensioners, now that the season of the general assemblies, they didn't pull me by the ear, because the state is buying eight-wheelers, and they said, "What's going on through those machines when it doesn't matter, we know that the army costs so much and so much money." The equipment of the military must have, otherwise, to go home soldiers, cannot represent an organization in the modern world that cares for the security and defence of the country or a wider association. In short, it bothers me that you're very excited to talk about this expense you indirectly caused yourself. And it is that it is now being realized, nothing but the realization of your or our common past plans and nothing else. And beyond that, there's not much that can be done. Of course, necessity is always a question. I'll be rooting in the future budget rebalancing for seniors' homes. If we make it, if we don't, it's gonna be something else. But it used to be money, and it wasn't spent just so that DeSUS didn't have any credit in it, and it would almost cost us to fly away from the political scene, even though we were in that government that provided the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Contic, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I really thank my colleague Žnidaršič for his concern. It was not personally intended for me, but actually for Slovenian politics, which treats Koroška as it behaves. And I'm glad you're welcome in Koroška. After a while, I'm afraid they won't want to see anyone else in Koroška, but they will. This four-term offer, if you've thought about the debate before, I don't mind if you keep it. As for the government, I don't remember the government you weren't in, except for Bajukov was back then for six months, otherwise you were through the government, through which you said you needed homes to protect adults, but it didn't work, but you're still in the government. It looks like you're gonna stay there, even though sometimes it might be a moment to think about it, but that's your business. Because you have expressed so much concern for my mission, even in the office of Slovenia Gradec, with all courtesy, I am returning your concern and I am confident that you will have this concern for at least a year and a half when you consider how to re-engage in the next Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u85	Mr Anderlich has the floor, on behalf of the proposer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u86	I agree with Mr. Žnidaršič that the Minister did not "slide" himself, but he got the order, you agreed. But I don't agree with the fact that the previous government did it. The previous Government or this Parliament adopted a resolution. You know that on the basis of the resolutions, there is nothing more than waving with it, based on the medium-term programme 2005-2010 and amended then 2007-2013 and the TRP Act, which you have adopted, this Government; this can now be done. On this basis, the invitation to tender was also made. Nothing has really been rounded up in the past in this way, how much will it cost, 63 billion will only appear in your program. It was not possible to discuss this and everything else, but by 135 it was in the resolution, but only after the negotiations, what will it be. But let's go in one order. Today we should really not discuss what is most debated by the Minister and members of the coalition to defend the choice. He is therefore the lawyer of the successful tenderer. However, it is not the Minister of State, who has been elected in this National Assembly before the representatives of the people who should be concerned about transparency, for control, for directing public money, most rationally, in accordance with the law and all the regulations in this area. And that's wrong. If it were Parliament's task to be lawyers for one or another company, then I would certainly rather see - and someone wrote before the time of "Are you Slovenians crazy" in Switzerland worked for a long time and there was also a representative of Movag. "Are you Slovenians crazy to set up another military equipment factory in such a small country?" That's really a question. And we're obviously going to ask it; although when we go now and you don't want to answer that, we're going to go to a specific question, I'd like to ask you, from now on, to answer some questions that have already been asked, too. When you say, it will set up a new factory for Gorenje and will hire people, the contract obligation is 320 people, the contract is realized, the business is running. Following the assurances of Mr Stand and everyone else from the Ministry of Defence and Economy, these people should be employed all the time, 320. 31 January, Velenje, 31 January. Gorenje will create an integral part for armoured personnel commissioned by the Ministry of Defence in Šostanje and will also open some new jobs at this location, he said at a meeting with journalists today. But something means up to 10, maybe up to 20, but it's certainly not some big crowd. Tell me here today, where and when these 320 people will be employed. Another time. Mr Črnkovic, yesterday's statement says when asked where these jobs would be, he says, "It's solid in the game and Gorenje is the company that's going to build and produce parts for Patri's vehicle." And then he says when they ask him how many of them you're going to hire: "I don't have this data, this has Gorenje, precise plans, programs, plans, I don't know that. This is the one who represents, the one who will deliver Patri." Moreover, when we move on, the 1200 and so many are now offered by the same provider, or at that time there is still a quality choice on the side of this provider, which offered 2240, it fell to half, say. Mr. Attitude, you have said, I repeat, I have not received an answer all day long, but this is absolutely 100% in the coverage of counter-supply: "Now we have even so that the anti-supply programme must be an integral part of the contract, it is binding on the taxpayer." What I saw at the Ministry of Defense, and you were there, and you assured me. Mr. Attitude, this program, this annex, which company, what, when and for how much will Finnish Patria deliver or via Rotis Finnish Patria! And if there are not all the elements in the contract and annexes, I wonder, what kind of work on behalf of the State and taxpayers' money in this case? Tell me! It's just for me to tell you what, when, where, nothing else. It's my job to ask and yours to answer because you manage taxpayers' money. When you talk about what you're supposed to be getting, or the minister even says, "it would be wrong if we got equipped vehicles now." So it is also wrong that he procured them unequipped, for he did not have this under tendering conditions. Under the tender conditions he had not been able to buy, they are today talking about five different puzzles so that I will not talk about the ugly word "configuration" which has been read to us in public as well, he had four types of puzzles in the tender. And now it explains that it's five puzzles, one is basic, and that's that 25. This was not in the invitation to tender. So if you say that you will equip this one time later, then you must tell us when and how much it will cost Slovenian taxpayers. That's all we're asking. I am sorry, however, that Mr Stand does not have the authority to perform today, but it is obviously a tactic that only the Minister and Minister Visjak the Chief of Staff will not be able to make any more different statements. However, I want answers to the questions raised, and that is all that is also the subject of today's meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I would just like to say that, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Condition cannot get a word. And this is not the first time today, but more than once, when co-workers of the minister or secretary of state wanted the word. Mr. Mag's got a replica. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Well, I have to make amends when I said the previous government decided on this expense. That is not true, but the financial consequences were not presented to the public before they entered NATO. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u89	Mr. Mag. Gnyard, the microphone's off. Time's up. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Of course, Mr. Anderlich is speaking inaccuracies again. I don't know what he was looking at or not looking at. In the invitation to tender we have 5 configurations and in the tender we have 5 configurations. You can be sure of that. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] No, five! Look, I'm inviting you to the Ministry of Defense again, because obviously certain things you don't see, certain things you don't understand either, obviously. But let me tell you, there are five configurations in the invitation to tender, namely for the base vehicle, for a top 30 mm, for a 120 mm mortar, for a 12.7 mm machine gun and a command vehicle. With regard to jobs, we negotiated in the contract for 1,206 jobs, based on the final quantity and the price of the subject matter of the contract. And let me say that this annex is part of the contract and is also in the contract. You're going to look around, obviously, when you came to visit, you were looking at something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u91	Mr Anderlich has the floor, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u92	Once again, it's a deceiving. By the time he spoke and Mr Robi Hrvat, who had apparently been notified in advance and knew everything from that famous party's world, he did not care much about what was in the papers. Not at all. He didn't look at one piece of paper, but it has nothing to do with it. But look, Minister, you've got in the tender, for the first time, in your first kit a vehicle and such and such equipment, in the second component a vehicle and such and such equipment; in the third - and so on until the fourth. And now that you're having a hard time with your fingernails, you're explaining that the first part of your first setup, and I think it's a separate unit, but it's not. Because you vehicles, even if it were what you're gonna need, only have four wheels, and your armor says there's only one seat, and there's only one steering wheel. Because any order for a reconnaissance vehicle or any other vehicle has other seats, all other instruments are otherwise placed, and only when you decide what kind of vehicle you will buy will you get all the equipment. So you don't really have anything to use. Then the question is, what did you really buy those 25 for? This is a very serious question and answer it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Croat, I can't give you a replica because you haven't discussed it before. All you have done is give the opinion of the Group of Members, and it is your turn to discuss it. Mr. Aurelio Yuri, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u94	Short response to colleague Žnidaršič. As opposed to joining NATO and on behalf of opposers, we have repeatedly pointed out that this membership will be more expensive than it should be. And to increase this, it was clear to everyone that we would want and look to increase the defence toll to 2% of GDP. But if we have already resigned from this because the circumstances do not allow us to do this by 2008, we could deviate equally from the purchase of 135 armoured personnel, change the relevant planning documents and reduce the scope of this deal for significantly cheaper money. That's our call. But when it came to such calls, they did not respond properly! And last but not least, colleague Žnidaršič, you were probably also convinced that the deal would cost 63 billion tolars and not even tolars anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u95	Mr. Magg has the word. Sayovic, instead of Dr. Mark Pavliha.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. A nice welcome to the minister and the team! There is an incredible clear atmosphere in this hall today. I see a minister and coworkers, a whole bunch of laughs, good will, obviously this story with party armors, but I have to say that as a taxpayer, nothing amuses me, not even the opposite. I'm very worried about this fairy tale. At this point, I am in a situation where I know what a billion is when in the congregation to survive and that we are currently liquid is 150 or less. And now this is the moment to talk about these billions, as if nothing had happened, and let's say the problems of schools, kindergartens, jobs, that I'm not talking about societies, sports and other organisations at the end. In such stories and in this country, when it comes not to personal money, but to taxpayer money, then every euro and every cent is important if we want to be fair and responsible as a politician. As far as the use of taxpayers’ money is concerned, there is no doubt that there is a need for caution. This moment in Slovenia, I think, is about as necessary as a sea beach guard in winter. I wonder, and I am afraid, I have heard so much about the safety of our soldiers, I expect that in the coming days you will immediately recall the contingent of our soldiers to come back from Kosovo to reverse the ferry, obviously in inappropriate war vehicles and unprotected and threatened. I ask you for the good of those who go there if the problem is in the safety of these vehicles, if this is the only thing keeping the Slovenian Army up to call them immediately, stop and reverse the story. Whatever we think, the military in this way means weapons and care. And I think these things need to be given more attention. Today I am listening to this debate, I do not want to be critical, nor is this a political speech, nor an attack on the minister, even less on any of his clients, but for God's sake - the public would be much more at ease if we came up with concrete data, which 10 companies will get a job, Gorenje, who else, whose 100 people and new jobs will we open up. I invite you, if this is the problem, in the Market we have several hectares of empty, abandoned industrial facilities that the country has given us, and now we have quite a few costs with them. I ask you, let us move one plant to Tržič, and there we will also produce some Patrio, and even those without weapons, Patria without weapons, could be compared to a lot of comparisons with it, but Patria without weapons is about like an donkey, horned or bee without a wish. If we were to make them in Tržič, maybe we would use them to transport some biomass from the forests, or if you attach them to them, because I'm from the agricultural area, some plow, maybe we'll plow some crops. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u97	Mr. Slavinec has the word, instead of Aloise Posedel. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, you have not yet heard me, because you are not here, you have signed a contract for the biggest business in Slovenia, but you have signed this contract on a domestic basis and you have conducted this business in a completely untransparent manner. The business is disorderly, as are the irregular and totally inappropriate conditions in the entire military, so this reflects how you run the business, including how you organize and how you run the Slovenian Army. I'm not talking about that. I've warned you about this before. And that's what the predecessors have been talking about before me. On the one hand, you are untransparently spending the most money that has ever had a business in Slovenia. Not only is business untransparent, but we've all seen it as unnecessary. On the other hand, you save on small things and most importantly, you save on people, you save on armies, and on various occasions. I've already warned you about travel costs, I'll give you a very specific example again, if the soldier wants to be at 7:30 in the morning, he needs to get up early, drive his car sometimes two hours to get to work, and you admit the bus to him. The monthly bus map, the monthly bus map, I stress, which is not, is the worst, because it can't even get to work because there's no such connection, and that's not all, that's just one case. You're late for decisions, but you don't issue them for one year. There are soldiers on the traineeship for their jobs. As you can see, the exact same parallels as here with the documentation itself in the transparency of the purchase of armor. Alerted the unions in various areas, you say they are protecting the army against you, but on the other hand, the army is running away, sometimes the army was running over the wire in the evening, and it came back to you in the morning, now the military, the soldiers are fleeing from the professional army, and the worst of it is not just the army, it's not just the soldiers running away, it's the officers, it's also the professional personnel, it's pilots, for example, who are one of the most expensive personnel. Then let's ask ourselves, what are the armors, if we're left without soldiers, we're going to hire foreigners. Earlier, it was fortunate that this mission, because otherwise, I am afraid, a large majority or at least a few of these soldiers have left the army and who will then use who will drive the armory. This is the situation I would like to point out. On the one hand, you spend a lot of untransparent spending, on the other hand, saving on people and reducing [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] also this Slovenian Army. [[..]] Finally, I would touch on Parliament's discredit with what was done at the beginning, which we have warned about and, if you remember, I have already made a comparison once again that the Government and the ruling coalition of Members want to make farmers in the chess field. What's happening here at the beginning is you don't give time to speak in peace, on the other hand, to close the data and protect foreign producers from Members, is the re-disclosure of Parliament. Not only do you do farmers in the chess field, but you even want to end this chess field, but you know that you are doing yourself a bad favor, because you, the position that you are in the majority, are more than our opposition that we are in the minority, and parliament, if you cancel, will have you removed more than us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. General Gutman has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u100	I would only respond to doubts as to whether our members now travelling to Kosovo are adequately equipped. The unit shall be adequately equipped according to the mission to be carried out there. While armored 8x8 are intended for combat groups, which must be formed by the Slovenian Army by 2012 and 2013 and represent the constant forces of NATO. As far as paying for travel expenses is concerned. In the Slovenian Army, travel costs are paid as for all employees in the state administration. They have recently been amended, we note that they are not the most appropriate and we are trying to regulate all these problems in the proposal of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, which I hope you will also support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Mr. General and others! My speaker among the Members, Mr Slavinac, complained that the applicants had too little time to discuss. But if memory doesn't deceive me, and if my sense of time doesn't deceive me, you've spent about 90% of your time in this debate, and 10% of your time has stayed. I hope that this relationship will change a little further. The first-signed Anton Anderlich group requested that this extraordinary meeting be convened in order to inform Members of the procedure for the acquisition of 135 armoured combat vehicles and thus determine whether the procurement is in accordance with the requirements of the defence programme and on which the tendering procedure is based. I am surprised that the Group of Members has requested an extraordinary meeting on this, as all information on this business has been provided to members of the Defence Committee to the minimum detail and all relevant information has been provided to the public. Today we will learn nothing new about this because there is nothing new or different. All the facts clearly show that there is nothing at stake in this business, everything is transparent and no decision is at all controversial, whether harmful or illegal or, I don't know, what else has been mentioned and what is still trying to inspire in this business. The fact is that the call for the purchase of 135 military armoured personnel is based on the Resolution on the General Long-term Programme for the Development and Equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in 2004. On this basis, the former Minister of Defence, at the time of the previous Government, prepared a medium-term defence programme 2005-2010, which included the acquisition of 135 armoured men at an estimated 63 billion tolar. Although this programme has already been adopted by the new Government, Mr Anderlich, the former Minister, has prepared this programme. On this basis, the tender documentation and the procedure for selecting the most advantageous tenderer were subsequently drawn up and, at the end of the phase, a final contract was also concluded to ensure the acquisition of 135 armoured fittings of such configuration as required by the tendering documentation; and for a price even lower than that provided for in the defence plan I mentioned earlier. So, this is the purpose of continuous misdirection and attempt to mislead the public by distorting facts and manipulating data. The initiators of this extraordinary session speak of a different configuration required on the basis of the 2006 new medium-term defence plan, based on the new objectives and required then the Pact, which will require further upgrading of 25 armoured persons, which will mean additional resources and thus surplus of the funds foreseen in the previous medium-term programme. That's true, but this business we're talking about has nothing to do with it. This transaction was fully carried out in accordance with the tendering documentation based on the then applicable defence programme. Any configuration required by the tendering documentation shall be included in the procurement contract. The fact is that the new requirements of the Alliance require an additional upgrade of 25 armoured personnel, which will have to be implemented in the future, but this will not happen until four or five years after these 25 armoured personnel have been delivered in accordance with the current or concluded contract. This will require a new procedure, when necessary, for the acquisition of the new required configuration or upgrade of these 25 armoured personnel, as foreseen and required by the regulations. So, after this deal, it's about buying all 135 armors with complete configuration, as specified in the tender documentation, but not some configuration that will only be upgraded in the coming years according to the standards required now, for when this is delivered. So everything else is mere deception and deception. And in this way, as has been explained many times before, I do not know how much longer it will be necessary, the final delivery of such combat vehicles will also be the financial most favourable. Is it now with the conclusion of a contract, in the opinion of you who are talking about injury, simply to release these 25 vehicles and thus unilaterally violate the procedure which was carried out on the basis of tender documents involving all 135 vehicles? If they had done so, they would have violated the tendering procedure and thereby allowed the contracting party to claim appropriate compensation from the State of Slovenia. In addition, they would be punished and injured again. At a time when we should enter into a new business and implement a new tender procedure for 25 armoured persons, which would also be significantly more expensive and in such a case everyone would justifiably acknowledge to the State the unnecessary futility. Thank God, the ministry and this government of such unreasonable things have not done and acted lawfully and economically, and perhaps this is precisely the reason for the constant problem of manipulating and manipulating data, because in the past mandates, there was indeed a lot going on in the Ministry of Defence, beyond the eyes of the public and the supervision of the parliamentary committee, which was never as familiar as this time, and perhaps someone who had previously been involved in some minor matter falling out of the negotiating tables, and now has fallen out of these games. Finally, I think about the work of the decade, as was the case, in today's debate already mentioned by the opposition Members, and this adjective himself would prefer to attribute to the repeated local elections that will take place in the Municipality of Kočevje, where our respected fellow Member Weber of the Social Democrats is mayor. However, the elections will only be repeated because its party has incorrectly or incorrectly tabled its candidate list and will therefore have to hold a replacement election. His municipal budget will also be severely entangled as a result of this rallies. It's just that she doesn't have any money. In this case, of course, you must remain silent, honourable opposition Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u103	Dr. Slavinac, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u104	Mr Kovačič obviously did not understand me correctly because he denies my statement in such a way that he essentially confirms what I said. I said that we have not had enough time, given that we have already spent most of our time on half of the reported debaters, this fact just confirms. And what I wanted to say with this is that you want to make Parliament an unnecessary pendant to the government and the MPs' army, in particular members of the opposition, of course, an army that blindly pushes the voting keys by way of a pre-ordered order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u105	Mr Anderlich has the floor, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u106	It is difficult to say otherwise than this, Dimitrij Kovacic, SDS Member says, "The former Government has prepared, we are only implementing". In June 2005, this Government, the Government of Janez Janša, with Minister Erjavac, who proposed a document on the Government, for how much money and what armor the Slovenian state will buy, prepared on this basis because it needed money, an extension or a new Law on Basic Development Programmes, because the old one is running out and will have to provide money. That's all. There is no previous government, no previous government, and you can repeat it a hundred times. Maybe you even have the hope of hiding something else behind you. But the time is coming when you'll come to the plan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u107	Mr. Kovacich, the replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u108	Thank you very much. You misspoke my part of the debate. I said that the former Minister had prepared a programme, such a programme that was then adopted by the new Government in 2005. But the previous minister has prepared this program, the new minister has just finished it and made a decision for this government. Take a look at the documentation and you'll find out very quickly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u109	Mr. Anderlich, you have the floor on behalf of the motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u110	True, many things are considered to have been well prepared and could have been applied even now, but almost by the rule each screw up. And there's no reason why you didn't do what the previous minister did. So I really don't have a problem with that explanation of yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. I would just like to clarify this situation between the two Members. Let me say, the proposal for the medium-term defence programme 2005-2010 was actually prepared by the then Minister of Defence. And in November 2004, he defined this as the basis for planning in 2005 and 2006. And that's how the planning went. However, let me say that these basic data from the proposal prepared by Minister Grizold regarding the objectives of the 2004 Alliance Force were also reported in the Annual Defence Planning Questionnaire. Why am I saying this? Because we were no longer able to substantially change these goals, which we sent as a questionnaire to the Alliance in November 2004 or were sent by the then minister. But it's okay, it's okay, because these goals were good, they were right, so we've confirmed them and we're implementing this policy. But as I understand Mr Kovacic, he wants to say that it was only a temporary run, one minister has prepared it, and we have continued it, or I, as Minister, have continued it, because the questionnaire has already been sent to the NATO Union. Even if we wanted to substantially change this medium-term defence programme for 2005-2010, we could not change it because we were tied to that questionnaire that was sent in 2004. So much for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not remain silent, but I will tell you in the light of the discussion of one of the previous colleagues who mentioned his colleague Vebra and Kočevje. Because it has nothing to do with it, but I will answer in the same political way. The tragedy is that, of course, this colleague is one of the members of the group who has been helping in the last two years from this Parliament to work as a cartoon of democracy in Slovenia. Let me explain with three sentences. In the previous term, the opposition, who is now in power, had and led all the investigative commissions. This opposition is in power today, it has all the levers of power in its hands, and it is not enough to lead all the investigative commissions, even the authorities of the Commission of State Parliament turn into investigative bodies, and then we hear criticism from such people that we have heard before. It is uncreditable and reminds us of the times when swift political courts were established to condemn people. And that's how it happens with my colleague Jank Webro, and that's how it happens with my colleague Brada Pecan. And of course, it has to be said out loud. Now to the subject, because I still have a discussion. Firstly, I am still firmly convinced and personally believe that the Slovenian Army is capable of making purchases and doing business on its own at the time of the acquisition of some other authorities. And so in my performance, I was critical that there was no need for an intermediary. And today and this moment, I insist. I think there are enough human resources to do this on its own, unless, of course, they hold certain other things in relation to human resources matters. Secondly, when it comes to the purchase of weapons and the purchase of weapons, it is not possible to talk about savings and it is not possible to talk about savings. That's just the way it is in gun business. That's right, one Patria can cost two billion eight hundred, you can buy it for a billion, I don't know. But in the arms business, that's how it is. And there are more intermediaries, more of course a real deal costs. And now the third one mentioned by the minister, I will have only one vote, but if I had ten keys here, I would raise ten keys for a higher salary or a better existence of members of the Slovenian Army. Why did I say that in my opening remarks that this is a problem that cannot be ignored, I refer again to your statement you made on 22.11.2006? I quote from the Journal because I took it out there: "Erjavec stated in this that between possible solutions to this problem at the Ministry they also see the scholarship, and no doubt the salary system should be changed, because according to Erjavac, this salary is not attractive enough to attract more people. The solutions should also include the final proposal for a law on service in the Slovenian Army, says the Minister. He predicted that this law would be forwarded to the procedure by the end of 2006. And my warning is, now that we're in February 2007, don't wait! This promise should have been fulfilled last year. I therefore point out that it must be completed as soon as possible. For 128,000 tolars - I will not now convert to euro - we will find it difficult to get machines for this professional part, hard to get computers and hard to get people an electro profile, or if I say so in a single word - polytechnics. This is the salary, which is at the lowest wage level in Slovenia, varies by 5,000 tolars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u115	Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u116	Initially, I am obliged to mediate serious protests against people who are addressing us because of the violation of the Law on RTV Slovenia, again, even today, for two years, even though it was adopted at the referendum. Viewers and viewers no longer have the opportunity to watch direct transmission to RTV Slovenia on an important topic of how their money is managed and how their tax money is spent. In particular, Koroška reports that the Government will be addressed to the future electricity bill. We're talking about important things today. We are talking about what citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia would have the duty and right to know - how and where their money goes. Whether it goes in a transparent way in transactions they agree with or not, and whether all procedures have been properly carried out. We are not talking about whether we are going to get out of NATO, but whether Minister Erjavec or Mr Janša are properly managing the procedures and perhaps not deceiving citizens and citizens. And what if I sum up today, Mr Erjavec, we believe that you have chosen a Finnish manufacturer on the principle of buying a cat in a jacket, that you have "screw off" the domestic manufacturer without seriously considering his offer. When you chose Finnish armored men, you only started negotiating with them. And more importantly, the choice was obviously cut out, as it has been heard many times today, and that's shocking, that's worrying. Just a few days before the supplier was selected, shortly before the Finnish Patria - Mr. Minister - was elected, this is not for smiles, but it is for the pose of reflection. That is to say, before they were elected, the political party's world in Kranj had already discussed the choice, and apparently the deal had already been agreed in advance. If Mr Janša once walked with a hat on his head, with which he felt Slovenia before this slogan was chosen, he is one, and he is not innocent. But if the ruling political party of the SDS knew about the Finnish armor before they were even elected, there is something else. Something worth explaining to citizens and citizens and clarifying if Hungary or Austria does not happen. We know that a parliamentary commission of inquiry is taking place in Austria, which has many common points with our case. Not only are the actors similar, but also that, for more money was also bought there less and the bidder was chosen in suspicious circumstances. Let me point out and highlight another catastrophic conclusion from this unnecessary debate, so unnecessary. The owner and director of the company, who is supposed to be dealing with weapons, was selected as formerly a close associate of Janez Janša. Mr Minister, you haven't replied at all what you endured when you're walking through Slovenia - and I apologize - to "wire" the companies to enter you into so-called anti-supply operations. Is it not also possible to suspect and engage in certain corruption activities, because today about corruption, about the possibility of customerism, I will not say about theft, but certainly about arrogance? And I'm even wondering why an intermediary is needed, what are your people doing at the Ministry? There are almost no such principles of intervention anywhere in the world, and all countries are more or less buying directly. And Mr. Erjavec, with billions you juggle like balloons, 30 billion up or down, it doesn't matter. The difference between the price that was mentioned and which in some way is final, because we don't even know what one armor costs. But the difference can be 30 billion, 30 billion is one whole budget for culture, one year's budget for culture can hang like this, one day is one day is another day, and I'm not talking about the total cost, because I don't know what I'm talking about anymore, because once it's 66, once it's 64, once it's 100 billion, just like that. Two wholes, almost three budgets for culture. But also anti-requirements, this virtual and this so indescribable form of cooperation. Last year you promised that the letter of intent had been signed by 50 Slovenian companies. What, in Koroška they are losing their jobs, is becoming less and less part of it; otherwise, I think that anti-procurement is in conflict with the logic of the market economy and with the principle of competition and that the refrain to the former highly planned economy is not to say a plan economy. And they're economically harmful, because the country is forcing businesses to do something they don't know, maybe they don't want to. Will Gorenje, for example, install ovens or washing machines in its armor? Will this be the so-called exchange of services? Otherwise, by refusing to look into the counter-procurement report, even if it is a business secret to assume that these swaps are empty and may not be a cover-up that is not or will never be. I'm not going to go on about what your credibility is, once you speak one way or another, once you're assessing one sum, the second time you're on the other side of one political party, the second time you're on the other political party, I'm not going to talk about it, because it's a matter of ethics. But I can talk about that your management of the ministry in general is very bad, after all, it turned out yesterday that even with a little redness on your face can't embarrass you, some new report that clearly proves that the harassment of soldiers in the Slovenian Army was and that your commissions are your commissions or general headquarters committees reporting on something else. This too will need to be investigated and discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u117	Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. When I left with a colleague who had to leave early, I didn't know that I was going to be there at such an excellent time. I must say, I am very happy about this, perhaps we can also take this as a hint from a height. Indeed, it was in this last debate that all of what had already been said in the proposal for this meeting and which was now hot from the opposition species. I don't know if the late great poet France Preshern would watch this, maybe write something like this, "The left spoke again and the truth died," but unfortunately it's hard to answer all those stupid things that have already been said. But I can give anyone a few facts that are available, verifiable, and obvious, which will put things in the right light. And each of these statements can be easily checked. Let's go in the order they were. For example, one of the LDS members discussed the President's attitude extensively, referring to the US case, and of course he overlooked the fact that in America they have a presidential system and a majority electoral system in which the central personality is a Member. At the same time, this same person, one of the most deserving, is that we still have a proportional electoral system in Slovenia, in which is the central political party. And we have a parliamentary political system. Then it followed nicely. He talked about speech limitations, very big words were spoken, and it referred again to the American Congress, and it was necessary to know what we were talking about, because there were two homes, a representative home and a Senate at the American Congress, and he confused everything. For in the House of Representatives the rules of the game are extremely rigorous, fortified and each session takes place on a specific track. On the contrary, it is in the Senate, where there is, in fact, no restriction of speech, but this is a Senate, a second home, which is certainly not comparable to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Third story. A whole bunch of you have also just referred to some statement after the SDS world meeting, which I have been running for several years now. What was really going on back then? Today, because of viewers, let me stress this, we are discussing [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] My colleagues, after the law, roll the tape and this video will roll, don't worry. [[...]] In short, today's word is about a contract, you're discussing a lot that the contract provides for such or different configuration of armoured personnel. But then, when this world was SDS, there was no trace of it, and you know it, and you've mixed all the apples and pears. Indeed, we had that world after the election had already been presented to the public; not before the election, Mrs Shirca, but after the election and after the press conference a few days after the Ministry of Defence, which made the public aware of the facts. In that world, we haven't really discussed any classified information, but we've just followed the old wisdom to read things first, to know what you're talking about, and then you're just discussing. If you'd stick to this today, think about how much money you would have saved for taxpayers, there wouldn't be a whole session. Because what happened? As soon as you open the catalogues publicly available, Mrs. Shirca, you can look directly at the library of Parliament or at the Ministry, and you are informed of the equipment from which the individual option offered at the time is the choice of the Slovenian Army, it is quite clear that it is for Patria to be a significantly newer system, according to the local word, for at least one generation of the younger system, than the competitive offer. In practice, everyone who's tested this system can read, Mrs. Shirca, only public matters need to be read, and they wouldn't have thought of it. You will read that everyone has praised this system because it is more comfortable for soldiers and because, in particular, it is more secure from the point of view of modern weapons, because it has less heat reflectiveness, which is more important in today's world, and some other comparative advantages are. On the basis of this publicly available and any comprehensible information, Mrs Širca, I said that if the Minister had chosen another, that is to say, an older option, then we should probably have demanded his responsibility in this case; but not on the basis of what he did, that is what I was really talking about at the time, but in what context you are now giving it, but, of course, the story for yourself is telling a lot about you. What was already very well presented to the public at the time, and you can also look at the means of public information, because much has already been said and written about it, 9.6. The decision in the Ministry has fallen, you have probably read it, on 12 June was the press conference of the Ministry of Defence, before which the decision has already been communicated to all participants, Mrs Shirca, not that we have decided before. Most important, our meeting was only June 17th, so four days after that, you can also take a time to look at the nonsense you have just spoken in this National Assembly. Then, of course, you can be sure that all the information was also about who owns the individual company and for what share of the opposite business or indeed of the Slovenian work would have been available to the public at that time. In the form you want, perhaps not, but in general. Colleagues, if we were to calm down a little bit, and when we were to listen, as we said, we could say a little less nonsense. Churchill once said, most of the time, empty closets are open, at least for a moment to close them so that we can end this matter in an honorable way. Now, if we move forward in order. The story of why we're even buying this is exactly the way you presented it. We are buying it because of an obligation in the international space to which this Government has not committed itself, this was your commitment in the past period and we, as President or Head of the Parliamentary Delegation for NATO, are serving it on every occasion when I go to Brussels next week, I suppose I will get that clear once again when we have made a promise of 2% of the share of the social gross product that your Government has given. It was one of the vows to open the door to NATO. This share, of course, does not mean something like that, but must also be in line with NATO's requirements and norms. As Chairman of the Committee on Defence, Mr. Anderlich, you know this very well. And that's why there's been a decision for armored men. That's why this story even started. But why we are in NATO, I hope that we do not have to repeat this many times, because in the modern world only collective defence brings real security. No country is self-sufficient and no closure for such high fences helps. However, in the international space, you must also accept obligations and, in a particular case, they also cost something. How, in what context, and why you drew it out in the first place, it turned out that all afternoon you were trying to prove that it was a party conspiracy, a party deal, to do a customer friend a favor and to allow one deal. More and easier to prove stupidity, I'm sorry, but I haven't heard from this House. You really need to know that whoever didn't get the job, that is, the Director of System Technology, Mr Jože Studenčnik, was actually a member of the SDS and was even the Chairman of our committee there. No need to say anything, he was even the chairman of our committee in Koroška for many years, but he did not get the job, colleagues, because we do not do otherwise because we do not follow the customer lines as you have always done, but look at what is good for Slovenia, what is good for Slovenian soldiers, what will give them adequate protection and security when they carry out the tasks for which Slovenia has committed itself in the international space. That is why we have acted differently and that is why our Government has chosen another bidder. That's the way it is, fellas. And if you're already using nonsense, at least don't speak easily and anyone's accessible verifiable untruth. Because then you put yourself on a lie. But who, for God's sake, will you convince with this? The dates put you on a lie, information about who and what function and who is a member, put you on a lie. You're lying to yourself. Why did this entire afternoon of our time have to be wasted and spent God knows how much taxpayers' money to end up not telling the truth? Now either you're doing this because you're ignorant because you don't read publicly available documents or because you're knowingly lying. That's not what I'm gonna judge. It's up to you. Of course, it's scientifically possible for both of us at the same time. It is true, however, that a very pleasant event took place in Parliament a few days ago. He was visited by children from the upper end and is associated with a fun story that can be beautifully linked to this event. In fact, the children had to go, even though they were very small, through a metal detector that was there at the entrance, and they said, "Oh, look, this is a lie detector. But here must the Members pass through?" Fellows, think of the happiness you have in life! If this was a lie detector, how few of you would sit in this National Assembly today. Thank you. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u119	Mr. Mag. Grimes was discussing it instead of mags. It's a pain in the ass. Now Mr Boštjan Zagorac has the floor instead of the reported Lucky Friend. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I agree with this interesting discussion by my predecessor that if this were a lie detector, I believe that today more or less the opposition would be sitting in this hall and no one else. So the lie detector doesn't feel like it belongs to the government or not to the government. And I believe, Mr Grimes, that you would be missing today. But if we're going forward, if we're going to the theme of today's extraordinary session. Look, Minister, I won't be as political as my political predecessors. I'm not going to deal with the past, but I'm going to focus more or less on the present. The fact is that the contract, or if I go a step back, the invitation to tender, the signature of the contract and the order, is the work of this government. However we reverse the story, what follows, what makes it dependent, is the work of this government. And you need to take note of this - it's the work of this government. And the problem is not in the past, the problem will not be or will be in the future, but the problem is the tender and the contract. And this is your job or the work of this government. So much reality, so much honesty you have to have on your own. But with the parable that the parable will also be understood by people, that I will not be political and will not discuss prices, how much someone has got, what someone should get, and what they should order. The average Slovenian family design a car, any brand, I will not favour any brand and go from seller to seller and run into a seller who gives a million discounts. Millions is cheaper this car than the average second price that appears in the Republic of Slovenia. And the man like a head or not the head of this family says, "O my dear wife, I will take this car." By the fact that the seller just shuts up or whispers a little to his husband, "Look, this car is no steering wheel, no gear changer." And the husband says, "It doesn't matter, I want it. You give it to me, and this gearbox will be installed by a company that's not yet there. But this company will install a gearbox and a steering wheel for, say, a million and a half if there was a million discounts." He can come home, he says to his wife, "Look, my dear, I got this car a million cheaper, so I'm gonna buy it." And the wife was all excited, "Bless you, who have such acquaintances, I am there." And this car actually takes this family. This car somehow "come" to the yard and all the neighbors come, "Wow, you bought a good car!" No wife, no neighbors, no one knows that this car just doesn't have a gearbox and no steering wheel, so it seems to be dysfunctional. But we're going to install the gearbox, and we're going to install the steering wheel to make it functional. But it's gonna cost an extra million and a half. It's said that 500 grand, 500 grand of tolars, this family is somehow at the expense of making the car functional. And the problem that arises and the question for you, too, is a little cartoon, I hope you will understand it. Whether this man knew or warned his wife: "Dear wife, I get the car cheaper, but it won't be functional. I'm responsible for this.Oh, my God! It means that if the woman is responsible, she can be very mean, just like this House, and she demands a divorce because her husband lied. He can say, "This is what one company that hasn't yet done, and she's even more skeptical or blue, and he says, "This company isn't yet, but what if it isn't, what's going to happen?" For example, Gorenje bought 13 euros of land in Trbovje, and today it sells this same land where weapons are supposed to be produced, for 25 euros. It's an equal parable, but quite by accident, Mr. Secretary-General. The family budget or the budget of the universal Slovenia suffers. The basic resources in this family or the basic budget of this country are not, nor is this country concerned, nor is it concerned with the basic resources relating to defence. I'll tell you the case, you probably know him. I hope you know him. We know that the old law, which is still in force in the Republic of Slovenia today, allows the Ministry of Defence to go after any individual who, in any event, buys a field vehicle or has a dog that has an A examination of education, to capture it or not, to borrow it, to return it when it is over or when it is over, thank God, we do not have it in Slovenia. That's what happened, I believe you know. It never happened before, even when we were at war, it never happened, but it happened a few months ago. The man bought a 4x4 field vehicle and one letter came to him from the Ministry of Defence and they said, "Look, you bought a car, 4x4 drives, we have exercises, we'll borrow a little." Yeah, well, this guy's got a lease to pay off, insurance he's paying himself, the state's not paying him and they're a little wild with this car. What would happen if this car, in any way, in these exercises, important exercises of the Slovenian Army were damaged. Who would pay for this car's insurance? I believe the state doesn't. But this was an extraordinary case, and I believe that this army, which is so poor and this ministry, which is so poor, has to borrow cars from citizens who have been leasing to rent cars so that they can perform certain exercises. I hope you can convince me otherwise when you sign up for the word. But these are facts, they're naked facts. Never before, either in the previous government or in the previous system, or during the 10 - day war, has this happened. That's what happened at the time of this government. And today you all remember what happened 10 years ago, which contract, which pact, what was signed. All the things I was saying happened during the time of this government, during the time of the Minister's ministry. Think about it! There's something wrong here! So not on the previous case, but on the case I gave you at the end. Travel costs were said to be travel costs in accordance with all public servants, but look. If you look me in the eye and you stand up and tell me in my eyes that it's true, I won't believe you. All of us sitting here, including you, including the minister, know that's not the case. Don't lie! Don't lie! Let us pour ourselves pure wine, speak rightly to the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, to the Members and Members of this National Assembly. Don't lie! Don't lie! We know it's not like that. As far as this meeting is concerned, we can see how important it is. More important than anything else, we've put a few things on the table. A few things about the defence of our country have been exposed here, very few of us have heard answers that would not be politically motivated. Then there's this story that we've been having in all of these conversations, and I don't care which government it was, not really. As the former as the present, this great NATO, so much supports that we have nothing but expenses from him. Besides paying terrible membership fees to be members, we get very little from all this NATO and this security in this country. I ask myself whether then he helped us with the aggression of the Republic of Croatia to the Slovenian territory. We're not. Would you be willing to help us if this aggression were really in a slightly larger form than is happening now, which is only on a formal level? I don't think so. All of you, some of you, are sitting in front of me, making sure that there will be a lot cheaper when we're in Nate, even weapons, and we see that it's not that everything is even more expensive than it used to be. So please, really please, stop deceiving yourself, stop referring to the past, all the things that are happening are the subject of the present, the subject of this Government, the subject of the calls that have taken place in this Government and the subject of the contracts that have happened in this Government, not before, in this Government. Armoured 8x8, however, I believe that in the form you stated or as you signed the contract, and when they arrive without weapons, they are an exceptional vehicle for the Paris-Dakar rally, and not for the armament of the Slovenian Army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u121	Thank you, too. All of them have a good evening and a happy work in advance. A representative of the Government, Secretary of State, shall report to the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I'd like to explain the matter for a moment. I think it's necessary. It was pointed out by the Member of Parliament in relation to the specific material duty you mentioned. According to the data, I think you refer to the Postojna area, where it was the issue of notices that the vehicle was registered under a material obligation, but not that the vehicle was seized or exempted, according to the information we have or know them, I think that since 1998 these forms of use of the assets from the civilian sphere have ceased to be used. Especially in sedentary forms, when it comes to collective security and professionalization, it provides its own vehicles. However, I would like to say that during the period of independence and in the period 1990, 1991, the Slovenian Territorial Defence was in many ways equipped with vehicles and also with different types of vehicles, including civil works. So, of course, I wouldn't want to dispute Nate's function and our membership in it. Slovenian citizens or citizens have decided at a referendum on where they want to be. Of course, I would like to point out that NATO has certainly done a great deal of work in the conflict area in the Balkans. Of course, it is a comparison of the concept of defence when it comes to allied defence, when it comes to collective defence and when it comes to national defence, that this comparison is very relative if compared to a qualitative extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u123	Thank you. A colleague of Zagorac signed up for the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u124	I thank you for this, very concrete or inconclusive answer, which is not actually the topic of today's agenda. I really don't. It happened on the mainland. And it happened for the first time in the history of this country, not before, and I also probably hope that it won't have to happen later. You're the one who took the man because he took a field car for a lease, and someone came and said, "We're going to borrow it for exercise." Therefore, this army, which is intended to protect citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the NATO Union, does not, nor does it, for basic resources, have to take on the people of the country who are able to overcome enough to buy one field vehicle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u125	Are you applying to the debate or to the replica? That means to the replica. I can't give you that. Listen, each speaker has to decide for himself what he's going to sign up for and what he's going to do. We continue the debate. Member Aloys Sok has the floor. He's not here. My colleague Eva Irgle. [[I know it's okay. But if you're going to disturb the meeting, please leave the hall. Thank you.]] Member Rudolf Moge has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I didn't think I'd see you again in 1995 or in the middle of the '90s, when we're back on the Secretary of Defense's wallpaper. If one minister was known to be always, whenever I hear his name, an associated foam, then such a minister now associates me with Lehar. I think that in his dialogues or in his conversation with the competent bodies, with the National Assembly and with the public, the Minister has shown that he does not have the skills and wherever he appears, he is forcing the complications themselves and the conflicts themselves. I think if it worked properly, we wouldn't be sitting here today and we wouldn't be here. However, the policy path is very strange and the word is being turned around, and now it only shows the fact that the Minister has started to mention LDS completely unwisely and the Chief of Systemic Technology. I think it's completely nonpolitical, and then they turned this political sausage around so that LDS forces where it didn't say anything, Koroski Systemic Technology, because it's the head of this Systemic Technology from LDS. This debate was totally unproductive, unworthy of this National Assembly. There's something I want for myself. The Minister himself said in his statement somewhere that the Rotis offer was better under all the criteria, but if proven otherwise, he was willing to step down. Of course, he chose the criteria himself, and as a defence minister, his first criterion should be patriotism. But I don't think he took that criterion into consideration. I'll try to tell you why not. Look, System Technology has been working for the country so far. First, the reference general renewal of Havbic cannons 105 millimetres of American production, mortars 120 millimetres and non-trading cannons. Second, it was also included in the project havbic 155 millimetres and mortars 120 millimetres. The modernisation of the tank T55 was also included. It concluded a licence agreement with the Austrian manufacturer of light armoured vehicles Pandur. The contract number so much and so on 19.5. for the purchase of the first quantity of 10 light wheeled armoured vehicles Valup and the purchase of a license 6x6 in 1992 was a strategic decision of the Republic of Slovenia. With this decision, it wanted to strengthen the domestic defence industry, which is usually around the world and in normal countries, to encourage the domestic industry. During the 10 years of production of armoured vehicles, the system technician managed to include over 40 Slovenian companies, universities and institutes. Car Krpan 8x8 represents the share of Slovenian industry, suppliers, manufacturers 55%; we say that these were unable to work properly. On other criteria, yes, but this criterion was important to me, and if we explain with this broad world that we do not have suitable experts in Slovenia, that we do not have institutions, that we do not have people who can do this, then I do not know why we invest so much money in science, technological development and education. It seems to me that the main point is that there was no political trade here in the back as many times. I think the minister, when he makes a contract, is not an ordinary man, but he even has an intelligence service to check on certain things. He must, of course, check, from a security point of view, whether this business is good for the country or not for the country. What we see in our eyes is the statement of Jelko Kacin, who was also the minister who says about this Rotis: "These are the same people who once established the public institution Snow White, which I, at the time when I was the defence minister, dissolved because we found that there was nothing else to do with this than unnecessary commissions. And then we went shopping directly, directly with the manufacturer." So here's the middleman. And if this broker -- who knows little about guns -- gets 10% of this deal, 60 billion - 6 billion if he gets it, and he certainly doesn't get it in his eyes. So, now I'm developing a theory, I'm not saying it's true, but it's possible: if you get 60% of this customer, 40% of them split up who were "backside," then such a party can buy any election. And such a party is allowed to publish their newspapers, tap into other media, have luxurious electoral campaigns and influence certain things on more and more. Therefore, it seems to me that this matter has not been sufficiently clarified and will have to be - there are too few arguments "for et contra" because the Minister was completely unconvincing with these arguments in the public eye, as well as today - that another meeting may be necessary or that an investigative committee will have to be set up again to see whether some people have already changed at the Ministry of Defence or whether the affairs that have never been clarified still bear the burden of this ministry and the old practice is offered back years. The second thing I would like to say is: I think it is very unlikely that Slovenia, instead of in other areas, is becoming increasingly prominent in military and police areas. Whenever you turn on the TV, the contingent of our soldiers or any special forces anywhere. And it seems to me that the people in charge of these areas do not work well enough to ensure proper peace or to do anything. However, there is a sitting Mr Bogataj, and, of course, the Minister can set a sacred example for this Government to adopt the Basic Development Programmes Act. But unlike previous governments, this government has only adopted a fundamental development programme in the field of defence, while the previous Government has said, we need cannons and we need butter, we need people, and it has also adopted the Basic Development Programmes Act in the field of education. The last to be adopted in 2002 was 167 billion. When I ask the Minister, he says, "We don't need this." Yes, dear colleagues, when you go to the elections now, and you will come home, next year we will also adopt the budget, for 2009, you no longer have this coverage. And the minister will probably put in projects that will seem to him to be love or not love. So Karl Erjavec has his own tolar, Minister Milan Beast, head of higher education, and he doesn't have his own euro. And that's the difference between the previous governments. It seems to me that if we do so in these matters, we will put everything in the arms industry to go too far and too much momentum into this and spend too much energy and resources on these things. And then there's the next one. If I, my fellow Members and colleagues, do not mind me, touch the conclusions and see what is happening with the National Assembly, then I can say, in a figurative sense, that the National Assembly has become a preeminent of the Government. The government comes to the National Assembly and the members of the opposition clean up all those things that are publicly attached to the Government, take decisions, and the government comes back as a phoenix beautiful and clean, as far as conclusions are concerned, from this National Assembly. But I have to tell you, my respectable colleagues and colleagues in positions, that you are missing only a fifth conclusion. You've only given them four, this fifth decision should still be made, according to what you've accepted: Mr. Secretary of Defense, Karl Erjavec is a genius.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u127	Thank you, Comrade Moge. Member Matjaž Han has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Honourable Minister, Honourable General, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government! Last February we had an extraordinary meeting to discuss the Government's decision to send soldiers to Iraq. That is because the government had to go around the National Assembly in their conduct or decision. This time, however, we are discussing whether the Government or its representative, the Honourable Minister of Defence, did the right thing or was misleading citizens and citizens and, of course, our Members and Members. We all wonder, therefore, how much this purchase will be burdened by the state budget, which is being charged to citizens and citizens. In his introduction, Mr Juri pointed out that it is the duty of the State to manage public money as meaningfully and usefully as possible or to continue to care for a quality life and for the future as secure and as friendly as possible. In doing so, we must be aware of the need to adapt to social conditions, including those which are expected to be subject to climate change by experts. Slovenia will not be able to avoid this, no matter what governments it has, whether it has black, red, left or right. However, prudent and intelligent politics can avoid conflicts that could be the cause of war in what part of the world. Moreover, we can help avoid such conflicts at all. However, such political engagement does not require such strong weapons. But we already know today, and we also knew yesterday, and we have pointed out that in order to put out such massive fires as we have witnessed recently, we need appropriate fire equipment. Today we have 210 congregations. All these congregations could be equipped with modern fire trucks at the expense of three or four Patries. Furthermore, part of these funds could be contributed to the insurance of operational firefighters, as well as preventive health checks of operational firefighters and could also be listed. Two or three Patries less, in my humble opinion, would not significantly contribute to the reduction of military equipment, but would help to improve the equipment of firefighters' societies, as well as the readiness of their operative firefighters, who help citizens and citizens, not only in fires but also in other natural disasters. I made this comparison on purpose because it is the same pillar, because the Ministry of Defence, too, I will say, has firefighters in it, and I also believe that this would not violate NATO standards, especially when we are talking about this 2% of GDP. Minister, no matter how much public money we spend on the purchase of 110, 135 or how many wheeled armors. But what matters is how much the purchase or equipment of 135 eight-wheelers is actually going to cost, which I believe we do not know, nor do we, nor do you, Minister of Respect. However, we will find out in a year when we know whether it was a business of a decade or a century in which only a handful of friends will benefit, but we do not know which. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u129	Thank you. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Mr. Minister, Chief, colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of today’s session is to get precise answers about what we bought, when we will get it, and how much it will cost us. I regret to say today that Mr Minister, you are still not talking about such information and in a way that you can be trusted that what you are saying is true. Why am I saying this? That's what I'm saying from two simple facts. The first is that, of course, you insisted to the end on your statement. 135 armors with all configuration for 63 billion. The Chief of General Staff had to remind you that this was not the case. Secondly, today we are going very easily past, for me, a very important document. This is a document that was produced by the General Staff, which also talked about a significantly different scenario. And here, colleagues and colleagues, especially from the position, would remind you how such a document was the basis, that we replaced or that the candidate for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia was inadequate for a simple reason, because there was a document that was also then available to the public. The document approved by the Chief of Staff is no longer available today. Of course, here it creates this dilemma of too many questions that we have not received an answer to today. Next. Today, there are many words about wanting our soldiers the best equipment and the safest conditions. I think there is no one here in Slovenia who would disagree. Here again I would warn this Government and Members of the position when we were talking about the operating tables. We got the best operating tables for the Slovenians. Was it not interesting that after a year and a half again we found out on the opposition's arguments that we had bought tables that were on the table a year and a half ago and are now at a significantly lower price available to Slovenes and Slovenes. And, of course, here I ask, "What are we buying? What do we buy and what quality do we compare?" And here I would quote Mr Črnkovic from yesterday's interview saying: "Because the equipment that was chosen is not the best quality and there is no longer the equipment that was the issue of the offer." So the question to me is, what did we compare and what did we compare? Is this inquality, so less quality equipment comparable to the Krapan? And Mr. Minister is speaking today, because Krapana has not actually been offered yet. Or, then, today, when we talk about some old people, we deceive the public again, because we are talking about something new, which is a prototype and actually developing with the help of our own minds. It is clear to me that this Government, with a clear position given by the Slovenes and Slovenes, accepts two levels of lower education, is not interested in promoting domestic intelligence, is not interested in developing what has already been achieved at the level of research, development and technology in the company Systemic Technology, with all those involved in development in their field. And of course, as we speak today, to cooperate between science and the economy, here is typical evidence that Slovenia, where it has the opportunity, does not take advantage of these opportunities. What are the messages to companies that break through their "know how" and rely on the support of the Slovenian Government and Slovenian companies. The message is that this is not an important criterion for this government. And when we find out the third criterion, among the criteria, this is a long-term benefit for the Slovenian economy, namely the development of domestic intelligence, developed technology in companies that were actually engaged in high-tech technologies, because military equipment actually always interferes with the field of the greatest scientific knowledge. And then, of course, there's the question and the rewinding that actually happens all the time. No, because it is not a problem, you know that we have chosen Patrio, but the Systematic Technology will be able to participate in the development of the equipment of Patria, but this deception will show up very quickly, because there are two competitive offers and if cooperation can be expected in the military field, of course there are still substantial, significantly fewer possibilities in the area of competitiveness. Why did you talk about business, confidential data, but today if we're talking about how two competing companies are going to get together very quickly and they're going to work together? Of course, Mr Črnkovic is already much more cautious when he speaks, and this will be very difficult for Patria to now somehow commit herself to Systemic Technology while you and these owners. Then why did you promise to transport workers from Raven to Koroška, where they will actually be lost jobs, to Velenje, where you will actually build a new factory. Of course, when we're talking about when you compared 2,240 jobs on the one hand and on the other, when you were talking about 272, that's what System Technology offers. Of course, you're already at a significantly smaller number, so we're actually talking about half of the original supply, from 2240 to 1206. I wonder if there's such a drop in the quality of the contract delivered? For if you have halved the number of jobs, then have you also halved the quality of the armor delivered? Of course there's no answer here. Of course, when he speaks, Mr Črnkovic speaks much more carefully when he talks about what will be counter-winning. At first, you joked that the meat industry and Crassus would send meat products and dirt. Then, by the Minister, it was said how Elan would break through with his winter products to Finland, possibly forgetting the ownership and development of this Atomic industry, Solomon, which is tied up. Mr. Minister, I know you may be yawning in this debate for a short time. The questions that we are talking about here today and the billions that we are referring to here today, of course, require complete transparency and the very smallest details of the answers to Slovenian society, not as Mr Črnkovic says, but now that there will be fewer jobs, does that mean from two cannons one cannon, how much less jobs? - and he said, "Ah, gentlemen, these are details, and there are no answers to that." Of course, when we talk about these things, it is unacceptable for me, when speaking to Mr Standstill, President of the Government Interdepartmental Working Group on Anti-Dominations, that they did not, of course, deal with it. What does the 2,240 job offer mean? I'm just going to give a comparison of what is and to what extent is the scope of these jobs. SCT 2200 and some jobs, Lek 2300 and some jobs, Patria - a multinational - has 2,000 jobs. I wonder, in what combination and in what dimensions and in what rationality have you studied such data? For it is clear to everyone at first sight that the data are dimensional to very large dimensions. And today, Mr Črnkovic says, "Yes - because the problem - is possible; if we found the anti-procurements". But whether the accumulation capacity of the Slovenian economy will even enable Slovenian companies to be interested in going to these businesses, which will take four or five years, is gone, are gone and are gone again, there is no guarantee of that. And the Slovenian public opinion must hear these answers, who and in what way from the Slovenian economy will be involved in these anti-procurements. And when we talk about this, we're talking about 28 armored men per year, 2000 new jobs for 28 armored men per year. There are no answers here, there were no answers, but there was the deception all the time and today caution, when Črnkovič explains, so Director Patrie, that this is a thing of Gorenje. Gorenje explains that he does not participate in a contract with the Ministry. Who is misleading the Slovenian public? Are the data to be given to the Slovenian public on the table? My opinion is that no, and unfortunately we didn't get them at this session today. Why not? Because you don't have them either. Because if we had them, we would have a clear answer today. When we talk about another data, so we are talking about the involvement of the Slovenian economy directly in the product, you were saying that Patria represents 24.1% in the offer that Rotis represents 30%. It was interesting that the Director and the Owner had estimated that this share would be more than half. You have never denied it and never given another tenderer the opportunity to participate in the negotiations for the presentation of the contract. In order to demonstrate the interest of the Slovenian Government that if it were possible to give a chance to a domestic producer who would develop its new production, it would develop its new technological and knowledge-based production and could thus compete not only in Slovenia but also outside Slovenia for similar transactions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u131	Thank you, too. I am pleased to inform the Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy that you have also run out of time to discuss this point. A representative of the Government applied for the debate. I give my word to Lieutenant General Albin Gutman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u132	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Just an explanation of the presentation of the Treaty on the Defence Committee and my addition to the implementation of the Minister. Together with the Minister, we presented this Treaty to the Defence Committee on his proposal, and my continuation was mainly linked to the military section of the Treaty. However, as regards the data that appeared in the public as a result of the likelihood, I have said this several times in public, a game for the data from the documents produced in the headquarters process of work and have no licensing value, and we are not familiar with these documents of the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u133	Thank you. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Robert Hrvat has the floor. He's not here? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. This debate has developed very well, and I must say that I am surprised at the information or the attention of the opposition Members, and those Members who did not participate in any of the meetings of the Defence Committee were not at the closed session of the Defence Committee, where we took note of the documents. I myself am one of those five members of the Defence Committee that I have had this opportunity or I can say that I also have the privilege of seeing these documents. We could have looked at them as much as we wanted. I've been seen talking to myself, I've been so pleased. I wonder if we are the five Members or, above all, I am talking about the opposition Members now and I wonder if we have seen the same documents. I have a feeling that we've been looking at different documents and look, I'd like to clarify one thing first. There have been several doubts about the number of configurations that have been the main subject of the recent trip. Five configurations were clearly visible and the documentation we looked at five configurations. These are: the basic configuration, which is most talked about, but this was also defined in the tender documentation, then the configuration with the cannon, with the mortar, with the heavy machine gun and with the bomb. So five configurations and these are the facts I saw with my own eyes. And deceiving the public here, convincing the minister of the opposite, seems simple to me personally, a waste of time. Because everything that has been talked about and debated today is simply not true. That's not true! Even the opposition's claim that the minister did not allow control seems ridiculous to me. At the initiative of the Defence Committee in 14 days, we had access to all the documentation, everything we wanted to look at. And that's a fact again. Everything else is a deception and a lie. As far as how the contract was concluded. The contract was concluded in accordance with the tendering conditions. [[The ad from the hall: "That's not true."]] It's true! [[The ad in the hall.]] Yes! I mean, it's interesting that a Member who hasn't been to a meeting of the committee has not been informed of the data of the closed parts of the meetings, nor has he been to the "bunker" at the Ministry of Defence, where there were only five of us. And that's where we got to know exactly what I'm talking about right now. I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. As far as the eligibility of the choice is concerned, this is a very important information. Do you know who convinced me? I wasn't convinced by the minister that this was the best choice. I was convinced by the soldiers. I was convinced by the soldiers because we have now - and I thank the Minister, as well as the Chairman of the Committee, that we have this opportunity - to meet several times with our soldiers who tell us about their experiences. I had a personal conversation with a man who tested both Patricia and the eight - year - old Valuk. [[The ad in the hall.]] The rag, I'm sorry, and the cop two. So you can see here that System Technology has not even had a vehicle built to be tested. That's very interesting. Look, I was talking to the guy who tested these vehicles, and, you know what he told me? [[The ad in the hall.]] He evaluated them on the test with the following numbers. By number, say, from 0 to 10, he assessed the offer of Systemic Engineering with number 3, and the offer of Patrie or Rotis with rating 8. So for me, it's a major and mercurial assessment that distinguishes quality, so whether the vehicle is of quality or not. And I believe in the army and the army has convinced me. The fact is, which is very interesting now that the debate is slowly closing, the seriousness of the opposition is now evident when there are essentially 5 or 6 members of the opposition in the Chamber [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] It doesn't matter, but I'm sorry about that. [[...]] [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Please, President, can you calm down so I can finish?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u135	Of course I can calm down. At the same time, I inform you that the members of the opposition are at least once as many as you have listed.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u136	Good. I saw it. Therefore, once again, the main fact must be reiterated that the Minister did not deceive the public, that the purchase was in line with the tendering conditions, and that this business is certainly a great plus for the Slovenian economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u137	Thank you. I didn't understand, Comrade Zagorac, procedurally. I can't give you the replica. He has the floor on behalf of the candidates, colleague Anton Anderlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u138	Above all, I was disturbed by this last debate by the fact that Members should be grateful to the Minister, the President of the Government and anyone else. Maybe you have it so that we can do what we have to do under the Constitution, what we owe. And instead of wondering why he prevented us from doing it -- you saw a letter about how he wanted to do it -- you said you had the privilege. But I did come forward because of Mr Gutman's denial in that he said that some of the documents had been produced, but he said at a meeting of the committee: "The signature on these documents does not constitute the validity of the document for public use, but within the General Staff. It means that this document is ready for some further work on this document." This has been prepared to negotiate the purchase of armoured personnel with this document.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u139	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u140	Thank you very much. First, although not essential, I would tell Mr Horvath that he was also deceiving the public when he said that only 6 members of the opposition were in the Chamber. Yeah, he said the opposition. And I have to say, if I've looked around the hall a little bit, at least once there are so many of us, if we consider ourselves to be with the Social Democrat and the Slovenian National Party. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] I don't know if he's an opposition, but he's an independent MP. [[...]] A few gentlemen from the coalition asked today whether the meeting was devoted to the purchase of 135 Armours for the Slovenian Army justified or not. Some even thought it was a waste of time and a waste of money. I must say, such talk is extremely irresponsible and I cannot understand it. I don't understand. Even if in the end the result were only to be commended from the beginning to the end of Minister Erjavac and all his team for the work he has done, this meeting would be necessary for us and for the public. Such important purchases, with so many questions, with so many far-reaching consequences, with so much impact on the ability of the Slovenian Army, on the lives of our soldiers and so on. Not to mention that this is such a large resource and that we are talking about a 10-year-old and similar contract, but not to allow MPs and Members, not only dedicated, but also others, and that we are familiar with the fundamental problems of the Slovenian public, can only be an extreme government arrogance. And gentlemen, please, gentlemen, I say this because women, ladies, you have not spoken, gentlemen of the coalition Members not on such a subject to show their attitude towards the public, to public funds, and also to the work of this Parliament. I'm afraid that this kind of government arrogance is also the result of a series of problems that we're facing. I don't want to, I don't know, I don't have any evidence to report to the Minister any conscious deception, or the conclusion of a bad and harmful contract. However, I fear that his statements, many times easily given, have also raised many questions and many uncertainties. But he gave them easily because he thought, "I have to believe it, because it's in my hands, because I'm going to do it. In case I make a mistake, the government will cover me, if not the government, the ruling coalition, and if that doesn't work, there will be little media." And this is a system of thinking that, unfortunately, we meet each other more each day and that is very bad and harmful. That is why I claim that we were responsible and obliged to convene this meeting. If such extensive acquisitions, the fact that these acquisitions are a type of public information that is more difficult to access, surely they would not be an opposition worthy of respect if they had faith in each word in advance and did not want to verify any matter. We were obliged to check things out. And when we checked them, all the data didn't give the right picture. Look, Mr Minister, I am not satisfied that this moment, as Members and Members, we cannot find out, at least roughly exactly, some things. We know the price. There are different views around prices. Did you promise from the beginning that the price for 135 armors with all the equipment needed - that I will not talk very professionally about the configuration, because I only learned this now when I read these materials - does it really go to this price for all 135 armors? Has there really been a speech from the beginning that there will be only 110? These are different statements and no one will convince me that there have been some differences in this regard since the very beginning and probably also some easy statements that have been made at the first pressure, that things need to be said more specifically, given on your part. Second. I believe that you cannot tell all 25 armored people today exactly what their equipment or upgrade will be, because you may not know what criteria NATO will set and what their actual purpose will be. But to say that you can't say anything about it from up to and on, I don't think it's true, I just don't believe it, but you don't want to say it today, because then maybe it would show how big the difference is between 3 and 66 billion and the future equipment of all 135 armors. If and until you say so, I'm allowed that doubt. Third. There is no telling what the potential profits of intermediaries will be. They would probably be and would have the opportunity to ask and know, under what conditions, with or without intermediaries, to conclude a contract, whose costs would be incurred by the intermediaries, or on the costs of the supplier or at the costs and costs of our country, it is possible to do so both. I don't think he was making a bad deal of it if there's nothing to be said about it. And finally, even counter-procurements and jobs and places where this will be done - no words, everything is still in the mist. I think that this is bad and that, for this reason, there are still questions that are still needed to be fully clarified and until these are sufficiently clear to answer, but our doubts that all business or business information was not correct enough to be able to be sure of its indisputability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u141	Thank you, you. Minister Erjavec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. I am very pleased with your contribution, Mr Potč, because it was very correct and also at the level. You gave me some questions and I'll try to answer you. You asked about my statement about what I said and how much these armored men are actually going to cost. At that time, I stated that the armoured men would cost 63 billion, even though we have concluded a contract of 61.9 billion with all the configurations. Of course, with all the configurations in the invitation to tender, because if I had decided on some other configurations that were not the subject of this invitation to tender, I would have violated the law and I thought it was reasonable to speak of 135 armoured men with all the configurations for 63 billion, that it was clear that these armoured men and those configurations which were the subject of the invitation to tender and which were the subject of the tenders. In the offers of Systemic Technology and Rotis, you will not find upgrades for engineering vehicles, for connections and so on, because this was not the subject of this call, but these upgrades were not determined in accordance with the agreed objectives of the Union until 2006 when the tender was already issued and the procedure was already under way. That is why 25 vehicles could arm them and reach 63 billion and fully fulfill their promise. But what would that mean? That 2011 and 2013 all of this equipment should be taken down and put in the garage and in fact concluded a harmful business because we knew, after the adoption of the objectives of the NATO Union in 2006 in June, that 25 vehicles would not be carried out. And it would be crazy if these vehicles were equipped with weapons systems that they wouldn't need. Now you're asking me how much this upgrade is going to cost for these 25 vehicles. Look, I don't want to tell you how much this is gonna cost because the project hasn't been broken up yet. This project will be distributed in 2009. I could say some sort of assessment, but this approximate assessment would be misused, as my statement 63 billion for 135 vehicles with all configurations, of course in accordance with the invitation to tender, not with the configurations for the next 10, 15 and 20 years. You asked me about jobs. Look, I believe in Gorenje that it will organise the Slovenian economy and that it will provide 1,206 jobs. We've negotiated so many in this contract. A guarantee for this, we have the possibility of enforcing a bank guarantee, unless these jobs are realized, we have the possibility of a contractual penalty and, if that is not enough, the termination of the contract and the damage caused to the Slovenian Army. So we've actually been heavily insured with this contract. And that's why these negotiations with Patrio and Rotis were extremely hard. At certain times, I thought that we would not conclude a contract, but apparently Patria's interest was also strong enough to conclude this contract because she has an interest in this region to continue to operate. I hope I answered your questions correctly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u143	Thank you. Replica, Comrade Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u144	On the count of three out of four, yes, you're not on the fourth, and I won't remind you what question it was. Only the following regarding the answers. The problem with my understanding and accurate reading, Mr. Minister, with regard to your statement on the purchase of 135 armoured men with all the configuration is that you did not say: in accordance with the terms of the invitation to tender. The terms of the invitation to tender then, again in my opinion, were not known to anyone because they had not actually met them until they visited the Ministry. That's my information. Another time. Or can you say, Mr. Minister, that, unlike one billion or 1.1 billion, from 61.9 to 63, we would provide weapons equipment, because this is the case for an additional 25 armoured men. Please, this should probably be said a little more precisely. And lastly, will you, Mr Minister, because you are in favour of visibility, support and why you have not already supported the proposals for decisions requiring the regular notification of the National Assembly on the implementation of the Treaty, and have agreed that the coalition does not accept this requirement, but says "if necessary", without knowing whose need it is; it is probably not the need of the public, but the need of a minister or coalition, which we cannot meet in the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u145	Thank you. Comrade Anderlich, before I give you my word, allow the Minister to answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u146	Look, we presented all the offers to the Defence Committee on 27 June 2006, and it was clear to them what was going on. [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u147	I'm asking for peace in the hall! Thank you. Comrade Anderlich, you have applied for a procedural proposal. Please form a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u148	Given that you are practically replacing the President of the National Assembly at this time, you also have all the powers. And because he is probably in a state of embarrassment and some fear that something shocking will happen, 39 Members who have been asked to convene this meeting, as candidates, have given only one hour of time, and the government, represented by three representatives, an hour and a half. This is unusual, I will not say it undemocraticly, because these words, democratically, undemocraticly, mean nothing because they only go to command. But in all the sessions so far, which have been extraordinary, the time between the Government and those who requested the meeting has been equal. That is why I ask you, given that there are several other debaters, as well as the Minister and the two remaining representatives of the Government who are now authorized to perform, and that you can also perform to these 39 Members, to all of us, who have been together with you, let this happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u149	Comrade Anderlich, you know that this conversation was held at 9:30 a.m. and at 1:30 p.m., so I will not, of course, trample on the decisions of the President of the National Assembly. We continue the debate. Member Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good bye to all of you! I would, of course, prefer to see a debate here today in the National Assembly about the Krapan; only about the Krapan, because that would mean that the Krapan won the competition. But if we're talking about Patria, I'd rather we talk about Patria, which we'd be doing at the Ravna in Koroška. But not one or the other. In Ravna, Koroškem, iron industry has a centuries-old tradition in the field of war industry. Sometimes, in the old Yugoslavia, we said "purpose production or industry of purpose" because the term "war industry" should not have been used in any way. Experiences are rich. They made grenades for the German army, vital parts for the tanks, they made tank domes, hoodies, cannons, not to mention. And these workers in the Ravna today don't care what they have written on their backs, whether it's Patria, whether it's Krapan, Valuk, or anything else. Some 10 years ago, maybe more than a year ago, there was a circus around the waves in Slovenia. She then competed with Piranha or Movag with Piranho1 6x6. At that time, however, the System Technology or its predecessor of the WTO succeeded, perhaps even the Valuk was not in some way competitive with the Piranha, which by then had been produced by some 100 pieces and was also used in war zones. But, thank God, the Ravens got this job, there was still technical intelligence in Koroška, and jobs were preserved. Unfortunately, during these years, despite the knowledge that the Slovenian Army would start arming itself with vehicles, armouredmen 8x8, the leadership of the System Technology did not do enough to win this game or to win it. The workers in Koroška know that well. Many times, there has also been a lot of deception on the part of management. I've been in Systemic Engineering myself a number of times, or the WTO. Many times gentlemen spoke about how Valuke would be sold to Portugal, Turkey. They didn't sell any. And if today we are saying that Slovenia will sell Patriye to foreign markets - never. I wouldn't talk about what's been going on in these years with Systemic Technology, how Viator Vector got to System Technology. Whatever was going on, they had relatively solid work in Koroška during that time, and technical intelligence was maintained. I know a lot of people will say that the country should not interfere with the economy. However, if the government tried some secret diplomacy, it would still be possible to get this production, the production of Patria, even to Koroška. The point is that Gorenje is going "green fill" investment, setting up a new company in the middle of Šostjanje, when everything is set up in Koroška. Viator Vector, after losing this business, intended to sell, I think he's still selling it, Steyer, who owns about 10%, 11% of the System Tech, would probably withdraw from this business, and the benefits would be double. However, since everyone has good things, perhaps if Koroška is left without these armoured weapons, it may be possible to restructure this dedicated army of industries into the civil industry in the future, which could be good for Koroška in the future. More than once, it has been mentioned that for Koroška this matter means a burial, that a smile is lost from our faces and that the Korošci will live again somewhere in the treetops. That's not true. After many years of unemployment in Koroška is significantly lower than it has been in recent years. The Accumulation Battery Factory Mesica is constantly searching for 30 to 40 people. Nieros-Metale is looking for 30 to 20 nonstop metalsmiths, Radlje Machine is always looking for about 20 workers, Metal Ravne has started an investment worth 70 million euros, ladies and gentlemen, 70 million euros, 15 years has not been invested in Metal. This National Assembly approved the Slovenian hospital of 3.6 billion tolars, 15 years in a Slovenian hospital and nothing invested or struggling. Slovenj Gradec gets a higher education programme of polymers, Slovenia Gradec gets tourism. Levels in Koroška receive a higher-school engineering program. Ladies and gentlemen, in Radljah and Ravna, two Notary cities are opening up, so far there have been two notaries, both in Slovenj Gradc. They're building a new home for the elderly in Radja. Ladies and gentlemen, Kastivnik, Kope, this year a four-seat, four-seat, placed on Ošven, Ivarčkem. And whoever walks in Koroshka with his eyes open and with his head open will surely see these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u151	Thank you. I ask all further debaters to comply with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and not to take advantage of it and to discuss the proposal for conclusions. As long as we continue with the general political propaganda debate, as we have just witnessed, we will not conclude today's meeting. Member Rudy Veršnik has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting to the minister and his associates. When you look at who the signatories to the request to convene today’s session, it becomes clear to everyone why so much controversy, why so much talk. In fact, most of the signatories were also opponents to Slovenia's involvement in NATO. I am not entirely sure that today it is clear to them that without this move, Slovenia would not be a member of the European Union and a member of the Thirteen Club, as we have recently become. There is no way I can understand the proposalers that they are not aware that it also means to be a member of an association and to assume all the obligations that we committed ourselves to at the time of entering into a relationship - since we are talking about the NATO Alliance, it is the commitment of the NATO Union. To make the anachronism even greater, the signatories to today's meeting also had a key role to play. The basic commitment at the time was to take over Nate's standards and to allocate 2% of gross social product from 2008 onwards for the purposes of the Slovenian Army. The resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces, adopted in 2004, states that under the Government of Applicants, the procurement of 135 medium-sized wheeled combat vehicles was envisaged. New targets were adopted in 2006 and are taken into account in the new medium-term programme 2007-2012. The Ministry of Defence has acted only prudently and economically in order to adapt to the new situation and accordingly to properly publish the invitation to tender. On the basis of a guarantee of more than 1,200 new jobs with more than 30% involvement of domestic knowledge and almost 70% of anti-supply shares in terms of purchases of services and goods, Rotis, representing the eight-wheeled Finnish Patria, decided. I really hope the above facts are not disputed. I think that despite some who have said that it makes no sense, the debate seems to me that it makes sense and that there has been a lot of talk in this debate, which we have not heard so far, and I think we need to take note of. For me, the key question is the possible discrepancy between the tender documentation and the signed contract. Only in this case could they say it's a fraud, a disputed conclusion of business. From the reports of the media and the statements of colleagues who are members of the Defence Committee and have personally examined both the tender and the contract documents, I note that these differences have not been found. We have also heard this personally today from colleagues who witnessed this event. I therefore see no reasonable reason to adopt the conclusions proposed by the initiators of today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u153	Thank you. Member of the Parliament, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Dear Members! It is quite clear that the Secretary of Defense has lied at least twice. When he said that Slovenian soldiers would not be in Iraq as long as he was Minister, but he is still Minister and Slovenian soldiers are there. And he also lied when he said, the Secretary of Defense, clearly and loudly, 135 armoured men with all the configuration for a certain amount of money. Today, it turns out that 25 armors have some other configuration, but that's still all the configuration. By saying this, you did not say anything about any tender documents in accordance with tendering and similar arrangements. These are lies! This is not right for you to do this. Second thing, I was at a closed board meeting that lasted five, six hours. There it was very clear that you tested on this test when you compared the Finnish Patrio and the Slovenian Krpan, things that were not even intended for testing, showed that some things were methodologically controversial, such as the involvement of the Slovenian economy in the project, which was based on some statements by directors that were completely non-binding. It turned out, for example, that you were talking about whether soldiers in one armor were worse off than in another. You didn't even justify how you tested it. Those are the facts! It also turned out that the Slovenian armor you selected does not even exist. There is a Finnish Patria, the Slovenian armor has not yet been and has not been tested. Of course, it also turned out that there were 12 Slovenian soldiers in 135 armored men, and if we multiply it, there were 1,620 soldiers and it turned out to be a quarter of the Slovenian Army. In short, a relatively large proportion of Slovenian soldiers you intend to push into these armored arms. It also turned out that Mr Črnkovic, who was deputy chief of logistics at the Ministry of Defence, was the prime minister for defence of the current Prime Minister of the Government, and we know who he is. Of course, it also raises questions about why the Ministry of Defence did not make a direct deal, why there must be an intermediary in between who collects a lot of money, which is measured in billions of dollars, not in millions. We did not get an answer to these questions, but at least the taxpayers should be told why someone is collecting indirect commissions. For example, in Portugal, where they chose Krpan, why they have Krpan or Pandur in the Czech Republic. For example, in Poland and Croatia, where they also intend to choose armored persons, why it is clear that these armoured persons will be made by a company owned by the state or by the state, and in Slovenia they are private companies, by chance from people who once worked at the Ministry of Defence. In short, you haven't answered a whole bunch of questions. And, as I said, abroad, the Minister of Defence, who double-crosses the public, would know what to do to him, but if he didn't do it, would do it in his place as Prime Minister of the Government. But Slovenia will not develop a normal democracy for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u155	Thank you. The Minister will answer your allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u156	About Iraq. This is repeated over and over again from the context. When I visited the peacekeepers, I would say that, as Minister of Defence, I will never send soldiers to Iraq, to combat operations. We didn't do it. But it is true that your government wanted it. Well, that's true, and you got very upset when I pulled the code of confidentiality. We have sent four instructors who are not in combat operations, within the framework of NATO, working and training Iraqi security forces. And I made sure of it myself, and I looked at it, so I know exactly what our four instructors are doing. And don't fool the Slovenian public into sending soldiers to Iraq to some combat operation. That's what I was talking about. We're not gonna do it. And we didn't do it, and you wanted to do it in the framework of a coalition of forces, where the Americans and the English are now willing to withdraw. Now, about these configurations. You say there was no talk of this in a closed session, either. Colleagues who were there will say otherwise, and I can say that we have already told the configurations in the open session. On 27 June 2006, here's a magnetogram. When I spoke about the technical efficiency offer, it consisted of the following criteria: technical part of the offer, operational requirements, technical requirements of the interior of the vehicle, systems on the vehicle, upgrade, combat unit, top 25-30 millimetres, mortar, command unit, combat unit 40 millimetres. So it was known which configurations we were talking about and never talked about engineering, logistics and relationships. And that's where it's all about deceiving again. So here is the evidence of this, and I insist that when I spoke about 63 billion 135 vehicles with all the configurations, clearly, from the invitation to tender at the time, because there were other things we could not talk about. On this issue, Crnkovic and the middlemen and how many commissions. I must say, we sent an invitation to Patricia, Patria replied that the Slovenian market was represented by Patrio Rotis. And that is what we did when we sent the Viator to Vector, where the director or the president of the administration and the great, important owner of this company is now the senior LDS official, who replied that System Technology will be the representative in the Slovenian space. And I don't know why you keep turning your words. I'm sorry. If we had at least participated in all the meetings of the Defence Committee, we would have to look at the documentation to make sure that the matter is really what I am talking about. But you prefer to sum up what the president of the Defence Committee says and work from it - you want to do a big story. The urgent session was, therefore, today called for a great story. Although I agree with what you have said, Mr Potsch, I am in favour of being monitored by the opposition to look under the fingertips. And it's not true that I prevented anything from being controlled. As many meetings of the Defence Committee as we had just this year, in January four, this week we will have two meetings, we have had it two days ago, today this session, tomorrow already the Defence Committee, probably again next week. And we'll go after the details and details. However, the documentation is 2,500 pages and will be able to walk and review each item separately by the end of the term of office of Anderlič. This is his right, and I respect it, and of course we will continue to do so. It's just a shame that there's a lot of time involved in certain unnecessary things. We have many tasks, many obligations, we are developing a defence system, and I would really expect more support from the President of the Defence Committee, not that he wants to make an affair out of every matter. About sexual harassment. Five meetings of the Defence Committee on Sexual Harassment, which was not available! [[The ad in the hall.]] He wasn't here! He wasn't here! No login available today [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u157	Please! Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u158	There's no application today. There's no complaint today. [[The ad in the hall.]] There's no complaint today!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u159	She's Shirtz's colleague!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u160	And they've been promising for a year.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u161	Mr. Secretary, if you'll excuse me. All he has is a minister, no one else. If Members continue to do so as colleagues Shirca and colleague Anderlič do, I will be forced to suspend the meeting. Please be so considerate and cultural that you let the speaker finish his thought. Each parliamentary group had a time-table. We continue the debate. The word has a Member. Do you have a replica, Comrade Lakhovnik? [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u162	You haven't answered my allegations in any way. Once again, 135 vehicles with co-configuration, you said so. It's a co-configuration, isn't it? You have not responded to my comments on the contentious issues on the invitation to tender. And, Mr. Secretary, you've got real bad luck. You've been misunderstood about Iraq, you've been misunderstood about armors, it's not very clear where the state border is for you, and you're also misinterpreted about sexual harassment. More often, only the Minister for Foreign Affairs is misunderstood.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u163	We continue the debate. Member Ivan Grill has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u164	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Minister, the Honourable General is with his co-workers. I think that today it is clear to each of us who have heard this debate that the purpose of today's extraordinary session is not at all intended to explore some irregularities in the purchase contract itself, because all the facts, all these discussions in the past months are quite clear, absolutely clear, I repeat, have shown that such transparent supplies as this, obviously, have not been in Slovenia's history. I believe, Mr Anderlich, that I don't know as much as you do and I wasn't involved in such dirty games as you probably were, so please let me finish my thought. I don't want to prove it. As I mentioned, the purpose of this meeting today was, as well as many press conferences, and also many committees, not for defence, but for offensive - it is obvious that Mr Anderlič is the president of the Committee on the offensive, for in this way he introduces into our room after unnecessary confusion and also lack of confidence - particularly in putting forward a claim to the public that it is wrong with our army, with our defence. To do so, we can only turn only a few months ago when we adopted a budget where all the amendments were deliberately invested in a way that would draw funds from those items that were intended for defence, and, if I recall correctly, all the funds were for only 3 months of the operation of this Slovenian Army. Here we can see what the object was or whether the opposition's intention was to our Slovenian Army. I myself believe that we also know that Slovenian citizens and citizens know that defence and the Slovenian Army will be something we all need, but unfortunately we are only aware of this when our lives, the lives of our children and our loved ones are at risk. In such cases, security does not have a price. We're willing to give it all we have. Thank God that Slovenia was only 15 years ago in a position where we really needed the Slovenian Army or then the Territorial Defence. I still have in mind many mothers who were then in great fear, in great fear when they were horrifyingly watching the attacks. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u165	Comrade Grill, I'm asking you to stick to the subject of conversation. I will not allow a debate on the independence of Slovenia, which we are all proud of, but if you do not change the content, I will take your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u166	We want to warn or illustrate what the Slovenian Army means to all of us. And it was then that we could see the importance of the weapons that our Territorial Defense had at its disposal to defend us against the aggressor of the Yugoslav People's Army. However, if we remember a little bit, we know how they got to this weapon at the time, we know that at that time the Territorial Defense weapon was taken away and that, with the consent of some, now in the public eye of the well-known people who have also given this consent. And I believe that this memory of those events is unpleasant to many people, but unfortunately it was. As I mentioned, defense is extremely important to us only when we feel threatened. We already know from Maslow that in the subconscious of each of us, security is second only to the physiological needs that each of us has. That is why it is right and people expect us to be able to provide sufficient resources for our country to build defenses in a way that prevents or provides security. And now all this ceremony that we've been listening to for a few months that the minister is misleading the public - it's all just one big farce. The Minister repeated many times, and these are also clearly cited in the magnetograms, where he said many times: with all the configurations, but obviously colleagues from [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] - 63 billion with all the configurations offered. [[...]] But that's the point. Now we're not talking about whether it would be possible to get 120 billion here, too, I don't know what. We are talking about the configuration that was the subject of the offer and here the matter was completely transparent. And here Mr. Minister has always been very credible in defending these views, always, but here you are hanging on to a word-game and trying to make a point of it, which is certainly not true. And the following statement that the minister avoids presenting things to the public all the time. Tell me, colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, when in the past there has been so much detail available to Members and Members of the public, especially when it comes to the acquisition of weapons or defence items. It's usually a lot of secret stuff. Here, the Minister has allowed the possibility that MEPs and Members have also looked at things in detail. And then there was no confusion. In an hour or two, apparently on the basis of some suggestions, the president of the Defence Committee again received new insinuations and some new insinuations he had made to the public. It is clear here that this is an attempt to discredit both the Minister and the Slovenian Armed Forces. I'm proud of our army, and I know it's doing everything with a goal and in order to have a security system that will provide us with a sufficient measure of security. And I support such efforts in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u167	We continue the debate. Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u168	Thank you. I'll be extremely brief. Mr Minister, first of all, there is evidence of a recurrence of fraud regarding the attitude of the previous Government towards the Iraqi crisis. The previous government had no intention of sending Slovenian soldiers to Iraq with allied forces. This may have been the desire of the then foreign minister who has a certain sympathy for American politics, the foreign minister we have today. The government has never concluded on this, and what you've been saying never holds true. Secondly, today our soldiers are travelling to Kosovo, I know, although it is clear that they will also have the task of controlling the crowds, as long as there is a protest that they are not equipped to do so. I find that water cannons, which are sometimes very suitable in such situations, are not in the grant of our soldiers. They have other equipment, they say, but there's no such equipment. So even when we go to the assignments that await us, we need to be aware of what can happen to us. With regard to the invitation to tender, I will confirm once again, there is no discrepancy between the contract and the invitation to tender itself, as the invitation to tender could allow for the purchase of 150 armoured armoured armoured armoured armour or none. Despite the fact that the configurations and various variants were required and the offer came in this style, there was a clause whereby the contracting entity reserved the right to determine how much, what and how much. Thus, this invitation to tender made it possible for everyone to do so. This call also included electronic equipment, navigation, communication; and the whole deal did not cost 61.9, but 66.6 billion tolars. Earlier in your reply, Comrade Ptræ, Minister, you are a little closer to what we expect. You said yourself, "I can't and I don't want to make statements about how much more of a 25-car upgrade will cost us, because tomorrow I could be hunted down for a word like today." Tomorrow, in 2009, when the project is ready, Mr Minister, you probably won't be a minister anymore, I won't be a Member anymore, the cards will get mixed up, but it will be in the next term. And it would be good to know today, Mr Minister, from up to - and we are talking about the projected cost, no one will demand, Mr Minister, a clear assurance, but the expected cost of this deal. If you tell us it's going to be one billion or one billion one hundred or ten billion, please let us know that the public knows what this is all about.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u169	Thank you. Member Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable assembly, distinguished minister and other representatives of the government! It's hard to say something that hasn't been said and heard. Initially, I have a very positive attitude towards the Slovenian Army, which represents an important pillar of Slovenian statehood and independence, an equal component of the NATO Alliance, that it is professionalized, excellently qualified, but must also be well equipped, in accordance with NATO standards and tasks. The security and defence of the Republic of Slovenia have become an active part of European and international security and defence, and the organisation and structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces are gradually being adapted. Why do I stress this positive attitude in particular? Because I perceive this in this request from a group of Members, and especially in the public and today's performances of the most vocal critics, I am reminded of the time of Slovenia's independence, when it was stated from the same political circles in the public that Slovenia does not need an army, that it needs a "futr" and not guns, when one of them worshiped the Yugoslav Army and evaluated and mocked the Territorial Defence. It is very welcome to stress how much the Slovenian Army costs, how much tax money is spent, but at the same time it is not said that Slovenia in the former Yugoslavia has paid for the Yugoslav Army not only 2% of the gross social product it devotes today in Slovenia alone, but 5 or 6%; I believe that much more is needed. All of this is forgotten whether or not, nothing is remembered in the public anymore, but more or less of the same people listen to criticism, search for errors, fabricating facts, misleading the public, politicizing by playing on the emotions of citizens who in peacetime generally reject any military. That's not good. Such controversy and criticism in the public and the media is not an honor to us Members, even less to the Republic of Slovenia. In the European area of Slovenia, it reduces credibility and increases the lack of confidence of European partners. However, the military area has some specificities and legalities, which must operate strictly within the framework of the Constitution, laws and regulations. These facts, cited by the signatories for today's extraordinary meeting, are too general, misleading and non-committal, both for the Minister and for the General Staff, without real evidence and arguments. Therefore, the Minister could also have rejected them in his recital. For example, the claim under point 1 that Minister Erjavec deliberately deceived the MPs of the National Assembly - I can say that he never deceived me as a minister. Therefore, this claim is not true. I myself have read a lot of material on this issue, magnetograms of meetings of the Committee on Defence, public controversy, public accusations and defences, and on this basis I have drawn up my views and conclusions both on the economic, technical and economic aspects and on the grounds of the opposition's opposition's opposition's opposition. And since critics from the opposition have not found irregularities, illegality in the terms of the invitation to tender, you point your criticism at 25 armoured men, if they do not have all the intended configurations, and you acknowledge that they only have the basic configuration, which according to the Minister's assurance is in accordance with the tendering conditions. And that's what the Secretary of State said was deceiving you. As a result of the changes in the objectives of the NATO Alliance, there has been a wise decision at the General Staff to purchase 25 vehicles in the basic implementation with certain adjustments, which will be upgraded over the coming years, according to the needs plan, with special dedicated equipment, which is continuously improved by the development of electronics and technology. Therefore, it would be illogical and very harmful to buy this equipment now and install it when there are no specific needs, and only a few years later would this equipment be obsolete. Remember only the mistakes of the past: restoration of 30 old Russian tanks, purchases, upgrades of Pilatus planes, purchase of 155 havbics and more. Therefore, it was a wise decision to purchase all 135 vehicles of the same type for spare parts and maintenance and then to upgrade the progressively controversial 25 vehicles according to the needs of the state-of-the-art equipment. And because I see nothing illegal, nothing misleading in this purchase, but only professionally and professionally good and wise decisions and legitimate tendering procedures and contracts, criticism and opposition are increasingly preventing me from doing all this for political interests, and especially for lobbyist connections. Today, it has already been heard that the top management of the Viator Vector group, which is also the majority owner of Systemic Technike d.o.o., is closely linked to the summit of Liberal Democracy. That the loss of such an important business is a major business blow, and probably the loss of individual commissions. It would be interesting to see the ownership structure in the chain of these companies, and I would not be surprised if any criticism had ownership stakes in these companies. I certainly support the proposed conclusions of the Defence Committee, the Minister and the General Staff, and I also wish to make as much progress as possible in updating and restructuring the Slovenian Armed Forces and its functioning.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u171	Member Bojan Homan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting for me! Today, in the National Assembly, it has been said that the state is obliged to manage citizens' money. I agree, and I support that. The former Government has adopted the Public Procurement Act, and I think there are quite a few doubts here. I believe they've been plowing the ice, and they've made some mistakes. And let me just mention them a little bit, because today they're also so obvious and vehemently speaking. There must have been a dispute over the purchase of police boats. We were buying boats that were then prototypes of an Italian producer, which I don't know if they're anymore in the sea or more on land.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u173	Comrade Homan, please, if you stick to the motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u174	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u175	No, don't hang in there.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u176	Today it is clear that we have not chosen the right bidder. I believe that we have chosen a supplier whose armoured personnel are already in production, who are already serving their purpose and have not decided on some prototypes because we already have experience of what it means to purchase a prototype. We were able to learn a lot from the mistakes of the previous government also when buying a government plane, in the call for tunnels, in the call for havbice and in the harmful purchase of respiratory masks. I believe that this is far more harmful and I think that we have learned from these calls and from these offers and that today the Ministry has made a good deal of buying real armor that will benefit us for 20 years. I think that this speech was unnecessary here in the National Assembly, there was a lot of talking in mind and misleading - armored men will serve their purpose. There was a lot of populism, talking about how we could buy something else out of it that we could do. That's right. We could do a lot of other things, but without our own defenses, we wouldn't be anything. Remember, not many years ago, how hard it was for us to get to the weapons, how fortunate we were to defend our country. I'm sure we don't need armor in peace, but we're part of Nate. Today we work for others, maybe the time will come when others will work for us. And I think that we have made the right decision, that we have said a lot about these armored persons and that we can finally be happy to have them and that we will use them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u177	Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor. He's not here. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Well, I can't say I'd be happy to have armor, but I'd be more happy if we didn't have to use armor. I would refer, however, to the words of Dr Jožet Mencinger, who spoke about the economy of eight-wheelers and who does not see at least one transparency, this is transparency in counter-procurements, in which neither the Ministry of Economy believes, because it refuses to look into the report on counter-winning. And this is what it would suggest to talk about, given that the current coalition is so eager to refer to transparency. But there are many more things that could be said, including about the culture of political discourse [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr Albin Gutman, Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Army, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u180	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to say just a few more words that are related to this and to the question why the Slovenian Army actually needs all these armored men and what these armored soldiers mean for the Slovenian Army. So far, apart from the fighting technique that we have restored and retained since the Yugoslav Army and in recent years, Valukov has virtually no modern fighting technique. The soldier we meet around the world today in various crisis response operations must be adequately protected and practically there is no infantry soldier who would not have the appropriate armoured means to do so. By purchasing armored 8x8 we will also meet the commitment to the Alliance and by 2013 we will provide two battalion combat teams with equipment that will enable the full use of these units within the framework of the Alliance and also, importantly, within the framework of national defence. The armory we have selected has been chosen according to all the principles in force in the selection for armored vehicles and weapons. In the verification, there were over 300 items that we checked, and I can assure you that we have chosen the armored device that is currently on the world market among the most successful and which will also provide our soldiers with adequate security at the battlefield. This is extremely important because we send a Slovenian soldier into various operations which may also appear to be completely dangerous, but each such operation bears a certain level of risk and the duty of the Slovenian Army is to ensure that all the soldiers we send to the mission are trained, trained as best as possible, and, of course, by the means we give them at our disposal, that, as long as there is a war use, these means ensure their survival in the battlefield. In addition to all these requirements that we have imposed on vehicles, it is of course also important that almost a third of the Slovenian Armed Forces will use these combat vehicles for an extremely long period of time; almost 20, 25 or perhaps more years, as far as these combat vehicles are concerned. All vehicles are also transferable and can be used in different ways. With these vehicles, we will achieve that the Slovenian Army, in addition to the other equipment we have, will be modernly equipped, capable of carrying out all the tasks both within the framework of the tasks it has in the country and in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u181	Thank you. Member Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u182	Dear colleagues and colleagues. The rest of you are present. I have no problem discussing anything in this National Assembly. However, in this debate and in such a debate as we are witnessing to her today, it raises questions that make sense in a different way, as my colleague Potrč pointed out. In some ways, the proposers should also be aware of the responsibilities when proposing a debate on a particular issue and, in such a case as we are witnessing to him today, withdraw certain consonants. For we are discussing a matter, which has been documented several times in several places, that the tender chosen was more favourable than a competitive offer. It is right that we are talking about the rationality of spending budgetary money, which I absolutely agree with. And I would say that the committee could have more weight on this and things should be going on more than they are going on in this place. However, given who is behind the company that has not been selected and the story that has happened in the recent past in 2003, this situation is probably much clearer. And that's what to be scared of. For after all this I have the feeling that today we are discussing this matter because there is a lobbying session on the decision that we have heard many times today, so that the deaf can hear it, only some in this National Assembly do not want it, which has been the most favourable under all the criteria defined in this selection of offers. A company that has not been selected - I understand that it is a business that is of a huge range and that it is not easy to swallow such a defeat, but it is a company that is somehow linked to the opposition. This is a company that was connected years ago, individual employees in this company in high places are connected to both the SIB's affair and the purchase of the System Technology, which was sold to Viator Vector for fighting 450 million. The majority was sold to Viator Vector by the country for 450 million tolars, with 29% already known to be sold to Austria’s Steier at the time of sale. However, for this proportion, the public never found out how much he was worth. Interesting! Never! We don't know that today. At the time of the sale with the Ministry of Defence, the company had over 9 billion tolar transactions. And with the former chief of staff of the LDS cabinet, Mrs. Vike Potočnik, Samo Lozej, Anton Kolarič, former Deputy Mayor of the United List or SD, and so on. When we connect these relationships and this information, then the matter is no longer so innocent. And I think we should ask ourselves that. On the basis of all the criteria we have heard several times today, and all these facts are based on documents. It's not about someone saying anything. This is based on the documents we have today on the table that the selected asset, which is professionally justified better, is significantly better than the competitive one, is 10 to 18% more favourable, the supplier of which provides the Slovenian economy with significantly more favourable conditions than the unchosen bidder. These are documented facts we can't get past. And if some of you are asking hypothetical questions about the alleged commissions, what they would be like, because this is a business for an intermediary who, on the basis of Patricia's mandate, provides this supply, then I'm wondering what the commissions would be for 10 to 18% of the more expensive bidder, and then where would they go? I firmly believe that this meeting would not have been if a successful tenderer had not been selected this time, even if the price had been more expensive and less favourable for that country. I cannot support the decisions proposed by the proposers, nor the amendments to the Committee's decisions. However, I support the Committee's conclusions, and I think we should seriously ask ourselves in these discussions whether we deserve our salary with such a work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u183	Thank you. In eight seconds, I invite Member Bojan Rugl. I would like to take the floor in just a few seconds, and I would like to invite Mr Jožet Tank. [[You're giving up.]] I give my word to the government's representative. Here you go. Excuse me, my mistake, Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u184	Thank you very much. These few seconds, I'm going to try to make the most of it as quickly as possible, so let's do it. A lot of populism, yes, dear colleague Homan, a lot of populism to the facts. Populism is also 1,000 jobs promised by Minister Erjavec at this meeting today. Yesterday's words speak differently, Director Rotis and Director Gorenje. There will be no new 200 jobs by Gorenje, we will hire only a handful of experts. Director Rotis doesn't have any new jobs. Instead of double-edged mortars, single-point production or production of unit-point mortars, it could also be listed. You know, that's lies, Minister, and that's deception, and that's populism. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u185	Thank you. My word to the Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. I cannot agree that this is a deceiving of 1,206 jobs. Let me tell you, we protected it with a contract. If there are no such jobs, as I said, we will first renew the bank guarantee, then the contractual penalties and finally the termination of the contract. But as I said, I trust Gorenje. Gorenje is a successful company. Today we were able to read in public to prepare, organise the Slovenian economy to build a factory in Šostanje. They also invite system technicians to participate in this business. Let me tell you, there have been a lot of perceptions about why I visit directors and even "wire." I have to say that's not true. I was invited by the directors. Personally, I got an invitation to come to their factory. For example, Sava, Director Bohorič, Kolenc of Iscratel. In Elan it is not skis, etc., but it is also a nautical program, which is very interesting for Finns etc. I respond to these invitations. I think it's also right to respond to these invitations. I don't think the Minister of Defense is prohibited from being invited by the Director of the Enterprise. Unless we live in other times when it's forbidden. But so far, I don't think it was illegal and it was a consistent practice not only with us, but also abroad. With regard to these 1,206 jobs, regardless of what Director Rotis has said, the Treaty is clear, the consequences are clear. But like I said, I trust the company Rotis. I'd like to say this for the end. I must say that the contract for the purchase of 135 armoured personnel is concluded in accordance with the planning, development documents, rules and budgetary bases. Let me tell you, there have been several disputes regarding the election. The provisional order has been rejected twice and is legally rejected. The lawsuit was dropped in the first degree. The judiciary, the judicial review has found that everything was fine in the election, no matter what you think. But I hope at least you respect what the court has decided. The Chief has already said nicely that the contract provides the key and most important weapon system of the Slovenian Armed Forces for a longer period. This is the case for vehicles which will be used for more than 20 years for the most secure vehicles at this time. Let me say that in the framework of the treaty, we have also decided on certain options to increase the safety of our soldiers, in addition to these vehicles, we have been able to protect them with anti-lock, i.e. anti-minal and anti-bilistic. This means that our vehicles are more protected than Patria vehicles, which are in normal serial production. That's because we wanted to ensure the maximum security that could be provided for our soldiers. It was said that 1,500 soldiers would use these vehicles. It is our responsibility, this is the responsibility of the state to send soldiers to crisis hotspots on missions to provide these soldiers with the most secure equipment. This is the duty of us, the duty of the Minister of Defence, the duty of the Government and also of the National Assembly. I think it would be very irresponsible to send our soldiers to Afghanistan, Kosovo and elsewhere with inadequate equipment. I should also say that, by concluding this Treaty, I have neither violated my powers nor any planned budgetary or normative basis. This treaty is concluded in accordance with the rules and we must also say that I have not deceived the public. I may have been misinterpreted, but I have always felt more inclined to be misinterpreted in this matter. Even as I have prevented parliamentary control, I think it is too much of a dictatorship. Last but not least, we have shown and allowed Members to see the entire supply documentation, both offers and contractual documentation with all the annexes. But it has proved to be true that the five Members have different views on these documents. But it is no big deal, given that it is now clear that Members can see that they are authorised persons, of course they can look on the basis of a clause that will continue to protect business secrets. This restriction remains. So I don't see any problem because it was said that there are not five configurations in the invitation to tender. It will be possible for those who do not believe to come to the Ministry of Defence, to see and make sure that there are five configurations in the call. I think that this debate has nevertheless been useful. We've cleared up certain things, so I hope this time wasn't wasted. I think it was also right for us to face these views. However, I see that this debate with today's session will not be concluded that some still have many doubts. That's because they obviously didn't read all the documents. They prefer to read newspapers and draw from newspaper news instead of reading the Medium-term Defence Programme 2005-2010, as set out in the Medium-term Defence Programme 2007-2012, such as the Resolution on the Long-term Programme for the Development and Equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the Basic Development Programmes Act, both budgets, how dynamics are flowing, and so on. If we really looked at it, read it, then there wouldn't be any trouble. That's how I'd end my speech. The only thing I don't know now is what's going to happen to those 13 minutes, whether this is going to split up among the Members and that's what's going to happen. However, I think that everything has already been said and we would just repeat ourselves today.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u187	Thank you very much. I also conclude the debate with your performance. We will move to a debate in the framework of the time remaining for the parliamentary groups and to a decision on the amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 15.2.2007. We will decide and discuss the amendment for the new 5, 6, 7 and 8th draft decision. I am putting forward an amendment to the debate for a new 5th proposal for a decision. I'm opening the debate process. I'm asking you to sign up. Member Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I've said before, and once again, I don't support this amendment proposal. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] But since there's not much time left, I won't say much more. So thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u189	Thank you. Member Ivan Grill has the floor. [[Time's up.]] Thank you. Then I conclude the debate and we are moving on to a decision. Comrade Bajc, I've opened the application procedure. Comrade Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must have pressed, but you probably got away earlier because there were two red names, and then you gave your word to those who didn't have time. Can I? Thank you very much. [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Others might comment on this, not on those who are loudly reminding me of the pressure I am exerting. [[A laugh in the hall.]] On behalf of the parliamentary group, I will say that we will not support the amendments, given that these amendments return the text of the proposals for conclusions, as the 39 signatories to the proposal for today's meeting have already tabled them with a proposal for today's meeting. Thank you, Vice President, for allowing me to say this.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u191	Thank you. We are moving on to a decision-making process, which we are moving on to a vote-explanatory process. I'm opening the procedure. I request an application on behalf of the groups of Members. Member Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u192	The amendment to the new fifth proposal of the decision will be supported because it is indisputable that Minister Erjavec has deceived and continues to deceive. And also in his last statement, he declared what is a kind of precedent: "Now it is clear that Members are authorised..." I ask you very much, Mr Minister, from the very beginning, since the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on Secret Data and the Preservation of Secret Data, it is clear that Members are those who can and must oversee the defence sector, the use of public money, the transparency of this spending and so on. And if the Minister gets rid of the declaration today that it is only now clear when he has been rejected by the President of the National Assembly by his request, and this request has been announced that the President should prevent Members from looking into the documentation, then that is his explanation and is not true. And it is very important to make it very clear that there is also evidence that he is misleading. That he does not want to say now and does not want to say that at the time, with 63 billion on the basis of a document approved by the Chief of Staff at the committee meeting, which he created for 92 billion, that he claimed that he would cost 63 billion, he knew that he would cost more and cost more, and also because he could not buy 25 equipped, although he had them in the 2005-2010 medium-term programme, which he himself brought to the government, and that this Government, now under the leadership of Janez Janša, accepted, where it was written that we would buy 135 equipped with fighting assets and will be used for some reconnaissance and so on. You have this in the document in the medium term 2005-2010. And yet today, he still insists that it is that he does not know that the goals are changing and so on. By the way, the objectives have changed when you in the SDS world discussed that the best bidder is this and that and that the greatest benefits will be for the Slovenian economy, so we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u193	Thank you. Member Robert Hrvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u194	Thank you very much for your word. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we will not undermine the amendments to 5, 6, 7, and 8 of the draft decision with a simple explanation. These amendments to the conclusions put the conclusions of the coalition, which we adopted on the Defence Committee, practically on the head. Those conclusions we proposed on the committee show a real picture of the purchase of armored 8x8. Now I have voted for practically all the amendments and I say that the Slovenian Democratic Party will not support any amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u195	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 38. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I am putting forward an amendment to the debate for a new sixth proposal for a decision. I'm opening a hearing. Here you go. We're going to have to repeat the procedure again because the computer didn't take into account the time spent. Please re-apply to the possible debate. But I ask each Member, he knows best whether he has time to discuss it or not. I'm opening a procedure, a debate. Stan Pike has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. As we have heard many times today, our Group of Members and I do not agree with this meeting at all, and I think it is quite pointless because we have repeatedly considered this on the Defence Committee, so I know all the numbers in my head. The process was proceeding correctly and I see no need for this meeting, but it happened and we also had a chance to hear a lot of things. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u197	Comrade Pike, allow me to intervene in your performance. We are currently talking about the amendment for a new sixth proposal for a decision. Please, if you'll hold on to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u198	That's an introduction. But I will not support the amendment because it is pointless and we have already proposed our conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u199	Thank you. Comrade Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I will support this proposal as a Member of my own, mainly because today's debate has clearly shown that it is true. The fact is, I quote the minister, who said that, as Minister of Defense, he claims that he will buy these 135 armoured men for 63 billion with all the configuration. All the configuration is all configuration, I am very sorry, but the Slovenian language in this regard is unequivocal and very well behaved and here you have deceived me not to use a more reticent word. You call it misinterpreted. [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This is a term that ministers of this government have been using more and more recently, and it is time for the National Assembly to take a position on this and call it misleading. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Can we move on to a decision? I see it's a wish to explain your voice. I request an application for explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u202	The amendment is proposed for the Slovenian National Assembly to be able to make it clear that Slovenian taxpayers, in contrast to what Mr Minister explained, will cost these 135 armoured people much more than 63 billion. This is not only the document of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces but also the signed contracts talk about it, because today this has not been much mentioned, but the fact that Slovenian taxpayers will be less jobs in Slovenia than promised to cost Slovenian taxpayers at least 8 billion more. Today, when I listened to this debate, I was very surprised at how the minister was so vehemently metal numbers here and there. The fact is, Mr Minister, and the National Assembly must say this that it is not possible to accept the Minister's interpretation on one side, and after the information shows that the Minister lied that he was deceiving that we as the National Assembly were just passing through. Therefore, Members of the ruling coalition, if you wish to report to the Slovenian public that you are also not satisfied with the cost of more than 300 million euros for 135 Slovenian taxpayers, then support this decision. We will support him alone and in the House of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u203	Thank you. Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u204	Thank you. Social Democrats remain in the opinion that the public, the National Assembly and the media have been misled. When the media learned that several more vehicles would have to be upgraded for reconnaissance, commanding, visual needs, then the minister replied that these were baseless hints and that 93 billion, as far as they were indicated and reported, was not a number that they could take seriously. And he repeated that it was 63 billion and nothing more. I would say that the minister should even apologize to those media who wrote about it and labeled them malicious writing. So, last but not least, colleagues from the Coalition Defence Committee admitted to me in private talks that you yourself understood the Minister as we did. And if you understood him as well as we do, it means you've been misled yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Can we move on to a decision? We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 38. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the new 6th proposal for a decision is not adopted. I am putting forward an amendment to the debate for a new 7th proposal for a decision. Can we move on to a decision? I am opening the application procedure on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go. Member Anton Anderlič has the floor to explain his vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u206	We will vote in favour of the proposal for a decision on our own and also on our own, because it has proved indisputably, both today and in the past period, that this is a business that is not defined by the extent, how much money and when we will get it. Today, a question was asked to the Minister, which means that the equipment they have chosen will probably be the Slovenian Army or the Ministry chosen for these vehicles is not the most expensive and of the highest quality, for example, the offer is contained, etc. This is your director, the supplier says yesterday, today you're asked what equipment we're buying, what equipment we're getting, there's no answer. Please state that this is a transaction which is in line with the tendering documents. We can conclude from this that the tender required the highest quality weapons, that the highest quality equipment was required, and we will not get it, because you negotiated with your self-inflicted intermediary, that is, this intermediary, that it is a matter of the state to choose it or not. You're pleading with Patrio that Patricia forced this broker on you. No, he said, in the Slovenian Army, in the newspaper you are publishing, we are paying, taxpayers, that he wrote a letter to Patrija, that he would like to be a representative for Patrio on the Slovenian market when he learned, obviously from the Ministry, the Slovenian Army, that we would buy heavy armor in Slovenia, and that he would also do something here along with, of course, business and also earn. It is certainly necessary to say that you do not respect the medium-term programme, the equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces 2005-2010, which, on the basis of what has been prepared, you have proposed to the Government yourself, and adopted it, which clearly states that 135 vehicles for 63 billion will be equipped with fighting or defence equipment and also used for those purposes for which you say you do not know this today and that you are just doing the programmes. Apparently, the Slovenian Army General Staff has been doing this for a long time and it's also last September. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u207	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u208	They came in front of the board and said they were doing it and it'd be more expensive. [[...]] That's why it's a proposal. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u209	Thank you. We can go to the vote. More explanations in your own name. I'm opening a new procedure. Here you go. Member Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u210	I'm very sorry that the minister has to defend a business he didn't do. But in spite of everything, he convinced me out there outside the door today, I think there were seven and there were thirteen, and on POP TV he made a statement that, otherwise, armors cost 63 billion, but that this is not the final price, that out of the 40 billion that are additionally reserved for this type of equipment, it will draw as much as it takes. As long as it takes, there will be 40 billion more. On the one hand was colleague Anderlich, and on the other, Mr Minister. That's what you said. And then all the story that's going on here today. What you're trying to convince us is no big deal, which is why I'm going to vote in favour of this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u211	Thank you. Member Matthew Lahovnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I'm going to support this decision myself because it's 25 shells without any configuration, and that's not all the configuration. This is also the result of the invitation to tender. The second fact is that there has also been great damage to the Slovenian economy, especially on this basis, because the argument on the involvement of the Slovenian industry in this project has been adopted on the basis of statements, non-binding statements, I stress, non-binding statements by Slovenian directors. So any other manufacturer could, for example, collect, I don't know, 50, 100, 150 statements from different directors d.o.o.- where they would plant roses about jobs, and the other thing is whether this is realized or not, there are no guarantees. Such an approach is not methodologically appropriate, with such a large sum that it is extremely harmful and raises various doubts, so of course I will also support this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u213	Thank you. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u214	Thank you. The amendment notes that a harmful contract has been concluded. And if someone's hiding something, because it's definitely a cover-up, that's what we're doing today, and not just today, we figure out if you're hiding something, it means you have a reason for it. The reason for concealing, pushing, or even lying is usually bad conscience. And what bad conscience means and what unsettled business means, military business, we know, but I do not need to quote Mrs. Remembrance Hribar, who warns that if they remain unresolved, a healthy Slovenian space policy cannot be maintained; certain interstate relations cannot even be regulated. I will support the amendment, certainly also on behalf of one of the commentators on the website, which says, "I am perfectly clear," B. J. signed, "that this purchase of armor will be a disaster for the history books." And he also said, "I've been watching for three hours," until the transmission was interrupted, "I've been watching for three hours and now I understand why we don't have a third parliamentary programme yet. J. J.'s not stupid. That would be a shot to his knee."
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u215	Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u216	I will support this amendment because this amendment proves, of course, to be very problematic if someone who happened 13 years ago is transferring something to today's world. 13 years ago, Mr Janez Janša was Minister of Defence, Mr Jože Zagozhen, the current Chairman of the Gorenje Supervisory Board was Chief of Logistics and Mr Črnkovic was Assistant Chief of Logistics. Now Mr Črnkovic, as Head of the Procurement Service of the Ministry of Defence, now called Rotis d.o.o., convinced Mr Erjavac that he would buy from someone something that Mr Erjavec actually does not know. These two gentlemen, of course, convinced Gorenje d.d. Through the President of the Supervisory Board, they will set up a warehouse in the deleted area in the middle of Scotland for the assembly of armoured personnel. All of this is harmful for Slovenian taxpayers because the matter will cost more than 63 billion, for people in Koroška, because they will lose jobs and for the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr President of the Government is overseeing all of this. Mr. Janez Janša did not forget how he used to buy weapons, and apparently he can continue to do so. If you support this decision, Mr Janez Janša, as Prime Minister of the Government, has the opportunity to examine the contract to determine that the contract does not have a relationship with the two points identified, that the matter is harmful, much more expensive, and this contract is repealed. Mr Erjavec, if this amendment is well confirmed and accepted by you, then, of course, these three gentlemen will do it only for their own and not on your own account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u217	Thank you. Before I give my word to my colleague Bevk. Comrade Squeakle, the Minister has no right to vote. Comrade Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u218	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. I will support the decision, which states that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the contract concluded is harmful and calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to reconsider its decision. I don't envy you, Mr. Secretary, today's situation. But I find it strange that you have been abandoned by all the government partners. I see no minister helping you to defend you, no Finance Minister of New Slovenia, no President of the Government, no Minister of Economic Affairs of the Slovenian Democratic Party, who should be sitting there with you now, according to the Government's decision. Only DeSUS in the person of the Minister and President of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Clearly, then, there must be a strong smell that no one would have hoped to come to you in the space reserved for the ministerial assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u219	We can go to the vote. I'm afraid not. We're opening a new round of applications. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. Look, earlier, I proved very clear and verifiable in at least four points that the proponents were telling the truth about us. Anyone who checks that information can be sure of that. However, we have just heard that someone with a bad conscience is on the verge of an untruth. I am grateful to the opposition for this recognition, but I only hope that they are aware that their conduct explains and does not excuse him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u221	Member Mitja Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Of course, I will also support this amendment, as I have already expressed in my debate the view that the contract and the deal have been concluded intransparency and is therefore harmful. And I reiterate this, and in so doing, that in this way, both after domestic management and payment, after the unnecessary payment of such large commissions, which is, on the one hand, excessive spending of citizens' money and citizens' money and, on the other hand, the tightening of the belt of soldiers to those to whom the armoured men are intended is certainly not in the interest of this country, is not in the interest of this army, which you are leading or belonging to your department. And what you're doing is essentially reducing, not reducing, abolishing the mission and mission of the army, but putting the army in a role, turning it into a haven for untransparent and corrupt spending of money, and not for the fault of the soldiers, on your own account, a respected minister. But worst of all, we've heard that before, not because of your guilt, because you're just doing things that are being directed by others in the back. That is why I support the amendment and I will vote for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u223	Thank you. Member Boyan Rugelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Today, the opposition has set itself a very difficult task. He has been apologizing to the Minister in some way, but at the same time he is trying to point to the Prime Minister of the Government, who has proposed this good minister. Of course, such mathematics can't possibly work out for you. That's what I'd say, Mr. Moge. But maybe you should think about asking me a question, and I'll see if anyone answers. Why is this vehicle that has not been selected called the Krapan? I'm from those interviews, and I've been talking to a soldier, and now it's come to mind, and I'll tell you later. And for that very reason, I will not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u225	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 38. (For the vote was 23.)(against 38.) I note that the amendment to the new seventh proposal for a decision has not been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new eighth proposal for a decision. Can we move on to a decision? I see it's a wish to explain your voice. I'm opening a procedure for explanation. Here you go. Only Bevk has the word. Member Boyan Rugelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u226	Thank you very much. I didn't support the previous amendment, of course I won't. Look, I remembered so symbolically that this vehicle could have the name Krapan because one of the soldiers explained to me that if you wanted to replace one of the wheels on this vehicle, you should be as strong as Krapan or at least four soldiers had to change. One soldier can do that on Patria. I think that, as far as technical matters are concerned, which must also be very important in such a decision, I think that the ministry and also those commissions have acted perfectly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u227	Thank you. All future Members who will apply for explanations of vote, please also indicate how they will vote. We're opening a new procedure. Here you go, please. Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u228	Colleagues and colleagues, look, this amendment is short. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to familiarise the National Assembly with the anticipated costs of upgrading 25 armoured 8x8 in the so-called basic configuration in accordance with the objectives of the Alliance. We're expecting this information all the time. I also call on the Minister not to give the Government the exact number, but to say so at least in a framework manner, if today we would equip these 25 vehicles with all the equipment necessary for reconnaissance tasks, command tasks, vesicular tasks and the rest of what it would cost today, from one finger to another, or at least in a framework. I think we owe it to you to know, as well as to all the Slovenian public, how much more must be added when it comes from the so-called other billions that are available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u229	Thank you. Member Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, if I had the floor now, I should have convinced the coalition Members to vote in favour of this amendment because it concerns exactly what I said earlier. You have announced that 25 vehicles will be equipped with reserved 40 billion, waiting for these vehicles to be equipped. And to my explanation that I will vote in favour of this amendment, I will say this: according to these explanations, the Koroši time will be clarified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u231	Thank you. Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor. You're giving up. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The rag is a good name, but we all know that Krapan is "smuggling" salt for the good of our country. If this Government "stranger" does anything else for the sake of this country, as someone has come forward, it is grief. He worked for the good. And the amendment to the new eighth proposal for a decision as such is acceptable. We know that this government is with this Minister of Defense or this Ministry of Defense has ordered 25 naked armored men. If anyone is responsible for informing themselves of what will happen to these naked armoured men who are not otherwise than I have already said in the debate, as for the rally Paris-Dakar, then this is certainly the National Assembly as an institution, so of course I will absolutely support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u233	Thank you. He's been keeping his mouth shut, and I'm sorry. [[...]] Member Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor. [[You're giving up.]] We can go to the vote. Comrade Aurelio Yuri, you just gave an explanation on your own behalf. I will not give you twice, unless you promise to change your mind in this short period of time, the transition to a vote. [[...]] We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 40. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I also note that the amendment to the new eighth proposal for a decision is not adopted. However, we are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for decisions. We're voting. I'm breaking up. I am opening the procedure for explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. Member Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u234	One does not know whether to protest whether to cry or what to do, but the moment it comes to Parliament that it prevents itself from getting acquainted with the things he has to supervise, which he has been given, entrusted to him by the electorate, then it is very bad. And this amendment, which was rejected, would really be so benign and absolutely necessary, and that is what happens. And how can I, in fact, now support these proposals for conclusions, especially if I look at the fourth proposal for a decision? Read it for yourself. I have kindly asked on the committee the members of the SDS committee who have apparently advocated this, but Mr Yelen of DeSUS does not want them to explain what this fourth decision actually means. It didn't work. We just proposed even an amendment to fix it, to improve it. It didn't work. Of course, he didn't say anything because he couldn't, and I'm not going to repeat what wasn't on the board. But if you look at this conclusion, obviously someone wrote it just to write it and to reject those conclusions that say: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to familiarize the National Assembly with the anticipated costs of upgrading, etc. "Yeah, what else should the National Assembly do? You also say in other conclusions that this is absolutely not necessary because you know all this, of course this is understandable and because this was already agreed in 2004. No, once again, as you write here in these conclusions, it was not agreed or decided in 2004. So for Mr Žnideršić, who signed this, both for Mr Tank, the President and Mr Horvat. This was not decided in 2004 because the programme was not adopted for 2005-2010. This was not adopted in 2004 but in 2005. How can you take something that just doesn't hold? At least correct this by holding that it will correspond to the facts and dates you have written yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u235	Thank you. Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u236	We will not support these conclusions, in which you can also write that the water is dry. This is no problem, you have a majority to vote on, and the water will still be wet. The funny thing is, when we find out that you're scared of even the demand or the expectation that the government will tell you how much it's going to cost to upgrade the 25 pieces. This means telling the public that you don't care whether it's 600,000 euros or 15 million euros. However, you do not care, it will be decided when these 25 vehicles are available and will have to be equipped. Today, the attitude toward this cost is indifferent. Of course, that indicates irresponsibility on your part. In this regard, you propose and also note that the Minister has not deceived the public. Part of the public is being misled. Even today, the signatories, who are part of the public, are 39 of us, we are not convinced that we have been properly informed or that we have misunderstood, but we have simply found and proved once again that the Minister, with the assurances he gave to the opposite, even in the controversy with the disclosure of the media, has, of course, deceived us. Today you can also find that we are not aware that he did the right thing, but still part of the Slovenian public remains informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u237	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? We are moving on to the procedure for applications for explanations. Here you go. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u238	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Mr President! Of course, I will vote against these decisions because part of the public is being misled, and not only part of the public, but also obviously part of the Members, particularly that part of the Members who think that the Minister has not been misleading. These enlightenments brought to us by the minister and his team are coming, as I said before, in drops. Yesterday they knew nothing, today Gorenje promises to set something up, but Gorenje has also promised many things in the Rippers that it will put up, and now as the worst horsemaker sells this land. Make sure it doesn't make you feel sorry for yourself. We have information that another vehicle will be available by the end of December by the end of this year. I'm interested in which December you thought, December 31st or 231, or how you count when necessary. Basically, there's a lot of smell in these things, not just "man" things, but some kind of sulphur. The statement that their man didn't get the job should end "but yours". It ends like, "He didn't get our man, but even more our man," says the one in Class A, not Class B. The Minister of Erjavac's concern for his own chair to be maintained, of course, also proves his giving of information - slowly, every so little time, and all that was is actually just an excuse. An excuse that is truly transparent, but in the basic sense of that word - completely transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u239	Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u240	I myself will not support the proposals for conclusions, because it is simply not true that the Minister did not mislead the National Assembly and the public. The Minister deceived the National Assembly and the public because the contract was not concluded in accordance with the tendering conditions. The tendering conditions, in the report of the Minister to the Commission on Budgetary Control and other public finances, were clearly stated that the contract would be concluded by providing 2,240 jobs. That's not guaranteed. And, Minister, on 24 October, you received a letter from the ruling coalition confirming that you are currently informing the Commission on budgetary and other public finances about the procedure for purchasing armoured vehicles, at least after the final conclusion of the contract and so on. You didn't do that, Mr. Secretary. I expect that now that you have relaxed yourself a little after today's meeting, you will fulfil these commitments, the conclusions of the National Assembly and thus ensure that we will see how the procurement procedures and the use of resources in the defence sector are carried out. Why are we in Rotis d.o.o. suddenly acquisition service of the Ministry of Defence and why we have in Gorenje d.d. the so-called facility of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia? The proposed conclusions mean that the Minister acted well for the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, the truth is the opposite. The Minister acts to the detriment of the Slovenian economy, to the detriment of employees in Koroška, to Gorenje, especially shareholders of Gorenje, who will suffer this, and of course to the detriment of directly taxpayers, because it is obvious that these armored persons will be in pain and stand much more than the Minister here in the National Assembly has claimed. Therefore, the National Assembly cannot conclude that everything is all right, but only the National Assembly, acting in accordance with the principles and in accordance with the will of the supreme trader in this business, Mr Janez Janša, can find out.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u241	Thank you. Member Mitja Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues! It is not my view that I am assessing the questionability and necessity of this business, which we have heard about before. But it is up to me, of course, to judge, and it is also my duty to see whether the business has been carried out properly. It is also my duty to point out the recklessness and imprudentness of this purchase. We must also draw attention to the damage suffered by the Slovenian economy. I must draw attention to the missed opportunities that the Slovenian economy has not received, and I must point out that there will be so many and so many jobs. For the fact is that much more work would be done, with much more money, which unfortunately we have to spend on weapons, now goes abroad instead of staying at home. I can conclude by stating that this business was carried out domestically, very domestically. That's why I'm going to make my point at home. Something stinks in here, something really stinks. And as long as the minister hides behind the business secret of a foreign company and makes up different excuses, it'll smell like more.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u244	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I must say that, at least here you will attach to me, colleagues, also from the position that the National Assembly consists of 90 Members elected by the people. We have chosen the government as Members with this, I will say, the priority we have. This government played on the side of the armory with 63 billion taxpayers' money, not a kilo of potatoes. With 63 billion! And the third decision of the second set says, "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia invites the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to inform, if necessary, about activities related to the purchase, manufacture and supply of medium-sized armoured vehicles, etc. "We ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, in the National Assembly take the authority to be informed. We depend on whether the government or the Minister of Defence, who represents the Government here, will wake up the good will and will say, but today I have a feeling that I have something to inform you about, or I do not have that feeling and I will not inform you because "something like the Krapan I'm smuggling". But we take that authority. We have been chosen by the people, and we take this authority for granted. We're independent under the Constitution, unless some of us are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u245	I see there's a desire for a new circle. Here you go. Stanislav Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u246	Thank you so much for saying that. I didn't support the amendments to the conclusions. Understandably, they were held by the opposition's firmness. However, all this government's action, not as much government as the Ministry of Defence, does not deserve a thank-you note on the subject of this extraordinary meeting today. All of this, especially if we were to focus on those 25 armoured men who remained somewhat undefined, would almost be the responsibility of the government to report to the National Assembly. You don't need the National Assembly as a choir, but you should have the Defence Committee. It does not escape me if it is the opposition president, but that the government will decide for itself whether it is necessary or not, I find all that has been said today inappropriate. In addition, all these shells are obtained from the same fund as it was obtained in another Falcon situation. At that time, from today's largest position party, so much manure was said, if it wasn't so much, the current government would be very interested in using this Falcon back, at least during the presidency, but it's hard to drink this manure. However, I cannot support these conclusions and all this work, nor can I: what was the problem when we discussed whether we would align the minimum wage with the predicted increase in prices of living needs or in fact. For those few million, this government of mine was willing to drill into its knees. There is no problem here, however, leaving a completely open question of the cost of equipping those 25 unequipped armoured personnel. That's why I won't support the conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-15-SDZ4-Izredna-26.ana.u247	Thank you. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 38 votes in favour, 23 votes in favour. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I understand that the conclusions are taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We have three sets of mental-voluntary matters ahead of us. First time. We are moving on to the consideration of the draft decision on the discharge of the President and Vice-President and the appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by the Italian and Hungarian national groups. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Mrs Marie Possonec from the office of President and Mr Robert Battelli from the post of Vice-President and the appointment of Mr Robert Battelli as President and Mrs Marie Possonec as Vice-President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the National Communities. We're voting. 61 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of the Vice-President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Finance and Monetary Policy. The motion for a decision was submitted by the independent Member, Dr Matej Lahovnik, for consideration by the assembly. There are no candidates for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Dr. Mate Lahovnik, a member of the parliamentary group of the Liberal Democracy Club, the functions of the Vice-President and the appointment of Mr Mate Lahovnik as Vice-President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Finance and Monetary Policy. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 2. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] Nevertheless, I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and appointment of a member of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. The motion for a decision was submitted by the independent Member, Dr Matej Lahovnik, for consideration by the assembly. There are no candidates for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Dr. Matey Lahovnik, a member of the parliamentary club of the Liberal Democracy Group, a member's function and the appointment of a representative of Dr. Lahovnik as a member of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the Act on the Incompatibilability of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 26th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
