ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please calm down and take your seats. I begin the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by a Member, Mr Anton Anderlič and Dr Mark Pavlih. I invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša to the 1st meeting and, in the event of an extension of the agenda, to the 1st item, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, the representative of the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia to the 16th item, the Ombudsman of Human Rights, Dr. Zdenko Čebašek Travnik to the 17th item, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the candidate for the Constitutional Judges and the Constitutional Judge and the representative of the Council to the 21st item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Skull, do you have a procedural proposal? We're not here yet. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u2	I'll wait, just so you don't miss me.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u3	Okay, I didn't miss you. I did not receive a motion to withdraw the item from the agenda. We are moving on to a proposal to expand the agenda. Do you have a procedural proposal now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u4	Mr. President! Although I would expect you to take the initiative that I gave you in writing to convene the College and discuss how the point currently under way will be discussed. I doubt that this is the right thing to do, so I have come forward with this proposal for extension. It is unacceptable that you, the President, limit the debate between Members and Members, in fact suspend it and leave it to the representatives of the groups. The President of the Government, Mr Janša, in his performances when assessing the situation in Slovenia, also accused the Parliament and, above all, the opposition of being guilty of the country's poor situation and of its poor reputation in the world. The opposition cannot defend itself in Parliament. The Prime Minister can't discuss it. This is an unacceptable move that you have made and I ask you to reconsider these matters. If Parliament supports the agenda, it must also support the debate. Without discussion, it will not be possible to see any of what the Prime Minister is explaining in the media, on television and on radio stations, holding and not holding. Without this, of course, it is not possible to vote properly on the confidentiality. I think you're asking this institution a serious question when you don't allow a debate, and you don't allow parliamentarians to respond to the evidence they're making. For those of you who don't remember, let me say that at the time of the debate on Drnovsk's confidentiality, this debate lasted a bad two days. The Rules of Procedure were, of course, different, but it does not prohibit this debate either. The trustee's Institute means to verify the arguments in the debate and then vote. Prime Minister Janša, who should defend himself today, is then [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] He performed 14 times. [[...]] Those who attack, do not let them perform once. I think it's a big scandal for this house. Mr President, it is up to you to either convene the College, or to have an extraordinary session, if you think that there is no other way to do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u5	Thank you. Mr Školč, this is not a procedural proposal, but for the public's sake, let me say the following. As an old MP, you should know what the Rules of Procedure say. In the event of a resignation in the National Assembly, there is no debate, not vote, but only an explanation of the applicant. In the case of a confidential person, this is in the event that someone proposes his resignation, in the case of a confidential person, in the National Assembly there is only an explanation of the proposer and a vote. However, in the case of interpolation, there is a presentation of the proposer and a debate and a vote. You provide an example of Mr Drnovska. At that time, Mr Drnovšek tied a confidential person to a certain point in the agenda, with a certain law. And the debate was about the law. So much for that. We are moving on to a proposal to expand the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly, the agenda be extended by a request for a vote on the confidence of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Members of the parliamentary groups would like a word? You will also have the opportunity to procedurally, only first of all do representatives of the groups have the opportunity to speak on this proposal, because this is a procedural proposal - an extension of the agenda, gentlemen. I am opening an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Anyone who wants to sign up. Mr. Lakhovnik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, when the College decided on the agenda on Friday, we also decided to place a vote of confidence on the President of the Government. It is a vote of confidence and a vote of resignation, and we cannot agree with the previous interpretation. The legal interpretation that we heard at that meeting spoke of the fact that it was not possible to discuss this. Later on, when we analysed in the parliamentary group, we found that all the practice so far was different and that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly explicitly allow for a discussion of the confidence of the President of the Government. That is why we have come into a situation where today the President of the Government will have 130 minutes to explain, and the rest of us in the National Assembly will have 45 minutes. And there's only half of it left to the opposition. That is why I really urge you to reconsider here, and that is why we cannot really support such a proposal as today in the Group of Members. However, we cannot support it because it has already been requested to convene a college today, but it has simply been overlooked or neglected. So when we talk about the agenda, we won't support it. But you promised me a word later on about the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u8	Thank you very much. As far as this proposal for enlargement is concerned, I will define myself against it. I will identify myself against this because you, the President, by your interpretation and by your way do not allow Parliament, nor the public, nor the President, to hold a debate on the serious accusations that the President of the Government is spending these days in the Slovenian media. These accusations say that it is impossible to work, that it is impossible to work because of the opposition in Parliament, that it is not possible to work for writing newspapers, that it is impossible to work because different people in Slovenia are supposed to be mutilating the world. They should include people sitting in this Parliament or representing political parties. Look, the fact that someone is accused of not being able to answer is, I will say, quite undemocratic, it is disputed with every logic, finding the truth and also with every logic of understanding the parliamentary mechanism. The Prime Minister himself said last night that he would consider his next steps in terms of the atmosphere that would be in the National Assembly. The atmosphere in the National Assembly is your responsibility right now. You do not allow people to speak openly about things that have been thrown into the media space, but only allow polite statements by the leaders of the parliamentary groups, but the debates do not, and to a large extent later explain how someone will vote. The explanation of how someone will vote is no longer a debate, as it explains how someone will vote, the President of the Government cannot answer any more. So you're going to push him into a situation where he'll listen to these explanations and he won't be able to answer. You're doing him a bad favor. You are doing a poor service to Slovenian Parliamentarianism and therefore I do not think such a poorly prepared point can be placed on the agenda. Of course, there is no reservation if the President of the Government resigns, it is perfectly understandable that if he does not want to, there is no debate and we would not have demanded it either. We would understand such a resignation as some self-critic act of the President of the Government, as self-reflection, that things understand that he can't take them forward. But when he drives things differently, he accuses people, but he doesn't let them defend themselves. And that's not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not intend to argue with a dead letter on paper, i.e. with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If the National Assembly is to adopt an extension today to address Mr Janez Janš's dramatic announcement on the possible withdrawal or the search for a confidant, then I must thank at least the members of the so-called government parties that they supported the National Party's proposal at the College on Friday to allow us at least five minutes of discussion with the parliamentary group compared to 130 minutes at the disposal of Mr Janez Janša for his introductory explanation. But I'd like to give you what I think is very important. Firstly, I do not agree either with the National Party's Group of Members or we do not agree with a fellow Školč who says that Mr Janez Janša blames the opposition exclusively. According to our behaviour, after our perception of the daily newspaper last month, two, three, half a year or a year ago, the fact is that the President of the Government blames both pensioners and unions, as well as the media, and we will witness in the coming days the newborns for the situation within the country. However, the fact is that we must be aware that the government, the Government, the Government, which has a majority in Parliament and the Government, has an absolute majority within the executive branch of power. That is why it does not make sense for us to see the National Assembly continue the farce transmitted by Mr Janez Janša in the game and treat this point exclusively as one of the evening points of decision-making. We therefore support, for the first time, that the College should be convened once again in order for the National Assembly to demonstrate autonomy, which, at some declaration level, is also in the words of the President of the Government of Mr Janez Janša, has not decided in the College to allow a debate in Parliament on confidentiality or non-trust. The fact is that finding a confidant outside the will of the people is pointless, the fact that you have decided that ruling parties and that it is only some kind of marketing show, how to fix our election result or how to correct the outcome of the referendum when it does not give what our citizens and our citizens deserve. Therefore, we support that for this point [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] held an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, without limitation of the debate. [[...]] We are opposed to the debate in the National Assembly today, with a time limit of 5 minutes to the parliamentary group. This is not an untrustworthy woman to whom the President of the Government would go before citizens and citizens, but this is only, once again, a farce that is prepared in advance, both at the outcome of the vote, such as the whole farce of all those who send possible or suspected [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] messages abroad. [[...]] The proposal after enlargement in the Slovenian National Party will not be supported. Once again, I express my will, my hope and my desire that you call upon the College before you decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik, did you want a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u12	Thank you very much. I would like to base my procedural proposal. Given the fact that there is no debate at this point and a strange situation has arisen where, of course, the President of the Government will have 130 minutes at his disposal, and all the others in the National Assembly 45 minutes, of course, is obvious asymmetry. The most beautiful thing about this asymmetry was what the Prime Minister of the Janša government himself showed yesterday, in an interview he had on POP TV where he first said that he would have the opportunity to discuss MEPs and members of the opposition, and then he quickly appeared and said, "to explain his opinion or position."'For he immediately remembered that on Friday the College decided that there was no debate. We find it unacceptable that there is no debate on such an important item in the agenda. Especially because, Mr President, you know that in some parliamentary groups we have proposed that we have a special item or special meeting of the National Assembly on this subject, which would allow for a normal debate, which is deserved not only by the Slovenian public, but also by the President of the Government. This would be the easiest way to clear up all open issues. The Prime Minister of the Government has also repeatedly said that he wants to clear up open issues, to hear the opposition's opinion on how it will act in the future to clear things up. In a way, we are now in a situation where there will be no debate. In the Group of Members, we truly believe that it is very unusual for everyone in the National Assembly to have one person on one side, Mr President of the Government, to be able to discuss for more than two hours, all of them together, all 90 minutes and 45 minutes. And this in some way is not correct, it is disputed with some healthy parliamentary logic that we are Members of the people, that we must give our opinion also in the debate, and it is also contradicted by the logic of the institutions of the confidant or non-trust which is of paramount importance, and it is right that they have everything [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Members and Members of Parliament are given the opportunity to explain their views. [[...]] Therefore, on behalf of the Group of Members, I really request a 15-minute recess and I suggest that you convene a consultation of the leaders of the Group of Members to discuss how to proceed or how to ensure a debate. Before the vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Lahovnik, there is no interruption before the vote on the agenda. We could have known that, too, after so many years. I therefore conclude the debate on the proposal for enlargement and move on to a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on that proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There's no explanation for the voice! There are 74 Members and Members present, for 56, for 16. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. Mrs Žgajner Tavš, it has been for some time or for some time since we said that when the vote is under way, there is no longer a complaint about the operation of the voting apparatus, so I would like to warn you and ask you to see if the light is on fire. The assembly will consider the proposal as item 1a of the agenda today at 6 p.m. Mrs Žgajner Tavš, look again before the next vote if the light is on fire, and if not, warn me in time that the technical services will check the operation. I therefore propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as received by reference to the meeting and with the addition adopted. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, is the light on fire? Just nod! Okay, thanks. If you don't burn, please, technical services to check or burn. There's no procedural proposal. Please! We are in the voting phase. I have asked the technical services to view or operate Mrs Žgajner Tavš's voting device. Good. I'll be off in five minutes. We'll continue at 2.30 p.m. At this time, I ask that the functioning of Mrs Žgajner Tavš's voting apparatus be checked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Before continuing the meeting, I should like to inform you that the technical services have identified the flawless functioning of the voting apparatus. I also have a copy of the vote on the enlargement of the agenda, in which I can comfort Mrs Žgajner Tavš that she has voted successfully against. This way we can proceed with the vote. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. The technical services have found that all those who have mentioned voting problems are working. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Pece, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u15	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I really don't think there's any way you've been addressing the Slovenian National Party. I believe that the relationship between the President of the Government - coalition MPs, one [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u16	Mr. Pece, I'm asking if your voting device is working. There are no procedural proposals, no interruptions, we are in the voting phase.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister Janez Janša requests communication from us [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u18	Mrs. Shirca, have you had any trouble with the voting device now? Can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u19	Mr President, I have told you personally about the problems and please, if you also check my voice, also for history, that I do not agree with the way in which the debate is going and not the debate within today's point. I voted against it, warned that the signs did not confirm it, not mine, not by Mrs Zalokareva. At the same time, I do not agree that in the future you should with your hands or without your voice to take your voice in the National Assembly, and also to women.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u20	Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, I'll give you my word. Is the voting device working? Technical services say yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u21	Thank you very much, President, for letting me speak. But at this point, let me also express some kind of protest over your actions. You know if it is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u22	Well, it's obviously working. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u23	Allow the President to fasten his seatbelt [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u24	We're voting. The vote on the agenda is fully under way. There are 75 Members and Members present and 57 votes against 18. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the agenda of the 33rd meeting of the assembly has been set. I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with the consideration of item 1 of the agenda, which is with questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're moving on to one. At the time of the day of the National Assembly, this is for questions from delegations and delegates. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written notifications from 21 Members and Members within the deadline of business. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2) of Article 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. The following will be answered by the Minister of Health and the Minister of the Environment and Space and the Minister of Finance at the 32nd meeting of the assembly, to which they did not respond due to the absence. It's a Magnificent message. Majda Potrat and Member only Bevk and mag. Milan M. Squeakl, who reported on two questions, will ask the second question when all the Members who have been reported ask one question. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional, new question. I ask Members and Members to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to supplement the reply shall be given by the Member in two minutes. However, the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr Dimitrij Rupel and Minister of Defence Mr Karl Erjavec. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, Minister or Secretary-General of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. You have received a review of the questions sent and initiatives not yet answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be asked by Mr Sašo Pece to the Prime Minister of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! This morning, the so-called implementation phase began, the first phase of the privatisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor. Allow me to introduce the assessment that the privatisation plan is much more appropriate to citizens and citizens than the plan and the implementation of the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. But I personally believe that every single one of us must strive that all, that is to say, users, should be in the form of natural or legal persons, satisfied with better privatisation. Therefore, from this point of view, especially on the basis of lack of transparency or rather on the basis of the alleged embargo on information, allow me to ask you three questions. First time. Rumor has it that individual institutional investors have been selected in advance. From this place I would like to highlight the so-called "road show" or the presentation of the prospectus. The fact is that the so-called commission within the Ministry of Finance, and within the framework of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, only one day has used our country's Republic of Slovenia to present the prospectus, all the other days will take place abroad. Allow me to remind you, however, that the rehabilitation of the banking system took place exclusively in our country. Therefore, allow me to appeal to you that, as future institutional investors, account should be taken of, in particular, domestic institutional investors, let them take the form of economic operators from different fields, and that these are mostly located where the New Credit Bank Maribor is also stationed. Where this is, I probably don't need to stress it, because it already means the name. On the other hand, given that local communities, i.e. those elements in society many times, and rightly so, highlighted the interest, the desire to enter into the ownership of the said bank, I appeal that, in the context of the second phase of privatisation, you transfer the state share to the Municipality of Maribor and all those municipalities that have so far built and established the said bank. From this place, let me put it again, for the first time, that the model that was basically proposed [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] by the bank management, more positive. [[...]] Secondly, Mr Janez Janša, you were personally signed first in 1998 under the Banking Act, where you suggested that even 80% of the bank should go in the form of certificates to citizens and citizens. Therefore, I regret that Mr. Bajuk has only taken into account two of the four national party proposals after further dispersion of ownership within 24%, but has failed to take into account [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the national interest that the price for domestic natural persons should be lowered to the value of the book value. [[...]] In the case of the bank, I believe that you will agree with me, especially following domestic, Slovenian [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you so much for asking. First of all, I personally regret that the proposal that we have drafted in the 1990s, that at least part of the funds that citizens and citizens in Slovenia have invested in the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks have been distributed to them in the form of shares, was not adopted at the time when it was possible. Today the situation is different, at which time Slovenia went to the European Union, took over the regulation, ownership changed. A large part of the largest state bank was sold to foreign banks at that time, and things were different in 2004 when this government began to do so. In these circumstances, we are pursuing the objectives that can be achieved within the existing European and Slovenian banking or public financial system and, at least to the extent that it is possible to influence those who are Slovenian banks, after being completely exploited in the early 1990s, to recover a certain proportion. Just as this government has made sure that those who have paid disproportionately high contributions, personal contributions when acquiring telephone connections or investing in telecommunications receive this or receive it back, we are also trying to follow the principle of justice within a framework of economic efficiency. For this reason, this concept of sale of shares of the New Credit Bank Maribor was also adopted, where in the first tranche, when 49% of its ownership is sold, every citizen or citizen of that country, I repeat a citizen or citizen of that country, can buy a certain number of shares on the basis of the possibility of equal treatment, the same share, without being discriminated against. Those who retain the ownership of these shares for at least one year will receive an additional share free of charge or in some way obtain a 10% discount. In this first tranche, up to 24% of the bank's share will be sold, and approximately the same share will be sold to institutional investors. We expect that most of these investors from Slovenia, because the interest is great, at least so show research, and that there will be a particular interest within Slovenia in the region where the bank is established. This second part of the sale is managed in accordance with international standards and in order, for the first time, to strengthen the capital potential of the bank and, secondly, to actually start operating with some transparent, clear and efficient ownership structure. There is no fear that even when it comes to institutional investors, those who are interested could not participate, no discrimination could be exercised here. The same applies to sales to natural persons. Also in this second part, when it comes to institutional investors, natural persons may participate if they sign up and register. There will be no repetition of the story, which was actually a farce when the Ljubljana Bank sold the minimum share and when it was sold in one second or in half a second. That government had nothing to do with it, it was the bank's capable experts who did it themselves, so you don't associate what's happening now with that process.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u29	Thank you. You want a supplement. Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u30	I believe, however, that it is not for me to say that I am linking the procedures with the New Credit Bank or comparing them with the procedures, which I agree with you that the farce was compared to the New Ljubljana Bank. From this place, however, since you said that in 24%, which was supposed to be provided to institutional investors or well-educated investors, I am interested in: Why has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agreed to offer a prospectus in the Republic of Slovenia only one day, and this is today, and this is only in the Municipality of Maribor and the Municipality of Ljubljana, in all other days it takes place in the UK? The ratio is therefore 1 to 10 to the detriment of our country to the Republic of Slovenia. Secondly, when you speak of institutional investors, it should be pointed out that the so-called privatisation commission, which is also a member of Mr Žiga Andolšek, an integral part of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance is very successful in lobbying foreign institutional investors and thus causes them to be selected within this commission mainly by foreign institutional investors. From this city, therefore, allow me at least to be a messenger of the Municipality of Maribor and of the surrounding municipalities, which today called on the Ministry of Finance in two areas. First, to include in institutional investors a large part of those investors who work and operate in the area of Maribor and the surrounding area. Secondly, what I ask you to answer to be included in the preparation and in the implementation of the second phase of the privatisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor transfers 25% of the shares plus 1 share, that is, the part that the Government plans to keep in its management rights, to those of the local communities that actually built this bank. At the same time, we must be aware that this is still the property of citizens and citizens, and I think it would be the right final approach. However, I thank the Minister for Finance for accepting my offer after an increase of 15% to 24% [[...]] [[Excluding microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u32	What you said the last time, it didn't happen. I don't mind if you heard when you said it was your initiative. As the saying goes, "When there's success, there's a lot of bots," but I don't mind. The fact is, it's a good solution. It is known who has proposed and accepted it, and we are pleased with any support in this direction. As far as domestic relations are concerned, foreign investors. This is a quarter share that collects offers from so-called institutional investors. In the interests of this country, in the interests of the taxpayers of this country, it is in the interest of the economy that we also receive fresh capital from outside. Absolutely. It is not about majority ownership, it is not about any management option, it is about institutional investors within the framework of quarterly ownership, where the majority of domestic and some foreign investors are likely to be. But even if we were all strangers inside that doesn't mean that this bank is being sold, that management will go somewhere else. They will invest those who think it is a good bank and that their investment will be eloquent. From this point of view, it will be an equal approach, and it cannot be different, given the regulation under which we work. As far as the second part of the privatisation is concerned. When it comes to the remaining part, the State intends, and this was unanimously accepted, there were no objections anywhere, in direct and indirect ownership, to retain only a quarter share plus one share in order to have an impact on strategic decisions. In this regard, there is some national consensus in Slovenia, and in the framework of the privatisation of the rest of the work, the options you are talking about are said to be working together by local communities as agreed, following an analysis of how this first privatisation will take place. So these proposals are accepted, and we will treat them with good faith. Within three months of the first part of privatisation, this will turn out to be, it is said in this mandate, and then we will try together to choose the best possible way.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u33	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u34	You have concluded well-intentionedly, including all the proposals made by the Slovenian National Party have been well-intentioned and I believe that the work of the National Assembly is also fully well-intentioned. However, I would like to point out and wish that tomorrow, in the framework of the votes, the National Assembly decides to hold a broader debate on this subject. I have made the same procedural proposal four times over the past four years. Unfortunately, he was always rejected. I would like the National Assembly to discuss with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia what will happen with the second phase of privatisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor. Therefore, I do well to assess that we are all working together in the interests of this country, so it is also right to work in the interest of the New Maribor Credit Bank, to work in the interest of individual local communities and thus to pursue our common goal. And as you've already established, yes, individual local communities want their property. And in the second phase, given that they were released in the first phase. Even in the first phase, there were a few things that would make sense to fix. In particular, number 1 is a matter of transparency. But you yourself mentioned institutional investors. We all know that the 24% share will be divided into about 10 institutional investors. And the fact is that it is still important for those institutional investors to be among those involved in the rehabilitation of the banking system. And that's our purpose. If we have Slovenian companies, which on the one hand are borrowers from this financial institution and, on the other hand, they are also the same companies as the components of the financial assets transactions, then it is right that they have the right to so-called participation. However, I am afraid, and from here my fear arises, however you want to call it later, that Slovenian institutional investors with foreign institutional investors will not be equally placed, especially on the basis of the foundations and criteria that have been drawn up today. Once again, unfortunately, the road show takes place in the Republic of Slovenia only today, at the same time in the Municipality of Maribor and the Municipality of Ljubljana. Tomorrow they will begin in Britain and will continue to do so until the end of the presentation. That is why I ask you, President of the Government, and this time if you tell your Members or ruling Members that a meaningful debate on the second stage, on the city of Maribor, is about a wider region in our country to be held in the National Assembly in a transparent manner. Thank you very much in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u35	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Pečet to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the context of the vote on Thursday, 22 November 2007. The following question will be asked by Mr Školč to the Prime Minister of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u36	Mr President, you have shocked the Slovenian public over the past week by saying that an organised campaign against Slovenia and Slovenian interests is taking place both in our country and abroad. You said that in the countries of the European Union and also in the world they went from Slovenia to messages that paint the situation in Slovenia as if it were Belarus or some comparable country. Two days later, you continued that there is no problem if journalists or any other associations accept the same positions as the opposition, the problem is that the untruths, I stress the non-truths that represent Slovenia's grave malignment, are sent to the world and to the European Union at a time when it is actually Slovenia's worst harm. You will all agree that this is an extremely serious accusation, but with your finger, you did not exactly point out who you were thinking of. That is why I believe that the National Assembly is a suitable place to name all of these blasphemers of Slovenia, who are from the National Assembly and who are from other institutions. The other kind of question, which logically relates to this claim that it is a matter of malignment of Slovenia and harmful activity to the detriment of our country, raises a logical question: Does this fall within the context of the 170th to 174th articles of the Penal Code, and will you also draw any consequences from this title? It is known that when you engage someone, you are resentful and do not choose resources. That wouldn't be unusual, so I think it's important that you answer the name that those people who are supposed to be afraid of, I'll say, your long [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] fingers at the moment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u38	Thank you for asking. I'm going to hear the pitiful intensification in it. I understand that people who spend their whole lives on budget don't understand real life and then get carried away. As far as muddying is concerned abroad and as far as the specifics are concerned, I suggest you open a website that has the address www.peticijazupercensura.com. On this website sponsored by the Slovenian Journalists' Association, one of the journalists' associations in this country, you will find the text and you will also find the entire chronology of what happened with this text. Responses to this text from abroad, including all signatories written in the keyboard and in the manuscript. I don't need to explain anything because it's self-explanatory. Also on some other websites that exist, at least in Slovenia, by those who have launched this action, they are organized to collect reactions to this action. After 10 September this year, information was sent out from Slovenia, which expanded practically to all news addresses, which also have an e-mail address, virtually to all the official institutions of the European Union, even wider. This information says: "We accuse Slovenian journalists and journalists of the Prime Minister of the Government of Media Censorship. The Presidency of Slovenia presents a danger to the European Union for the present and future of the European Union with such a government and with such behaviour." This text does not specify any particular case of censorship. Not one single single instance of self-censorship, just heavy, flat-rate accusations. These same accusations have also been made at home in political debates; they are very precisely defined in the assessment of the situation of the party of the Social Democrats. It's basically the same text, the same terminology. However, these accusations were not sent to Europe as political charges because they could then be debated at a political level and this would probably not have done such harm. They were sent as an appeal to an expert association that was suppressed, although the text is the same as the text of a political assessment by one of the opposition parties. This was not sent to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or to Parliament, or to the Commission for Petitions in the National Assembly, but was first sent abroad. Only after it worked was it sent to the government. I got this letter on September 26th. However, the case was written on September 10th. And this letter says: The petition we are sending to you has already been sent to more than 300 addresses abroad, including foreign heads of state of the EU Member States, international organisations and many foreign media. The signatures under the petition are still being collected." Here is only a small part of these publications and accusations against Slovenia in foreign newspapers. On the website of one of the logbooks where all employees signed this petition, there is an article entitled Milky responses at home, burny reactions abroad. At home this text has practically not been published. There was no discussion about him. This was something that was sent abroad at a time when everyone wrote about Slovenia as the future EU leader country, with the aim of planning the government's discredit. But abroad, this government, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is also your government.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u39	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u40	I assumed that Mr President would not say more than we have already heard. But after that petition, I didn't even ask. As far as I'm aware, the signatories to this petition are not from the political sphere. While the different assessments affecting the image of Slovenia are also made in other institutions. And I ask the President: Who then, for example, reported to the State Department that it was said that it was worrying that in Slovenia the judicial backlogs, indirect influence on the media, discrimination and violence against Roma and homosexuals and discrimination had been eliminated? Who gave such information to the United Nations and Commissioner Thomas Hammarberg regarding the violation of the rights of the Roma community? Who, in his opinion, has given the Board of Executive Directors of the International Monetary Fund information to propose that Slovenia finally do something to contain inflationary pressures and achieve balanced growth. These are all things from before September. Who gave IPI information, who gave, last but not least, information to Commissioner Almunja on inflation. These are all things that have been recorded outside and placed in a bad light the policy of our government. But I didn't see this petition writing anything about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u42	So, honourable Member, there is no one here to discuss inflation. We are together in the European Union, which we will be leading over the next six months with countries with three times more inflation than Slovenia. We are in the Eurogroup with countries that no longer meet the Maastricht criteria as one; Slovenia does not meet one inflationary at the moment. Those countries that do not meet many others are the great European countries, the members of the European Monetary Union, which not only exceeded one Maastricht criterion a few years ago, did not meet practically any. That's normal. We're part of this family. Everyone's being criticized for failing to do something, that's no problem. The problem is that someone from a country about his own country is spreading such a lie - that in a country that will preside over the European Union, Roma are imprisoned in camps to violate human rights, to commit violence against the media, without any specific case being mentioned. And, firstly, this was a political assessment, written in the documents of political parties, and then this spread as a civil society assessment across Europe. And if it is now said that there is no policy among those who are signed under this petition - well, by the way, there are many former politicians there, because some can quietly move from profession to policy and are still experts, others cannot. But it doesn't even matter. Just now, the former Minister of the Interior of the SD has been elected Rector of the University; if this were the reverse, this would be a strong politicisation, now it is a completely normal professional decision. Well, that's just by the way. The fact is that these assessments were first political and then perfidious, as if they were the views of a civil society, spread across Europe. I had a press conference after a meeting with my colleague, the Prime Minister of one European country, the first question was why we locked 6,000 Roma in a ghetto or camp in Slovenia. All the time I had to spend explaining that there are about so many Roma in Slovenia, that the whole government deals with one Roma family to help her, and that there are no camps. This came from Slovenia abroad.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u43	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u44	We seem to be misinterpreting here and, above all, Mr President is somehow not responding to what he is asked, but to what he is not asked. There is no need to explain in this house that we have adopted the euro, that we are in the Union, etc. This is what we all know - like me and him - most of our lives cost the budget as it says. It would be embarrassing if we didn't know. He is the one who casts a bad light on Slovenia abroad by accusing the opposition and journalists of spreading lies. But when I ask him who gave the data to the European Central Bank, he doesn't want to answer - if inflation is not a problem. When the Board of Governors of the IMV adopts a position - this is not a problem for him. When part of the financial public is scandalized over the conduct of the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia - this is not a problem for him. When people write about problems with the mosque, that's no problem for him. It's not a problem of media freedom, it doesn't tell who gave the Americans that information, etc. I would call on him, as he is brave and precise, if, for all the data going into the world from Slovenia, he blames the opposition for not referring to two documents, one of the SDs and the other signed by 571 journalists, but that it is a little more accurate because in the world they will rightly think that in Slovenia we have a government and a prime minister who is not capable of dealing with the things that are happening with the issues that are emerging with the critics who are on the table. That's basically the problem. However, I agree that, like him, he and everyone in this Chamber would probably pose "fatally" if he were asked about the concentration camp for 6,000 Roma. I'm pretty sure that's what he's talking about. That's what he's talking about. If he has gone, please, at least let him say that in the debate I propose. Otherwise, let it stop with these cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u45	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Školč to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the context of the vote on Thursday, 22 November. Mr Potrč will now ask the Prime Minister the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government! The government crisis you triggered by your statement of possible resignation of the Government will, I hope, end with today's vote on the confidentiality. May I point out in these actions that in the face of your threat of resignation, in my opinion, few people have believed that you are honestly offering a resignation because you cannot rule successfully because of the criticism of the opposition. The critical opposition cannot undermine a successful government. There are probably fewer who believe that you are offering the European Union's rule and presidency to the opposition because you are convinced that it is better than the current government. The reasons for your threat of resignation were, therefore, another: you have found that the support of the electorate and the electorate has fallen so far that the problems of the next elections can only be solved by an exceptional move that would lead to a crisis of governance and put into question the Presidency of Slovenia in particular to the European Union, and for all of this, you have been blamed by the coalition, especially the Social Democrats, who are your most competitive party at this moment. I hope that this has failed because you yourself have found a way out of the resignation to vote on a confidential matter that is a matter of the ruling coalition, and I believe so are the predictions that the ruling coalition will vote for the government's confidence. So now that it is clear that this is a vote on a confidential one, which is an absolute question of relations within the coalition, and we can expect that a confidential one will be voted and restored by partners, Mr President, I ask you: Will you now devote yourself, once again, to the tasks of your country and the preparations for the presidency, or should we expect any further moves that will without need bring political instability to Slovenia, divert the attention of the Government from the tasks within its competence, and try to critically demonstrate the activities of the opposition, which are its normal functioning and integral part of democratic relations in parliamentary democracy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u48	I have a long list here. I won't read it. On it are those who are on Sunday, some earlier, and especially on Monday they called on this government to resign. Also some who sit in this hall in opposition benches. On Tuesday, when we analysed the situation, I said that we take matters seriously and that all options are open, including the resignation of the Government. I didn't say the government would step down, I just ordered that option. The next day, politicians who had said a day earlier that the government had to step down began to say that the withdrawal would be an irresponsible act and suddenly we had a frightened opposition - not a frightened government, a frightened opposition - when we announced this possibility. Then I publicly invited the opposition if they think that things are really so bad to form a new government, we have promised constructive support for all European and other national projects, or to join this coalition and the government in strengthening it. In one hour the rejection came, you said, "We don't want to form our government, we don't want to go into this coalition. The government is weak, so it must rule." That was about the answer. So, I don't know where the hoax was. In such a situation, I then decided to check on the confidant in this National Assembly. This confidant is not bound by the situation in the coalition, nor is it bound by the situation caused by the opposition in that country by its fierce parliamentary struggle. Finally, you are the only opposition that has opposed the direct transfer of the meetings of the National Assembly. There has never been such a case around the world that the opposition has been against it. So, it's no problem because the opposition in this country, where 570 pointed feathers every government action is waiting for a knife and if that's not enough, the government is still abroad, it doesn't have to do much. And that's what's happening. The intonation of your question, frankly, I reject as perfunctory. You have every possibility that if you think it's so bad, set up a new government, that we will support them in all the country-based projects, but not claim in the same breath that the government is the worst possible, and on the other hand demand that it work normally further. You've changed rumors three times in one week.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u49	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that - not for the first time - on a very clear question from Mr President of the Government we did not get an answer, but he was talking about completely different things. I asked him, and I repeat: Can we count on the government crisis to end today's vote? We are convinced that there were no reasons why he referred to them in his letters and in his public communications and who flew to the opposition to request his resignation. I think that Mr Janša, who has been in opposition with his party for many years, knows that it is normal for the opposition to act, to point out the weaknesses of the government in accordance with his views, and that it is not customary for the criticism expressed by the opposition to be regarded by the coalition government as the reason why she should give and demand a vote on the confidential person. This has no direct relationship and in the system of parliamentary democracy is a vote on a confidential matter primarily of relations within coalition parties in which the Prime Minister wants to consolidate his position or to show the public that his position is strong and strong. You can both do it, it is both your right and your responsibility, but of course it also has consequences for the situation in a society that has not been blamed by the opposition. That was my or our question and the expected answer. We have received a response again in a completely different direction, talking about what the opposition is guilty of and what the opposition should do. Please also consider what tasks are and how to complete your tasks successfully. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u52	So, what is normal for every opposition in parliamentary democracy? It is normal for the opposition to criticize the government to try to make itself better, it is normal for it to offer its programs and try to gain voter confidence. But it is very abnormal that if the government offers its resignation, the opposition suddenly changes its speech and says that the government must not give up. And I've never met opposition like this before, and she's not. First everything is bad, then this government must rule in every way. The fact that we should finally start dealing with the problems, honourable Member, even last week, when the opposition was primarily concerned about what to do now, this government not only acted normally, but acted super-averagely intensively. On Monday we came from an official visit to China, where we opened the door to the Slovenian economy on this largest market in the world, on the same day we went to visit the lower Podravje, to the region and carried it out in full the next day, including the humanitarian football game in the evening, nothing fell off. On Wednesday, we were on our first official visit to Britain, in the history of this country, with very important discussions on the challenges ahead. Thursday was a regular meeting of the Government, at which we completed the package of adoption of provincial legislation at government level - a strategic, historically important project; in addition, a number of other decisions were taken, none of which was due to the situation you say was the government crisis. If there was anything last week, it was a crisis of opposition visible from space.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u53	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr President, I propose that we hold a debate in the National Assembly on the response of the President of the Government. At first, I did not think to propose this because I expected that, at the point of the agenda, when we talk about the Government's confidentiality, it would be possible to hold the whole debate. However, because there are so many distorted explanations and because the debate on this by the Liberal Democracy is already proposed, I think it is right to propose it further and to include the Government's replies in the basis of the debate; especially because if the government's functioning is as great as that described by Mr President, it was last week and probably again, then there is really no reason for this government to be threatened by the normal functioning of the opposition. This is what we do not know, and the opposition has the right to its views, even the right to publish its views on its websites, and if this is wrong for the President of the Government, then we do not understand how this Government can work successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u55	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Porč to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the context of the vote on Thursday 22 November. The last question before the Prime Minister of the Government will be put by Mr Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. I say hello to everyone. Social Democrats wrote in their state-of-the-art assessment of the alternative government programme: The ruling coalition, with the help of political - capital connections, has a decisive impact on the programming of daily newspapers and directly and through capital, also has a decisive impact on some other public publications. Journalists concerned about work and existence exercise self-censorship. The media silence on the Government of Opposing and Critical Opinions or sanctioning journalists is a way to account for the government coalition with other thinkers. Journalists, Mr. Šurc and Mr. Zgaga, have turned this into a petition entitled "To counter censorship and political pressure on journalists in Slovenia and, among other things, in this petition, I quote: "We accuse Slovenian journalists and journalists of restricting media freedom by the Prime Minister Janez Janša. The letter concerning censorship and government pressure against journalists has already been received by the presidents of the countries, parliaments and governments of all members of the European Union, a number of NGOs and media institutions around the world. On 1 January 2008, Slovenia will take over the Presidency of the European Union. What will be the messages of the citizens of the European Union if it is chaired by a country that is increasingly self-sufficient to journalists and that strengthens the authoritarian way of ruling at the expense of democracy and media freedom? The Presidency of such a country may be a worrying sign for the present and even more for the future of the European Union." End of quote. This petition was signed by 571 journalists of various media, from Ciciban, Pila - this is the former Pioneer List - to journalists of daily newspapers and others. So I'm actually interested in the following: what are the actual political capital connections in the media from which the signatories come and where censorship and forgiveness, bullying and other alleged pressure on journalists are supposed to take place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u58	The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not have a majority share in any national media, nor does it have such shares in regional media. It has minority ownership through enterprises owned indirectly by the country in Primorski novices - I think I said right - in the regional diary, but it is minority ownership. The majority of ownership in Slovenian media, especially in those with the largest load, was mostly formed before the beginning of this government's mandate. It's clearly politically colored and these colors are not the color of this coalition. It is true that in Slovenia there are some 100 journalists and journalists who are in the so-called free status, who are not regularly employed, who work under contracts that are often subject to capital pressure, but in these media the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has no shares. Some of those who have been signed are also in such a position. In the last few days, we received and received several messages in person, or they approached me and said two. First of all, we didn't know this accusation was going to go abroad. We've been manipulated. And secondly, we had to sign because we're not in a regular working relationship. There was pressure on journalists and journalists, but not on the government side. If this was to clarify the actual problem, then this petition would first be sent to institutions in the Republic of Slovenia, not first abroad. This petition was first sent abroad and this is clearly stated in a letter which subsequently sent this petition to Slovenian institutions. It is said that the purpose was not to have a debate, to clear things up at home, but that the international public, which does not read Slovenian newspapers, which does not know our situation, does not know the capital links, belongs to the misinformation. I have recently read that the government has an influence on the largest daily newspaper in Slovenia, on the work because of the new chief editor of theology. czesh, the government is close to the Church, the editor is a doctorate in the Theological Faculty, the government exercises influence over it. Whoever wrote this doesn't read his comments, doesn't know that he supports something else with all four of them, but buys a lie like that. And there's a lot of cases like this. Therefore, the matter is harmful for Slovenia because abroad it is difficult to explain such things by a rumor that is otherwise characteristic of countries that have far beyond the European Union and European standards because there is no concrete statement. If this petition said that there were three specific cases, then we could answer. But it only says that we are violating media freedom, that the government is doing this and that, because of this Presidency of Slovenia or the leadership of the European Union by Slovenia, it is dangerous for the present and for the future of the Union. That's the problem. It's not a criticism problem, it's not the problem that we sit at home at the common table and clear these things up. The problem is that it wasn't meant to be, but that it was sent out to frame this country. When we write out or when we go out, we're all Slovenia. We are all citizens and citizens of this country. And that's wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u59	Thank you. Do you have a reply to complete? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u60	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that the petition of journalists was probably sent to the Presidents of the European States, the Presidents of Parliament, the Presidents of governments at other European Union institutions and the media around the world, there has obviously been an abuse of the confidence of the signatories. However, given that this petition also states that the Presidency of such a country in which the President of the Government is directly accused of restricting media freedom, and also states that the Presidency of the EU country may be harmful and worrisome, both for the present and for the future of the EU, I am interested in: How do you assess the situation following the systematic desecrations of Slovenia abroad, when, as I mentioned earlier, the addresses referred to above have been addressed to the Presidents of Governments, countries, parliaments and others, the information sent on the alarming situation in Slovenia? This has been mediated, we can say, by political groups as well as other groups from Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u62	It's also a political campaign. It's not just that petition. It's just a circle around three points that's closed. First, a political assessment is adopted and registered in a political document of a party, followed by a civil society organisation, the Society of Journalists. This assessment is sent abroad and then a political rumor abroad refers to the assessment of a civil society organisation. That's how it happens. My colleagues, the presidents of socialist governments, who belong to the European Socialist Party, have warned me that this is happening. That this is happening and that the Slovenian government is trying to discredit itself because of the assessment contained in the press petition. They do not know, however, that the press petition has summarized the assessment made in the political party's assessment. The circle is complete. This is a planned discredit of this government abroad, without realizing that any Slovenian government abroad is also discredited by Slovenia. Already a very small percentage of citizens and citizens of any EU member can list ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It's not personalized, my dear. This is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Each institution of this country outside represents this country. And taken hostage by the state, to reap political benefits, has been a subversive act, and we have witnessed it in recent months.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We have completed the first four questions addressed to the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Janez Janša. At the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly are Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, MEPs Miran Potrč, mag. Janez Drobnič and Dušan Kumer asked questions from the Minister of Health of Zofija Mazej Kukovič, Minister of Environment and Space Janez Podobnik and Minister of Finance Dr. Andrej Bajuk. Since the Minister and Ministers were not present at the meeting, the Members and Members requested an oral answer to their questions at the next meeting of the assembly, so I give the said ministers the floor to answer the questions. First to answer, I invite Mr Janez Podobnik, Minister for Environment and Space, to answer Mr Miran Potræ's question on the amendment of the Housing Law. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Messengers and Members! Allow me to briefly answer the question of Commissioner Potrč, Mr Potrč, concerning the preparation of amendments and the completion of the housing law. First of all, I would like to mention that the preparation of the professional bases and working texts of the amendments and the addition of the law took place to a large extent within the Ministry. It will be complemented in three parts, namely in the area of governance, subsidies to renters and in the area of co-investment and partnerships in housing construction. Mr Potz has already asked me twice in this mandate about the sensitive issue of non-profit leases. Here I would like to say that the law is now in the final phase of inter-sectoral coordination, this month or by the end of November, we would like to see these coordinations completed and then in the government procedure. My ambition is that by the end of the year he will be in the National Assembly. Therefore, in the changes we do not touch on the ratios of tenants in denationalised apartments, nor do we question the instrument of non-profit rent. The level of rights of renters of non-profit apartments will not diminish in our proposals. With regard to rentals, a special professional body, the work done to amend and supplement the housing law, has proved to be relatively balanced in this part, and we have not detected any specific new infringements. The data are also from the annual report of the Ombudsman for the period 2006, which shows that there has been a significant decline in housing complaints compared with previous periods. I must also say that I have met with the previous guardian on this subject several times. If I am even more specific, the proposal of the law will not change with regard to rental relations, but it will complement them with the exceptional continuation of the rental relationship if the tenant permanently goes to a nursing home, creates a new family or moves to a smaller apartment outside the residence. In these exceptional cases, we would like to propose that the owners of dwellings which, while committed to renting non-profit apartments by invitation to tender, rent an apartment without invitation to tender and conclude a contract with a smaller family member, provided that they meet the income and property conditions for granting a non-profit apartment. For according to the law of the house, the users must be evicted for these reasons. This is an important change. You're also asking me in your question about the relationship to an association of tenants. I would like to say that we have had written communication with them, even in the last two months, in the near future, we will meet again before the Government formally adopts the law. Another topic that is related to the proposal of the tenants' association, which we took into account in part, is that they are residential apartments - you asked me about this, I think, last year - and about rentals in market apartments. Of course, there is a certain problem here, because I answer to you before the government's law has passed, this is our proposal, which has now gone into interdepartmental coordination. In the law, we propose a subsidy to rent for the use of residential dwellings that no longer carry out household tasks for the purpose of retirement or for reasons that are not due to their guilt. In this way, we want to make a concrete contribution to reducing the social distress of those users of residential housing whose incomes do not allow for the payment of market rent. And another solution is or will not be proposed - we will propose subsidisation of market rents to tenants who otherwise meet the income and other conditions for renting a non-profit apartment, and because of the long waiting period - this is true for larger cities - they cannot obtain it. As it is said, I expect this month, until the government adopts the law, there are still several dynamic discussions, not least, one of them was also at the last traditional conference in Portorož Real estate business, which also touched partially. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the law. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Comrade Potch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I would like much more if, apart from the announcements, you could tell me that many specific interviews on the subject of housing law have been conducted both by the association of tenants and by the association of former housing units, and that you have reached them, at least on some fundamental issues, on how to solve the problems. Written communication from experience we have, not just about your ministry, perhaps even more about some others, does not mean much. They refer to the formal response of the Ministry or Government to the acceptance of comments and to the answer that they will be taken into account to a reasonable extent, which may also mean nothing at times, because the reasonable extent is different for the minister or ministry and different for the affected, or means a very formal response. My wish, therefore, Mr Minister, is that we would really have the necessary substantive meeting with one and another association to see their problems more than ever and to seek their proper solutions, because then you will achieve progress in this area, otherwise the problems will be perceived and one of the ministers of the environment and space in the next term will be able to say that the problems are no longer because they will be solved - but in a way that they will not be able to fully exercise their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u68	Very briefly. Part, so some views, were taken into account. In particular, I would like to reiterate the position that relates to the exceptional continuation of the lease. I'm also a minister sometimes, if I meet with one association first, and then with another association, in a totally insurmountable situation, the positions are a hundred percent contradictory. So you have to understand, even the criticisms that we have heard on our account at this consultation by one of the associations are such that if we took them into account, then by the other association we would get absolute opposition. And the minister has to find a middle way where he can. We have partly taken into account what I have already said about housing. This solution is financially relative, I would say, tolerable. I think it's about 340,000 euros a year, I'm talking about housing, and we can do that. Unfortunately, however, we have not been able to resolve the key expectations of this association, which are linked to the fact that houseowners can exercise this right as they did in 1992. For legal and other reasons, it is obvious that in the first law, the statutory law of 2003, this could not be enforced. However, I assure you that we will meet again with both associations before the Government finally adopts the law. Here I have the chronology of our meetings, and there were more of them in this mandate. And I will do everything, of course, to keep this communication going. What can and will be done in the context of our changes will be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Comrade Potts, I see you're taking advantage of the rules of procedure. Excuse me? [[No, no, ……]] Then we proceed with the expected scenario: Mrs Zofija Mazej Kukovic, Minister of Health, will first answer the question of mags. Janez Drobnič in connection with the lack of doctors in Slovenia. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u70	Thank you very much, mag. Janez Petty Officer, for a question. The lack of doctors is one of the extremely difficult topics that cannot be addressed in the short term. If we had made so many more entries 12 years ago, say, we also had a university in Maribor and strengthened entry in Ljubljana, then it takes about six years of study and six years of specialization, so that today we could have the necessary additional number of doctors. Since enrolment and education policy were obviously very limited, since this did not only happen in this area, it was also in the field of, for example, communication, information technology, electrical, mechanical engineers - obviously young people were more interested in other professions. So the shortage that is here today must be solved as much as it is in our power; that is, we will supplement the law and propose a change to the Medical Service Act, where we will shorten the specializations, do something in the secondary, because we will, however, achieve European comparable standards, and thus, will be able to do some of the doctors who are not able to work alone today tomorrow. That there are some 100 doctors here, the approximate number is about 400, is not accurate, because the video and the network are not made, but we started with the implementation and recording of the situation at all levels. Thus, the first data we have now indicates a very high concentration of doctors in Ljubljana and Maribor, which on the one hand is the logical consequence of the concentration of the population, but the demographically threatened environments are those which are extremely problematic. This is why we also call on the mayors to try to create a suitable or stimulating environment in this direction, including for young doctors to want to go to these areas. However, a certain part will also be able to be redesigned in a way that is more efficient, so that we now operate within the Ministry at monthly meetings and workshops with all directors of public institutions, hospital directors, directors of health homes. At the same time, we also took a few steps on concessions in terms of recommendations to health-care home directors, to the mayors. What has not yet been accomplished in the legislative field or in the field of legislation or legislation has failed or failed. So, in every way, we work where there is power to improve this structure or to increase the number of active doctors, but we need to know that certain ones also retire. Thus, the data, which is now more estimated that it will take several years, or that this new generation will have to complete its studies in the Faculty of Maribor, which will continue, I think four years, and then to get closer to one average in the Union, is still a few years. These are now those framework frameworks. Of course, we are very serious about this, so this is not a topic that would be neglected, and above all the question is [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the effectiveness of measuring and stimulating doctors - there is also a lot to be done. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Comrade Janez Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u72	Thank you very much for giving me an additional question. See, the lack of doctors is relatively high, according to health care providers they talk about 970 doctors. If you reduce the secondary rate by 30% to all those who enter the job, you will cover a very small proportion of this, practically 20% of the deficit. In addition, society is ageing - increasing the needs of older people for health services. Well, that might be something, but it's not enough. My question was also addressed directly: Will you leave the limit of admission to medical school or medical school? Here is a different state as is the case for computer engineers and machine engineers and others. Do you know why it's different? They'd take colleges, but they don't have any candidates. But there are candidates at the Medical School, but there is a very rigorous measure of acceptance of the criteria. That's what I asked you directly. In fact, some parents are in very great distress because they have to send children abroad in more difficult operations. This is not only difficult for parents, but also a big financial issue. Of course, we'll ask you, what about the money, the lack of money? We can give you this, too. The provincial legislation, which will in fact not mean added value - could thus cover all the needs of homes for older people and problems related to the medical faculty and other medical personnel. They're not just doctors, they're not just nurses. See, Slovenia had a certain comment in the European Union on the Working Time Directive only due to lack of doctors. So to increase the working time range [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] especially on-calls for doctors, due to shortages. [[...]] On the other hand, we need to provide basic health care and to people who are sick [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I did not understand your question, but I thank you for this suggestion, as you say, the rigorous measures in the descriptions. We will certainly explore this and also examine the situation with the Medical Chamber. This may also be a major obstacle. And I didn't understand it from that question, but I hope it's satisfactory now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Below you will answer the questions raised by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš regarding the non-compliance with the contractual obligations. You've received the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u76	Thank you so much for asking. If I give briefly what is the focus of the Ministry of Health, which is also linked to this question by the Member State. In the case of public procurement - I speak exclusively for today - we have made a very active review of the situation and also of public procurements which were not in conformity with the legislation or which did not put the tenderers in an equal position, we have either cancelled them or repeated them. As far as contracts with different operators are concerned, we must and should examine all existing active contracts, all future plans, the data on the works carried out, but we will act as they allow these contracts, because the contracts are written and also the law, which is clearly linked to the basics or images that are linked to our legal order. We also have draft reports on the management of medical equipment from the Court of Auditors, this is not a final report, but in terms of the derogations and recommendations made here by the Court of Auditors, we have prepared a number of measures that we will take both to the Ministry and to the Institute to ensure that medical equipment is systematically ordered, procured, maintained and operated. Otherwise, we do not deal with contracts from the past that have been concluded, because current matters are too much to deal with in particular, but if we come to the conclusion that there are irregularities or actions through ongoing contracts, then we will also propose appropriate procedures. This means the identification of damages and liability and possible charges against the competent law enforcement authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u77	Thank you very much. You want a supplemental question? Here you go. Madam Secretary, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Minister, I am pleased that you have decided to carry out an audit on some business. You know, but the important fact remains, this fact is that within six months, the Oncology Institute has produced five million euros in losses; operating tables, legionellas, due to the failure to build microbial filters for an additional 24,000 euros. To silence the public, we get a super-supervisory committee on 10 May this year, whose task is to transfer papers. Are you interested in the effect? An additional EUR 46,000 for the payment of supervisors who do not in fact detect irregularities. Then there's the Pediatric Clinic, a quarter of a million euros gets the SDS miracle boy for tax advice on cables. The same amount should then be given to the Hospital Slovenj Gradec - interesting. This whole hospital doesn't get it. The SCT, the real contractor of the works, gets half a million euros to speed up the construction of the new paediatric wedge, just to accelerate construction, despite the fact that this construction has been going on for more than ten years and it has not been justified. This sum of money should also be given new medical work, but the sum of money the new medicine doesn't get. Then there's the Trbovlje Hospital. Amazingly, I say, the money already provided in the budget is disappearing from the budget for the new regional hospital in Trbovje. I ask you, Minister: Where did all this money go, or who will be responsible for the transfer of money from the budget, or from one item to, as it seems, even in private pockets?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u80	Thank you very much. As I mentioned, we have too much activity to go on, so we can't deal with those back there. I can't deal with them. Also on the data, where you say that the Oncology Institute had 6 million euros in losses - 31.6.2007; therefore, before my mandate and before the term of director who is there today. However, it is in every way that the court is the one who will decide on the responsibility of individual cases if they are found and if someone answers that there have been violations in the past. Today I am responsible for what is happening today, and I have also mentioned how we are doing prevention in this area because we know that it has been and is still not well controlled. In particular, this is the area of investment and public procurement. I don't have the answers for everyone, and I don't expect to have them, because I just can't have them. Because today it's so much open, from neurologic, to paediatric, to oncological, what's going on here and now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Procedurally. Here you go, Ambassador Grignar.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u82	Thank you very much for this part of the answer, which, I must say, did not please me, Madam Secretary-General. That is why I will also take advantage of the opportunity given to me by Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and ask my fellow Members and colleagues for an extended debate. I estimate that the mandate of this Government did not begin two months ago when you were appointed to Parliament, but that the mandate began in 2004. And that's when certain irregularities that I mentioned began to occur. It is not fair to throw things like this literally under the rug. I say that someone in this country must only be held accountable, not least for the corruption that has been proven in many cases, specifically at the Ministry of Health. Therefore, I think it would be really useful to have a broad debate on the events related to the Ministry of Health. Nor is it fair, I have asked a whole bunch of questions to the Ministry of Health related to the Paediatric Clinic, including the new commission that was appointed to take care of the supervision, and was misled on the first visit because you showed her, I will say, a sample room that was supposed to be, I don't know, an example of a new pediatric clinic, and then it turned out to be purely political manipulation. I've asked a number of questions. Do you know what happened? The Rules of Procedure have been amended in the National Assembly and, under the new Rules of Procedure, these Members' questions are simply irrelevant because the person headed by the Ministry has changed. This means that, honourable colleagues and colleagues, the President of the Government simply neglects responsibility by changing ministers like this. That's ugly. That, once again, is ugly! And I'm also interested in that, Your Honor, you say there's a lot of work to be done at the Ministry. It's a good month, less than a month, because holidays are in between, and then you'll all be together. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Meeting the most important task in this country - Presidency of the European Union. [[...]] And as it is understood from the letter sent to the National Assembly by President Janez Janša, the Government will literally be overloaded for six months only by the Presidency of the European Union. What about home affairs? I ask you once again to reconsider and, of course, support my proposal, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] there will be a broad debate on this issue in Parliament. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u83	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will decide on your proposal on Thursday in the framework of the votes. However, we continue to follow the scenario envisaged by Dr Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Finance, to answer the question of Mr Dusan Kumra, a fellow Member, regarding the irrational spending of public funds. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Dušan Kumer, honourable Member, raised this question, not for the first time, expressing his concern about the irrational spending of budgetary resources, as he called it: diaries, nocturnals, air travel abroad, business and copyright contracts for advice and professional assistance to individual ministries and so on. As he himself stated, he was promised in response that the Government would remedy certain shortcomings and anomalies by amending laws and regulations, and he therefore raised the following question. First, which acts have been amended? How much money was spent on chartering planes abroad in this year's first nine months after individual ministries? How many copyright contracts have been concluded with natural and legal persons in 2007? And what is the trend in spending money in these areas over the last two years? That's four questions. What acts have been amended? With a view to improving the rationalisation of the management or rational use of public funds, the Government has proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Public Servants, which introduces the possibility of monitoring possible abuses of the right to absence from work due to illness and the right to exercise transport to and from work. In order to rationalise transport costs to and from work, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a Regulation on the reimbursement of transport costs to and from work of public servants and civil servants. In addition to the existing possibility of reimbursement of the cost of a monthly bus ticket in urban bus transport, this one also provides for monthly inter-country bus tickets and so-called combined tickets for urban and suburban bus and rail transport. This way is much more economical for the government, as the cost of monthly tickets is much cheaper than one - way or return tickets. The maximum savings resulted from the provision of a legal basis for the reimbursement of the so-called flat-rate railway ticket, which applies to the cheapest tickets in general. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also contributed to the rationalisation of costs by amending and supplementing the Regulation on reimbursement of costs for official travel abroad, thereby simplifying the accounting of these costs. By reference to consistent compliance with the principle of effective and cost-effective treatment of public funds in the cost of staying, the Regulation also contributed to the choice of cheaper hotels and addressed the uncertainty caused by the concept of luxury hotel category until its entry into force. Second question: How much money has been spent on chartering planes abroad in this year's first nine months after individual ministries? How much was used for regular lines, diaries and hotel services? The cabinet of the President of the Government, all ministries and government services, spent EUR 367.559 for the first nine months of this year and EUR 5 million for the purchase of airline tickets on regular lines, EUR 8 000 48 494 for the payment of foreign travel subsistence allowance and EUR 2 million 149,515 for the payment of hotel and restaurant services abroad EUR 1 million 1152,491. Third question: How many contracts for work, copyright contracts with natural and legal persons were concluded by individual ministries, the General Secretariat and the Government Service in 2007 for advice and professional assistance? From January to October 2007, the ministries, government services and the General Secretariat of the Government without the Ministry of Economy - here we have some final things, the data we still need, together 1238 contracts for professional assistance and advice totaling EUR 4 million 316.000 or, to facilitate the presentation of a billion 34.286 former tolars. In 2005, ministries, government services, the General Secretariat, without the Ministry of Economy to be comparable, concluded 564,158 tolars and in 2006, 1388 contracts totalling 279,365. I apologize for running out of time, but, honourable Member, here I have a complete answer to your question, and I will also send the table to you in full and also to the entire Slovenian public on the Ministry of Finance websites as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Comrade Dushan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. I'll try to be a little more explicit on the question. First of all, as I have said many times about public consumption, it is an irreplaceable rule that money is spent in accordance with the good master's practice and that all those side paths to nepotism, clientism and so on must be closed here. There have been two public cases in the area of contract-making recently, many of which are nepotism at the Ministry of Education and Sport and, last but not least, clientism at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Public money should be spent as carefully as citizens are taxed and taken care of as the Tax Office when sending to all citizens of the income statement and other tax-related matters. However, not all vats are of the same type here, and practice is also established here when certain client channels can play their part. But I wouldn't talk about it. I still insist that the spending of money on these segments that I asked you about is abnormally high and is every year higher instead of being lower. Let me do the numbers, because this is the result of the research that was done and the government gave this number. Thus, in 2005, almost EUR 28 million was paid to the State Administration for authors' fees and contracts of work, in 2006 almost EUR 29 million, and it seems that at the end of the year, at least according to my data, the figure will be even higher. This sum, almost EUR 30 million, is about the same as if we decided to settle all the damage with this money. [[End warning sign]] Which happened as a result of the beach under Mangart. The trend is on the rise, not the decrease, as I ask you many times. And I don't think the government is playing here. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I would just like to add to that what has happened over the last two years, if you want to make a real comparison, it would be wise to use a little more than two years. Indeed, in 2005, this is the first year of operation of this government, and these costs have fallen considerably if compared with 2004. I don't know if you have this information. We are therefore preparing at the Ministry of Finance a review of all these data for a wider period, so that we will not have the wrong image of what is really happening in this area. However, I would just like to add that for these cases, which you consider to be either customerism or nepotism, even though you did not ask for them, I will ask the Budget Supervisory Service to review these matters and report to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Comrade Dushan Kumer, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. I will still use procedurally and I will suggest that the National Assembly also speak a little more broadly about this, because of the information you have given me, but of course it serves your services, and in this way I will not be launching myself when it comes to journals, airline tickets and so on. You have your numbers, but the month of April, when I asked the same question, you gave for the first two months numbers that are similar to or even higher than those numbers that you gave for the whole year. And I'll read your numbers again. This is your official document from April. Total data collected from 1.1. to 28.2. 2007 are as follows: expenses incurred for payment of daily subsistence allowances, expenses incurred for payment of hotel, restaurant services abroad, expenses incurred for payment of other transport costs abroad, totaling EUR 7 million. But you gave me this number today, about €5 million. And not to mention the data collected for the journals, business trips, etc. But this, Mr. Secretary, is your document, from your work and those you gave me at the end of the year are lower. I don't suppose anyone has been returning these funds, so after six months in this account, there's been less consumption now. I would therefore suggest that the National Assembly speak on these numbers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u91	Mr Minister, I'm sorry you can't answer that, too, but colleague Kumer has used the business option that we're going to decide on Thursday. And we continue on the basis of the script. We are moving on to the first round of questions sent or questions raised by Members and Members. My colleague, Janko Weber, will raise his question to the Minister of Transport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u92	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. Dear Mr. Secretary! With Slovenia's entry into the European Union, we have been given a unique opportunity to create the European Union's transport policy, and this is best reflected in the fact that Slovenia is also the crossroads of the fifth and tenth European corridor. Of course, this importance of Slovenia will be so much greater at a time when we will take over the leadership of the European Union, and we can certainly expect to be justified here, at home in Slovenia, that this will be reflected in the even more successful development and early construction of both the motorway cross and the modernisation of the railway network in the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, we are faced with concrete facts that Slovenian railways continue to insist, if I may say so, on their high losses, and that their business is also becoming increasingly burdensome for the economy. Delays that are being achieved mainly in freight already threaten successful business, such as one of our largest companies, Luke Koper. Of course, there's something similar about Dars. We note that Dars is also facing liquidity problems and that business is actually becoming increasingly difficult to say to a recent successful company. In fact, recently, the Director-General of the Slovenian Railways, who was replaced or resigned, recently. The government has replaced the president of the administration of Dars as well as some members of the Supervisory Board, and I am therefore interested in: How will all these changes actually reflect in the dynamics of the construction of these important transport corridors, especially in the additional motorway programme, which is also represented by the 3rd A development axis, this is the development axis of Ljubljana-Kočevje-Petrina? For we know that if there is no successful operation of the railways and Darsa, the resources to modernise this necessary connection cannot be seen. That's why you, Your Honor. Radovan Žerjav, I ask: What are the effects of changing the management cities of Darsa and Slovenian railways on the programme for the construction of the highway network and 3.A development axes and on the programme for the development of Slovenian railways? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Sir Weber, for your question. The government appointed a new president of the administration, a deputy of the administration and two new members of the administration on 25 October and the Slovenian Railways Supervisory Board only last Thursday, 15 November. In such a short time, these societies have not yet been able to have any more tangible effects, but, of course, I personally, as probably all of you, expect or expect. As regards the implementation of the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, I assure you there will be no changes. However, the new administration of Darsa will certainly stand by because I specifically asked them to do so, for a more transparent and efficient cost rationalisation operation, as well as for a more accurate and responsible use of taxpayer money. That is also the agreement I made with members of the board of directors of Dars two weeks ago. As far as the change at the head of the Slovenian Railways is concerned, the fact is that the change has not taken place on the proposal of our ministry and not the government. I'm afraid Mr. Puhan has given up on his own. However, it was our job to resolve the situation as soon as possible and to prevent the dead as they had been created. The tasks directly linked to the Slovenian Railways Development Programme as a company and the implementation of public economic services financed by budgetary resources, namely infrastructure maintenance, traffic management, passenger transport, are planned and defined by the Slovenian Railway Business Plan. The fact that the business in the Slovenian Railways is managed by a four-member management within the framework of the powers laid down by the Act establishing the Slovenian Railway Company can be said to ensure that the continuity of management, the performance of tasks is ensured also in the event of the replacement of one of the members. The four-member management has also ensured that the change in management will not have a negative impact on the management of the company. If in some way I draw the line because there have been changes in the leadership of Darsa and Slovenian Railways only recently, what more visible effects at this time cannot I talk about. But it's like I said, I'm definitely expecting them, but it's gonna take us at least a while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Complementary question, colleague Janko Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u96	Thank you. I'm afraid that time is running out, so I'm kind of surprised if there's already been a replacement, I think that some dynamics should be accelerated, but not that we're actually wondering or finding out that there's nothing yet known because these changes were made recently. I just want to point out the following, that we are facing increasing inflation. The fact that there is no contract for the construction of the tunnel in Shentvid is also likely to put great pressure on these backlogs on the basis of increasing inflation and the growing need for public funds. If we add to this the fact that, in the last period, we have been building a very large network of motorways alone and only with loans, this inflation will also have a major impact on the payment of these debts. So I think that real time for any in-depth thinking is needed very quickly. Above all, I am particularly interested in this 3.A development axis: Is it already included in the area of the department located in the municipality of Škofljica and which, lastly, also means the bypass in this municipality and means connection, at least so we hope all those municipalities; on the highway [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Cross? [[...]] How far is this procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an additional answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u98	Thank you very much. In fact, I must add that, as soon as she took up her mandate, this administration has entered into intensive negotiations on this particular project, as you yourself have mentioned - Šentvid. And this with the contractors and in this sense that we continue with the parts as soon as possible to ensure all those deadlines that have been agreed upon. So we're talking about the pre-Tourist Season 2008. The negotiations are still ongoing, and I hope that in the short term or this week they will somehow be concluded that this whole project can be relaunched. But I agree with you that this is a crucial matter. As for the 3rd A development axis, you know that we have great problems putting the route into space mainly because it goes part of this route around the Skofljica through Natura 2000. Did I say right? That's why we're really gonna have to find one solution here. It's a problem with those butterflies. How to solve this issue will have to be seen in some way by our fellow Minister of the Environment. In short, things are moving on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, colleague Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. I will also propose, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, that a broader debate be held in the National Assembly, in particular to highlight this issue of integration of routes, both the motorway network and other infrastructures into the environment, particularly in the Natura 2000 area. Here, it appears, we are faced with insurmountable problems, in fact, how to set further infrastructure development and, above all, to enable the equitable development of all places in Slovenia. That is how I think that, at least so I hope, it should be in the interest of all parliamentary groups to ensure that investment is also possible in the Natura 2000 area and that we also know what these options are. Because what we are experiencing right now in Kočevska, I am sure that many places in Slovenia will also experience in the future. I think it would be a good time for the National Assembly to be as familiar with this issue as possible through the answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u101	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will decide on your procedural proposal on Thursday. The following question will be asked by Mr Mitja Slavinec, the Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! As early as 21 January 2005, you and the mayors of 26 municipalities from Pomurje in Murska Sobota signed a contract on the construction and operation and joint management of the regional water supply system in Pomurje. The Convention Treaty includes a framework for the distribution of shares by financial source: the European Union, the State, the municipality; it sets out a timetable for the activities to be notified to the co-financing project in the second half of 2006; and the consequences for the derogation of the individual municipality from the project. This is an extremely important investment project that will fully manage the supply of drinking water to the population in Pomurje, one of the most pressing problems, especially in the dry years. Unfortunately, however, the activities of the project have been delayed according to a specific timetable. Those activities agreed by Pomurje to be transferred to the 2004 budget by means of an amendment to the 2004 budget from direct regional incentives for Pomurje, amounting to 50 million to the Water Fund budget item at the time. What is important is that 150 million dollars were provided for the documentation in 2004, while the Ministry of Environment and Space undertook to provide the necessary funds for the preparation of the project and investment documentation for the use of cohesion funds in 2005. In view of all this, Mr Minister, I ask you to answer the following questions: Why is there a delay in the project to build a regional drinking water supply system in Pomurje? Who failed to fulfill their obligations? How is the financial part of the project implemented and how much share will the municipalities of Pomur have to provide? What is the new real time plan for activities on this project? What do you, as Minister, intend to do to ensure that such an important project for Pomurje takes place without any problems, especially without any significant delays? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u103	Thank you very much. But I'm asking the Minister for answers. Here you go, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Your Honor! First of all, I would like to say that in some way this project has already begun, because it does not take place simultaneously in all areas, but this year we also co-financed almost 90% of the value of the water supply in the municipality of Cankova within this water supply project of Pomurje, as well as water supply in the municipality of Kobilje and in similar relations also co-financed the water supply in the municipality of Sveti Jurij ob Ščavnica. This is a good EUR 2.2 million contributed by our ministry under the Water Fund. In this context, we can say that this project has also begun in terms of construction. In other words, I must say that the main reason why the deadline is somewhat delayed is that the selection of the main designer was about 6 months late, which was three times the main projector had to be selected in the procurement process. That's actually the main and only reason this delay happened. Otherwise, I can reiterate, as I have said several times as Minister, that the comprehensive supply of drinking water to the population and the protection of the water resources of Pomurje is one of the priority cohesion projects of both our ministry and the current government. Since this is also a major project in terms of design and construction itself, it is complex and demanding, it is divided into two stages. The first is the construction of a network which, according to data from the documentation projects, amounts to approximately EUR 50 million and covers ten projects in Prleka and 15 projects in Pomurje. The second phase then represents the adoption of the State Spatial Plan. However, in the first phase of the project, which was very detailed to the municipalities this month in Gornji Petrovci, it was clearly stated and envisaged that the application for the allocation of cohesion funds for the first phase would be made within the next three months. We expect that the decision to allocate funds will be issued no later than the end of May next year. This also means that, if we assume, let us be optimistic that the first call for operators will succeed, we will start with large construction works in the autumn of 2008. The implementation of these phases is also here in the correlation of cooperation with the municipalities and I must say that we are working together well, and that the municipalities here have a particularly important role to play in obtaining all the consent to build the network and also the building permits. The second phase of the project, however, represents the adoption of the State Spatial Plan, which will identify the main water resources. They are all located in the area of the Mura River aquifer. Procedures for the adoption of this State Spatial Plan shall be carried out simultaneously with the procedures for obtaining building permits for the network. In view of the timetable prepared for the adoption of the State Spatial Plan, we expect the Government to adopt it in the autumn of next year. With regard to financial resources, which is the second phase, I will repeat what has been said several times, the main financial source being the EU fund's funds. As regards the percentage, co-financing from the Cohesion Fund varies between 50% and 60% of the investment value. An estimated 30% of the investment will be covered by the state budget, a large majority through the water fund, and 10% of the costs and value added tax will be covered by the municipalities. In view of the great complexity of this project, I also expect that we will continue to do so successfully in cooperation with the municipalities. We also have a special project council to monitor this project, involving representatives of municipalities and the highest representatives of our ministry. On your last question: What am I going to do in person, how am I going to make this project work? Just like before. This is a priority in government debates, and I am also working. However, if necessary, I will also intervene in the functioning of this special project council and also personally participate in these meetings, if necessary. I expect that the project will also be implemented in concrete terms in the coming year, i.e. with construction works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Comrade Slavinac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The fact that the project started in some way is just the content of my question. It's that problem that it barely started in some way, but it should have run more or less in full steam. I can understand that the reason you've given him is that he wasn't chosen as a projector. However, I wonder: Who is responsible for this? Who is to blame that the invitation was repeated three times? Was the invitation poorly prepared? Were there any other problems? Who's responsible for this? Did you, as Minister, call this particular person responsible for any responsibility? See, if such matters happen anywhere in the company, then it is known whose responsibility it is, because this is also related to direct damage, direct economic damage and even more to all the problems that the inhabitants of Pomurje have and will have due to the delay in the supply of drinking water. Even the economy. Last but not least, very important economic damage. The second thing, which is much more problematic from the point of view of the congregations, is in this little thing that you said: up to 10% and taxes. The municipalities are therefore expected to cover up to 10% of the investment value and tax. Is the tax or is it not an investment value? Why do you take the whole tax as the expense of the congregations? Look what that means. 10% of the congregations somehow assured, and they planned. But now 20% of the tax comes and their share triples. Their share of 10% became 30%, which is three times the share for municipalities in Goričkem in particular, as well as others, where water supply is a key problem and these municipalities are in very difficult financial situations, they will simply not be able to provide as they are now. And that's the main problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Minister Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u108	With regard to the first and the procurement procedures, it would be unusual if, with regard to these procedures, which are highly transparent and monitored, however I intervened in this procedure. The committees they run are formed, and of course complaints will take place. In Slovenia we have complicated procedures with a choice in public procurement in these public works. I assure you that, for example, the 3rd development axis is due to this project, the process was led by Dars, they were lost for three months because in the second round an operator was selected to prepare complete project documentation. There's really no way a person can directly point to the culprit here. Although you are partly right - it is very important how tendering conditions are prepared. In fact, it is a key battle for the tender to normally succeed in the first round. But apparently there were so many bidders that they decided in the process in the third attempt. With regard to the financial resource, if we sum it up, if the Cohesion Fund contributes up to 60% of the investment value and if 30% will contribute to the state budget, then this is a very good information for municipalities where this pipeline takes place, if we add up these percentages. Here I would like to say that we are not aware that such a situation has happened, that so large projects, which are projects for decades or centuries, are being built without or rarely with credit funds. And these are the provisions that will be difficult for both the State and the congregations. However, if possible, the State budget generally approaches and this additional cost of value added tax does not significantly burden the municipalities. This is also happening in other cohesion projects in our district. I hope that we can keep this pace for years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Ivan Grill, Minister of Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, Mr. Vice President-in-Office. Dolenjska with its economic centre Novo mesto belongs to the more developed regions in Slovenia. The repair, as one of the major manufacturing companies in the centre of New Town, has daily production of over 1000 cars. A few thousand people from the whole region, from all over Slovenia, are driving to work in Revoz. There is also transit traffic towards Croatia through Novo mesto. If we take two other large companies here, with the same huge logistical needs as Krka and Adria, we can see that there is a very big problem with transport infrastructure that does not allow for normal logistics processes. At the time of the visit of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the economy in particular expressed its demand, expectation and also its request that more emphasis be placed on infrastructure in this area, as everything else can then be done alone. In the Spatial Development Strategy of the New City or Region, the solution to this problem is outlined by the urgent construction of two railway lines, since only the two railway undertakings that would enter into the ring can solve the transport problem of this part of Slovenia. At this very time, as I am aware, a comparative study is also being carried out at the national level of the different pathways of the third development axis, which will also go through Novo mesto. And in New Town, we estimate that the only optimal solution would be for a single bypass to take this part of the third development axis and thus also transit against the White landscape and against Croatia. While the other bypass would take over the regional transport needs, which, as I have already mentioned, reach several thousand vehicles a day just for the sake of the economy. Given the complexity of this project and the projections that extend there until 2012, transport needs would actually reach the time when they could not. I therefore ask you in this regard, Mr. Minister: What activities will the Ministry undertake to build this undertaking as soon as possible, or whether it is possible to build a priority rail first on the third development axis and then on the second railing, since only the two railway undertakings are [[warning sign for end - incomprehensible]] can solve this problem. [[...]] Next question: According to the information we have, the conclusion of all activities for the construction or completion of the highway [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Žerev, Minister of Transport, I ask for answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Grill, for the question. First of all, as regards the response to the bypass around the New City. In the process of preparing the State Spatial Road Construction Plan on the southern part of the third development axis between the A-2 Ljubljana-Brežje motorway and the border with the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Transport listened to the traffic problems of Novo mesto and took into account their desire to place a connecting road around the New Town along the third development axis route. The third development axis will thus, in fact, represent one part of the railway to which the connecting road around the New City will be linked. The third development axis would thus be able to take on transit traffic to Croatia and the connecting road, as you yourself mentioned, would be aimed primarily at regional transport needs. The proposal for the most appropriate expert solution is expected to be ready by February 2008, and the adoption of the State Spatial Plan is expected by May 2010, as an idea project, a draft spatial plan and a public decomposition must be drawn up in advance. The first important step in planning is therefore to choose the most appropriate solution option, and in the next stages, in the context of the development of investment documentation, we can also verify the construction phase for the proposed option solution. The results will show which part of the New Town Oblast needs to be built first. On the south side of the third development axis, however, according to the Ministry of Transport’s expert transport services in the transport sector, two sections are of the highest priority, namely the section passing the New City and crossing the Gorjanes. If it is not contrary to the rules on space regulation and contrary to the adopted programme for the preparation of the State Spatial Plan, it may also be possible that the municipality for a connecting road, separate from the planning of the third development axis, is itself leading the preparation of further spatial and project documentation. Planning will require the close cooperation of the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Municipality of Novo mesto, but of course we will have to be careful that things are coordinated here. Let me also say that at the moment, ten variants of the third development axis, south of the Koper - Lendava motorway, have entered the final stage plus one. The second part of the question that others did not hear, however, relates to the highway section by Trebnje. So the whole motorway connection from Ljubljana to the Obrežje will be provided in the first half of 2009, when the section by Trebnje will also be completed. The rest of this route will be completed sooner than these two sections past Trebnje. The reasons for the departure from the plan by the end of 2008 are the problems related to the acquisition of the necessary land and the complaints made by tenderers in the procurement procedures. Let me also say that at this first meeting with the new administration of Dars, we have also set this issue as one of the priorities, that we are also trying to finish this part of the highway by Trebnje as soon as possible in 2009. Unfortunately, it is no longer possible in 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Buddy Grill, supplemental question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u114	Thank you so much for those answers. I am very pleased to see the solutions that we are looking forward to in this part of Slovenia. But here, if I understood you correctly, I would only have taken a ride or found that it makes sense, or that the Ministry supports, that in the region or New City we continue to put these two routes, the bypasses into the space, and we are actually going to face all this planning of the ministry's activities, and that, when the time comes, things are somehow folded together and continue to be a final solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The following question will be raised by Member Samo Bevk, Minister of Transport and Minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! At its 130th regular meeting on 12 July this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided, at the initiative of the mayors and Members of the Idrian and Logan municipalities, to include in the resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023 the Idrija-logic foot of the fourth development axis. This decision required an infinite number of activities for the Government to listen to our arguments. Over the past two years, I have raised eight written and oral questions and initiatives addressed mainly to the Minister for Transport, the Minister for Development, the Minister for Regional Policy and the Minister for Environment and Space. Obviously, it was a decisive initiative that we took at the April meeting in Hotedršica when we took a decision on the Idrija-logic alliance for the comprehensive consideration of the fourth development axis. We then based this requirement on a strategy for the spatial development of Slovenia and a resolution on transport policy, which the fourth development axis considered comprehensively. In July, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia promised to include in the first review of the national development resolution for the period 2007-2023 the modernisation of the state road network on priority development axes will also include the modernisation of the Idrija-logic foot of the fourth development axis, including co-financing of this route from the EU Cohesion Funds for Slovenia. It will also be necessary to complement the national strategic reference framework for the period 2007-2013 and the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure, which the Republic of Slovenia has already sent to the European Commission in Brussels. In addition, it will be necessary to update the Celtic or Idrian-logic arm of this axis also in the state budgets after 2009 and in the development plans programmes. Following the documents currently in force, the Celtics fell out of all development plans after 2009. In view of the fact that on Thursday the Government addressed the implementation of the state development resolution, the Minister for Development of Dr. Žig Turk and the Minister of Transport of Mags. Happy Zerjava I ask: When will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia implement the commitment to include the Idrija-logic leg of the fourth development axis in the resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023 and funding from European funds? How are projects on the whole quarter of the development axis implemented, including the decision on the tunnel in Cerkljanska? I thank both ministers very much for the answer. But if it's necessary because there's two of them, I'll be extra.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u117	Thank you very much for your question. As you said, you asked two ministers. However, within the time available, I ask both Ministers for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. When I took up the ministerial function, I actually got from you, as the first question of the question of enlargement, or the appendix in the 4th development axis. That was March 26th. At that time, I told you that the resolution on national development programmes is a living document that will, if necessary, change that we are open to such initiatives. It followed, as you said, the initiative of the mayors of the municipalities of Idrija and Logatca, Mr Navet or Mr Sever, to place this connection Logatec-Idrija on the fourth development axis, and in fact the Government responded to my proposal on 12 July 2007 to these two mayors in order to complete the first re-examination of the resolution with a project to modernise the Idria-logological foot of the fourth development axis. In fact, the issue is coming at the right time. The Government Development Service is committed to reporting to the Government once a year on progress made in the implementation of the resolution projects, we reported on this on Thursday. In this report, we have identified or reported on our efforts in the process of adopting the budget or monitoring budget planning, how the resolution projects are included in the budget. We have noted that, as appropriate, we have assessed the progress of the resolution projects, we estimate that, with the exception of about ten projects, progress is at least satisfactory and, in addition to this point that you are asking, we have identified some 10 other amendments, ideas, shortcomings that we need to complement in this resolution. The government has committed us to complete the resolution on the basis of this report, the Government of Development Service will put it into the procedure this month and we expect it to be adopted by the end of the year. So a brief answer to your question would be that this matter will be recorded in the resolution by the end of this year. I would also like to ask Mr. Gerjev for an explanation. And I would like to say that this was unanimously accepted by the Government, that all ministers accept this, that it is a traditional part of the Celtics with Minister Podobnik at the head.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Let me just add what's in my department about the fourth development axis. In implementing the fourth development axis project, it is a matter of updating existing road links and therefore there are activities on individual sections or measures at different stages. Škofje Loka and a large number of smaller measures, rehabilitation of facilities, reconstructions, intersections and the like are carried out in accordance with the planned budget resources; project documentation is being prepared for many others. Currently, this bypass around Škofje Loke is practically just before the beginning, as you know, something gets stuck there on the route, but I hope that we will successfully resolve it and that it will indeed build glass in the beginning of next year. For a new link between Cerknim and Hotavljavi and Gorenje Vase Oblast, a proposal for the most suitable solution will be prepared this year, and for three more Godovič, Hotedršica and Lower Idrija will be preparing variant studies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Buddy just Bevk, supplemental, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. A respected choir! Both ministers would like to ask a further question or not get a full answer to the first part of my question or to the first question. I thank Minister Gigi Turk for his activity in the classification of the Idrian-logic arm of this development axis in the resolution document. But that's not enough. At that time, the government also promised in July this year that this would include co-financing of this route from the European Union Cohesion Funds for Slovenia, so it is also necessary to take a second step, not only to include this disregarded route of the Idrija-logic arm in this resolution, but also to complement the national strategic reference framework for the period 2007 to 2013 and the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure that the Government has already sent to the European Commission in Brussels in the spring, without a set of projects on the Idrian-logic part of the fourth development axis. So in this sense, if we want to get European funds, because we know that the state budget is too small for more ambitious plans. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that European funds are also being sought. [[...]] Minister Mag. I would like to ask a further question, however, because he also mentioned the railway in Lower Idrija, or tunnel in Lower Idrija, then Godovic-Hotedršica, but did not mention the new highway connection in Kalcas and major updates in the Zole race [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] on the most critical part of this axis, more than just that things are being prepared, because after 2009, there is no project in the country's development plans, except for the roadblock in Godovic. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u123	Thank you very much, too, from my side. You said that this documentation was filed in Brussels in March, so before these changes occurred. Minister Zhagar is aware of this or is aware of this problem. It is aware that we have completed the strategy and I am sure that, on the next occasion when these documents are updated, it will take action and react in accordance with these decisions of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Minister Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that. For this part of the direct connection from Kalc to the highway, of course, we are looking for the right solutions and, of course, here we are also in contact with the mayor who supports this issue. I'm sorry I forgot to mention this earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u126	Thank you very much. We continue to ask questions from the Members of Parliament. Mag. Borut Saiovic will raise the question of a letter to the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Minister and Ministers, Honourable Minister of Public Administration! My question is this: Why is it that the competent authorities in public administration do not conclude administrative procedures in accordance with the law because of the requests of persons to enter into proceedings as a party or a party to administrative proceedings? Let me get this straight. The practice of managing administrative procedures has been greatly expanded to ensure that, in the event that any person requests entry into proceedings as a party or a party, the authority de facto terminates the administrative procedure for a period of time until the decision on whether to grant that person the right to enter the procedure becomes final in the administrative procedure. Thus, the conduct of the Authority is due to the failure to adopt substantive decisions under the Administrative Procedure Act or any other regulation. We believe that there is no excuse for this and that the parties to the administrative procedure are inadmissible administrative obstacles and, literally, in some area, the breakdown of the rule of law. A number of cases have arisen where an increase in the number of connected persons who clearly know the practice of individual administrative authorities successfully submits requests for entry into administrative procedure as a party or as a party [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] , in such a way that before a decision on the non-recognition of the right to be a party to a particular case is completed, the following person in that group shall make a similar request. [[...]] Such conduct is intended to exploit the practice of administrative authorities and thus prevent the adoption of substantive decisions, which would not have been possible if the authorities had conducted the procedure in accordance with the law and the procedure had not been terminated. The Authority may terminate the procedure only where a preliminary question has to be resolved before the substantive decision on the matter and there is no doubt that the issue of the right to be a party to the proceedings. Article 142 of the ZUP provides, without a doubt, that a complaint against a decision rejecting the request to be a party to the proceedings shall suspend its enforcement, which means that any person who has requested the recognition of the right to be a party to the proceedings shall have all the rights of the party in the proceedings pending the finality of the decisions rejecting that request. However, the administrative authority must continue the procedure and bring it to an end in substance, although the right of all persons requiring the recognition of the right to be party to the proceedings has not yet been decided. The practice of individual administrative authorities is now quite the opposite. This is how procedures stand and continue indefinitely, resulting in economic damage, of course certain problems for which we are all still very interested, and no doubt they also stand for half a year in the administrative phase. More on the practical case of landfills below.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister of Public Administration for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! The question you have asked is a rather specific procedural and legal question. However, I think that the authorities that do so, waiting for a definitive solution to the dispute as to whether or not a party may be in the process, are doing the right thing because they are given the basis for this by the amended Article 142 of the ZUP. This Act was Novelled by this provision in 2004 and, as you yourself cited, expressly provides that a complaint against a negative decision on the status of the party in the proceedings will delay the enforcement of this Decision. It is true that it does not explicitly say that the procedure is terminated in this case, but it is difficult to imagine how we would otherwise implement this provision. Identifying all persons who have been affected in any way, whose rights could be affected by the resolution of an administrative matter, is very important because they have the right to participate in the process, to exercise their rights, to tell them their rights in this process, and if this right is not given to them when the process is under way, and it later turns out that they should be given, serious problems may arise. A permit can already be issued - for example, there are often such cases - and on the basis of this permit something is already being built or even built, and then someone who asserts the right to perform as a party in the process, initiates a renewal of the procedure and puts the entire investment under question. That's what I think it's right to do. Of course, it is another question of what if such a right is abused. You can't do that. I think that the body which has indications that this right is being misused, that such requests are being submitted successfully, that it should react appropriately and that it has one decision to resolve everything; or, for example, call on all those interested to report their participation in the process within 10 days and then conclude. I think you can pull it off without stalling. That's one thing. Second thing. It is right that the Ministry of the Environment and Space on these procedural issues should take a priority decision and decide quickly, and so do they and will continue to do so. I must even say that delays, backlogs, have been drastically reduced in this construction area. At the first stage, there are virtually no more of them - so we are solving matters in administrative units within the time frame - and at the second stage these delays are barely noticeable - so it is barely longer than the time limit for solving the case at the second stage, the one prescribed by law for two months - which means that this deadline has been reduced by approximately 4 to 5 times since the beginning of this government's mandate. I believe that you will continue to tie the issue to a concrete case. If we can help in any way in a particular case by talking to the administrative unit and after the professional level, the ministry will help solve the problem by quickly resolving the matter, I am absolutely prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Comrade Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Now, on a specific occasion, which I am sure will also be of great interest to Minister Podobnik. We are all in the interest of bringing him to an end and ending him. We do not want to influence in any way the substantive decision. The Ministry has the right to decide one way or another, as it will decide, but the decision must be made. The worst thing is when it's in the air. Such a case is the procedure for the extension of the environmental permit for the disposal of waste in the public company Komunal Kranj at the Tenetiša dump, where similar requirements for the entry into the procedure have been successfully submitted by at least four natural persons after the same requirement has been rejected by the first two persons in the same group. A higher number of persons are expected to submit similar requirements only in order to prevent the substantive decision-making of the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, the Ministry of the Environment and Space, which has expressed in one of its decisions a legal position that a decision on an administrative matter which is the subject of a procedure to which a particular person requests entry, is deferred to a final decision on the entry into the procedure, thereby affecting the continuation of the procedure of the first-degree body and the group of persons who attempt to prevent that decision as an institution in this administrative matter. However, the legal question regarding the possibility of dumping more than 77,000 people remains substantively unresolved. In order to block the administrative procedure, the costs of postponing for the municipality increase dramatically from day to day and I think that, given the time we have already spent in this event, it is right, necessary and necessary [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] That the Ministry decides substantively - one way or another. [[...]] The main emphasis is not on the content of the decision, but to decide that everyone involved will then have the opportunity, both on the one hand and on the other. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I can't say anything like I fully agree with you: it has to be decided, it has to be decided quickly. I pledge to speak to the Director of the Agency, Dr. Žlebeir, to help him find a solution that will enable him to complete this procedure quickly without infringing on anyone's right to be parties to the procedure. In my opinion, the matter is resolved precisely in such a way that a public call can be made to all those who think that they could be a party to notify it and then decide on this right in due course. However, this is a very sensitive issue of the participation of parties, party participants in the procedure, but it will be reflected in Mrs Possonchev's next question. So if you listen by chance, you will see that this is going in the exact opposite direction, but this is a situation where the parties are not allowed to cooperate, so someone who should be a party to the proceedings is not allowed to do so and the criticism is directed in the opposite direction. Here - I see that Minister Podobnik is here too - we will advocate that the matter be resolved quickly and effectively.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Ambassador Maria Pozsonec will ask the Minister of Public Administration a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u135	Thank you very much. You're right, Minister, my question is similar to that first one. I wonder: How does the administrative procedure ensure compliance with the laws on the issue of building permits for large industrial buildings? I submit that they were not taken into account in the particular case that took place in Gorički. I would like to know: What permits and consents are needed to build an industrial facility in the middle of a populated environment? How does this rule the law? How to act in cases where its provisions are not duly complied with and respected? Are our laws convincing enough? For how can it be that a permit is granted for the construction of an industrial facility without producing documentation of its environmental effects without asking for the consent of the immediate neighbours - not in the 200 - meter district, but not in the 20 - meter [20 m] district - and that the regulations were not respected? Question: "How are you going to fix this construction now that this village is destroyed?" This large building is built in the middle of the village in the neighbourhood of cultural home, church, sports playground. Well, it actually ruined the whole village's life. Thank you. Who will bear the consequences and costs?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u137	According to my information, the administrative unit Murska Sobota 23.2. this year issued a building permit for the construction of the biogas plant to KG Rakičan-Ekoteh d.o.o., on the basis of the applicable spatial acts, also based on local information issued by the Municipality of Moravske Tplice, meaning that the municipality agreed that such construction was permitted in this area and on this plot. The investor has obtained all the necessary consent from infrastructure managers in the area and also the natural security agreement of the Environment Agency. The problem that arose in this process was the problem of foreign participation, because some people have submitted a request for renewal because they were not involved in the procedure as parties, and the administrative unit has rejected this request. However, it rejected or rejected the fact that, according to the administrative unit, it was submitted too late, so that it was not filed within one month of the initiation of the procedure. The administrative unit took the view that, when this intervention began and a construction board was installed, everyone in the area had been informed since that day of this project and had counted this one-month period. Some have also complained about this decision and the Ministry of the Environment has accepted these complaints, so that the administrative unit now decides once again on the status of the party in the process of certain neighbours of the borders or surrounding areas of this biogas plant. The matter is therefore not yet fully resolved in the resolution of the administrative unit, and I am confident that the Administrative Unit of Murska Sobota will rescue it properly and legally because the staff and management of this administrative unit are fully entrusted.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Pozson's emissary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u139	Is it possible that a common mortal can't build a hive in his own backyard, but they put here a few feet of walls and a factory without having documentation of environmental impacts? Who brings the consequences because I don't think people will see their 800-year-old village destroyed to the end? Because it's not gonna be possible to live there. Then our marriages are worth nothing if possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u141	Actually, I don't have anything to add. I can only say that what can and cannot be done in a space is decided by the local community, i.e. the municipality, the mayor, the municipal councilors, and that the administrative unit issues a building permit in accordance with spatial acts. Even the fact that a mere mortal, as you said, cannot lay an ear on his plot - I don't know what that claim might mean. Each person may do with his own land what is permitted by the rules and what is provided for in the spatial acts. That's what happened in this case. If that is not the case, see, I do not decide on this matter at the second stage, I do not decide on the complaint, the Ministry of Environment and Space decides on the complaint. If it turns out that the administrative unit has wrongly decided that it has therefore violated spatial acts in order to avoid such interference under these spatial acts, then the decision will be repealed. But as far as I am aware of the case, I think that in this case all the consent of all infrastructure managers has actually been obtained, including the Municipality of Moravske Toplice has agreed, and what more than this I find very difficult to comment on.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The following question will be raised by Member Vila Trophynik, Minister of Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Dear Mr. Secretary! The National Assembly also included the so-called high-speed roads in the National Road Construction Programme. Since the construction of the latter is not in line with the envisaged deadlines, I ask you: What is the realisation of their construction, in particular the one envisaged by the 2007 annual highway development and renewal programme? What will you do to accelerate their construction? Given the limited time available on this rather extensive issue, I will try to focus on one of the roads that is specific in the Slovenian space. The Hajdina-Ormož Fast Road was the first fast road and was the only one to be included in the National Road Construction Programme until 2002 after the completion of the programme. For this road, an international invitation to tender was made for the stage of Gorišnica-Ormož and a signed contract was signed six years ago. For the next stage of Gorišnica-Ormož, which is also an integral part of the 2007 plan, all documents were produced, except for the location plan, which is likely to be under way. So I ask you: Will you put at least one section of Gorišnica-Ormož, for which a building permit is issued and a signed contract in a drawer somewhere on Dars for six years, into the 2008 program? And if you can answer me: What was done on the sections of the previously told, Gorišnica-Markovci, and on the sections Videm-Ptuj and Ptuj-Markowci, which are still at issue due to missing local plans? On this issue, the meeting was held on 18 April at the ILO meeting held by your predecessor and the Minister for Environment and Space. Three conclusions were adopted there, for which all the time has passed. I also ask: What about the implementation of these three conclusions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister of Transport for answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Trophynik. So, as far as the Hajdin-Ptuj-Ommož fast road is concerned, this, as you yourself said, is divided into several sections, which are currently in different stages of construction or preparation for construction. According to the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, construction of fast road is foreseen in the years until 2009. It was built and dedicated to transport by Ormož, which was dedicated to transport on 18 May 2007 to the 3.7 km section of the Hajdin-Ptuj two-way fast road. An integral part of the department is also a quality Puhov bridge, a new bridge across the Drava River near Ptuj. For the sections of Ptuj-Markovci, Markovci-Gorišnica and Gorišnica-Ormož, a project and technical documentation is envisaged under the annual development and renewal plan for 2007. At the Ptuj-Markovci section, as you probably know, there is a problem flow through the Sturmovci landscape park. Due to the negative opinion of the competent nature protection agency in terms of conservation of nature, placing in space has resulted in delays which threaten the realization of construction deadlines from the national section programme from Ptuj to Ormož. All representatives of the municipalities take the route south of the Ptuj Lake via Sturmovts and reject the northern route. Of course, an early agreement on the corridor is needed, but I must say that at the government visit last week we have already indicated in some way that we will have to deal seriously with the northern version of one of the variants, because south of all these protections that are on the southern route, this path will not be possible. At Markovci-Gorišnica section, the location plan was adopted by the Municipality of Markovci and Gorišnica with a decree in 2000, but due to the unchosen route on the previous section of the route it will be necessary to redefine the course, especially where both routes will be connected. Also at the section Gorišnica-Ormož, a location plan with a municipal decree has already been adopted, and a total of just over 95% of the surface area has been bought out. Since a building permit has been obtained, construction can be initiated immediately after the signing of the construction contract and the provision of financial resources. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Complementary question, colleague Trofenik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u147	I can't be satisfied with the answer. Although I understand you because you are not yet in this responsible business, I would still expect your colleagues to provide you with more accurate information. First, the contract for Ormož - Gorišnica has been signed since 2001. Indeed, this information has been hidden for a long time, but it is true, and it is extremely inappropriate that the predecessors did not inform you of this because you take responsibility. As far as the Northern version is concerned, because it is a limited time - Mr. Minister, this road is a rabble. A road has been built to a road that does not exist because of - not to say political crime in the past. Therefore, I advise you to be well informed, objectively, that you will not fall into inappropriate business by your own responsibility. The connecting road of the city of Ptuj, which is needed with the Puhova bridge, was in a strange way like the connecting road to the road Videm-Markovci, which is simply not. It's unimaginable. And now, in order for some power centers to justify these illegal decisions in the past, they are trying to lead you to the so-called Northern variant. And don't sit down. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Natura 2004, because I personally handed over all the necessary documents to the National Coordinator for Natura 2000 in order not to see what some have deliberately used as an excuse not to build the road. [[...]] I hope that in the future you will at least give me specific answers in writing to specific questions, in particular: Why is there no construction where the contracts are signed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I'll be with you in a minute. So, as far as this is concerned, what you mentioned in the end is the southern and northern variant. Now, the protections that were made in the southern variant - and I'm talking about Natura 2000 and habitat protection, the Birds Directives and so on - were defined, as far as I know, in 2004. It is true - that they have already placed themselves in the area of the southern version of the route before, but look, there are also a number of procedures in Europe at the moment when countries have failed to take these protections into account and are being sued by the European Union. That's just a fact that we have to take into account. Now go head-to-head through the wall and push into the southern version - I myself am more logical and smart. But with my head through the wall, I don't think it's a good idea to go, so we're gonna have to deal with the local community and find one smart option on the northern route. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Comrade Trofenic, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u151	Thank you. In view of the content of the answer and the unbundling of this question in the Slovenian space, which has no case, I will, of course, propose, in accordance with Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that this answer or this issue be discussed. As I know that this will not be voted out, although it would be absolutely necessary to clear up the facts and the past in the Slovenian motorway programme, I will, of course, take care of other, more effective instruments to shed light on this issue, which, as I have said responsiblely, is on the verge of political and other crime. But since I have no other choice here, nor do I accept such answers, I will simply propose a formal discussion, although this will not be accepted, although, once again, I stress, this is a unique case in 16-year history of the construction of Slovenian motorways and would require a more detailed review from a wide body, not just a political body. Thank you very much. Once again, I propose a vote on the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u152	Thank you very much. That's what's gonna happen. At this point, I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 6 p.m. with the consideration of point 1.A. We will continue with our parliamentary questions in accordance with the agenda adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u153	Dear Members and honourable Members, all present at the Hall! Please calm down and take your seats. We move on to the 1A-point of the agenda - the requirement to vote on the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On 15 November 2007, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, submitted to the National Assembly a request for a vote on the confidence of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, to further explain the request. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u154	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members, Citizens and Citizens! In the history of the Slovenian state, it is the first time that the President of the Government has proposed a vote on a confidential person on the basis of that article of the Constitution, which allows him to do so without putting this issue to any concrete decision. For this reason, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopted in the previous term, also give me the opportunity to further explain this request or proposal. Allow me to begin by summarizing the chronology or events that led to this proposal. As you know, last Sunday was the presidential election or the second round of presidential elections. On that same date, the National Assembly decided to call for a referendum on the ownership of the Triglav Insurance Company, and this referendum request was made by the State Council on the basis of a proposal submitted to the Council by one of the opposition's councillors, namely, the Social Democrats. This referendum decision was implemented and the proposal advocated by the Government was rejected. Now is not the time and place for us to go into a concrete debate on what the proposal was, the fact is that it was rejected. The fact is that the Government has lost this referendum meeting, the fact is that we have analysed this result, and the fact is that every responsible government draws certain consonants from such a result. In any event, the government did not participate in the presidential elections. We reject the interpretation that there was also a vote on the government in the presidential elections. Various government parties supported different candidates, everyone has the right to be defined, and these interpretations are not well-intentioned. Nor does he hold that anyone would underestimate the results. Voters are right, they've decided by their conscience on the basis of the information they have or have. Everyone who has voted has fulfilled their civil right and it is in itself understood that the Government respects these results. Never, anywhere, has any government representative said anything else. On Tuesday we simply found out what the situation was, and that was followed by my statement. This statement was adopted with great surprise in the work of the political public. In fact, in the same part of the political public, which had already called on the government on Sunday, on Monday in particular, to resign on its own. There was virtually no one from the opposition political spectrum or among the main commentators who would not have tried to interpret the outcome of the presidential elections in any way in this direction that the Government had been defeated. Of course it doesn't. The government lost the referendum - we frankly admitted it, analysed it and said that all options were open. No one, nor I, as Prime Minister of the Government, nor any of my ministers, have said that the government will resign. But we said there was this possibility within the others. If I say that all options are open, then the chances are open that nothing will happen to the government, and that the government will resign. I've introduced the entire range. The government, because of this assessment, and also because we have made it clear that we are doing further analysis and that all options are open, has not stopped working. It's government, not just normal, but it's worked hard all this time. In fact, the second half of the political space began to deal with this and there was some confusion. Those who called on the government on Sunday and Monday to resign suddenly turned the board and began to speak to the Government’s resignation as an irresponsible act. All you have to do is read or view the Sunday and Monday reports and then on Tuesday and Wednesday, and we will see or see what kind of plant it took. On Wednesday, this was particularly intense. It is already that we have said that all options are open and that the Government can also give up - in any normal democratic country, the government can resign at any time - has been declared to cause crises, to behave irresponsiblely, to flee from responsibility, to recognize incompetence and so on. On Thursday, I called on the opposition's parties, whether they think the Government is weak and that the government coalition is weak, this government coalition is strengthened - the doors were opened at the beginning of the mandate and are open today - or if they think the government is so weak and that it has indeed lost elections on Sunday - what they said on Sunday and Monday - to put in constructive confidence or not, let the Government only express its intention to form a government that it has all the professional and other options to lead well the executive power, to submit or announce a majority of confidence in Parliament and that this government will withdraw itself. I told you why. Within two hours, both tenders were rejected. They said, "We don't have a mandate to go to this government." This government has been given a mandate in this National Assembly. As the president of the party who received the most votes, I received a mandate as Prime Minister of the Government and to form a government and I invited all the parties to do so in 2004. In this Government, those parties who have accepted this offer do not participate but those who have rejected this offer for various reasons at the time. I would not repeat now how and what happened and turned around in 2004 after the elections. Suddenly, within 4 days, we experienced a paradoxical situation, including paradoxical developments: first the call for the government to step down; once we have offered this opportunity, we have the same people, the same political forces, that this is irresponsible. Then we offered them cooperation in the government - they said they did not want to participate in the government, that they did not have a mandate. Each party shall have a mandate to participate in the Government. Colleagues from DeSUS have four Members in this National Assembly, four times less than the Social Democrats. By this logic, they have a four-fold mandate. So when we talk about the mandate to participate in the government, all the parties elected to Parliament have this mandate. We said, "Set up your government." 10 Members may lodge a constructive non-trust. If that happens, then whoever filed it will stand for this pay phone and have five hours to explain this proposal and I will sit in the bench and listen. And that didn't happen. That is why I have decided after the consultations to propose to this high assembly a vote on the confidentiality. The proposal has not yet been well sent to the National Assembly, by the way, no medium of explanation has published, but the answer has already come: "We will not support the Secretary because the Government is weak, but let the government continue." We had a fourth turn in the fifth day of last week. Now, if anyone can understand this logic, then I'll be very happy to be able to explain things to me. In the discussions I had and which the public could follow on the topic of the state in the country in the European Union leadership coalition, I also talked about the state of the coalition, but I never said that the situation in the coalition was the reason for the vote on the confidential, but my words on the black were not well dried, the opposition explained that I had already invested my confidential position in the coalition. That's just not true! The situation in the coalition, as it is now, has been before, is not ideal, they have been problems, they have also been in previous coalitions, we are trying to reach consensus, agreement, coalition works at least as well as previous coalitions. Of course, this reinterpretation was when a person says something, and then others explain what he meant instead, and what is repeated and comes into the headlines and breaking news, this work is intended to cover up the underlying reasons, although this reason was very clear already in my statement on Tuesday and also written in a proposal for a vote on a confidential one, which I hope you have at least got reproduced because not in the newspapers or in the public. This basic reason why I decided, on the basis of such developments and after consultations, to propose a vote on the Government's trust is the disintegration of the fundamental consensus that Slovenia should meet the historic challenge facing the whole country; and because of the disintegration of this fundamental consensus obstructing and impeding the Government, in particular abroad, to carry out the tasks that need to be accomplished in order to be successful in doing so. Before voting on the Government at all, this High Council took a virtually unanimous decision that Slovenia accepts the offer and is ready to lead the European Union as the first of the new Member States in the first half of 2008, although not the largest, but as the most successful of these. You, ladies and gentlemen, voted for this before the government of this coalition took office on 3 December 2004! Until September this year, too, it has been shown in practice that the commitment resulting from this vote is true. And on May 17th this year - not only coalition but also two opposition parties with the most members of the opposition - we signed an agreement on cooperation in the preparation and management of the European Union. The agreement expresses some political will to cooperate to be externally united, but does not limit this agreement to any criticism of the Government on the domestic floor or requires the opposition to give up its control or other opposition instruments. In this mandate, these have been strengthened, this coalition has changed the practice of past mandates and, in this mandate, opposition parties are chairing and holding the majority of these bodies. Never before, when we sat in the opposition for 12 years, did you leave that behind? This coalition voted and no one takes these functions from you next year. At the beginning of this mandate, we have also invited opposition parties to propose people to supervisory authorities, supervisory councils of companies that are majority state-owned. As long as the main bodies were available, or as long as the key bodies in these seven-eight companies were formed at the beginning of the mandate, the opposition participated. Today, representatives of the opposition also sit in the supervisory bodies of the Capital Society, the Compensation Company, the Slovenian Power Plant Holding and many other state-owned companies. This has never been possible in previous mandates. Nor does anyone deny or withdraw these supervisory roles to the opposition because of the European Union's leadership. In early September, however, something happened that indicated that this fundamental consensus that the historic challenge to which Slovenia has to respond is simply falling apart. In the biggest opposition party, they accepted an assessment, which even though it was false, if it remained behind the domestic fences - I have nothing against -, they would clear up these evaluations here. It is normal for the opposition to otherwise assess the situation as a coalition; it is normal for it to also sometimes write excessive claims. Even in this National Assembly, things have been said that sound very bad, but this is parliamentary democracy. Things face, weigh, reveal what is true and what is not, especially in the long run. This formulation, which came to an assessment of the situation of the Social Democrats, was not intended to clarify matters at home, but was not intended to correct things if they were actually wrong, but to continue in something that could not be said other than the drastic discreditation of this country. This assessment states: "The ruling coalition by means of capital links influences the software management of some of its newspapers, and directly and through capital it has a decisive influence on other public publications. Journalists concerned about work and existence exercise self-censorship. Media silence on the Government of Opposing and Critical Opinions or sanctioning journalists is a way to account for the government coalition with other thinkers." Now, if the Slovenian Democratic Union, at a time when there was no democracy in these premises, had taken such a position in 1989 as the then Communist Union, the Slovenian Democratic Union would have seen this as a matter of bias. Now this has happened in 2007, at a time when Slovenia is in the European Union and in NATO and when it is possible in the middle of the night without a battery to prove that these things are not being held. But as we say, as long as the matter remains at hand, there is no problem, let's talk about it, next year or any time, there can be elections before. Things will face up to the debates, as soon as possible, specific cases will need to be cited for such claims. And the voters will eventually weigh. The problem is that this lie has spread purposely across Europe and the world. On 10 December, a so-called press petition was signed and sent to the world, accusing the Government of exactly the same delict as an assessment of the situation of the Social Democrats. The signatories of this petition themselves wrote: "The letter of content relating to censorship and government pressure against journalists has already been received by the presidents of the countries, parliaments and governments of all EU members, many NGOs and media institutions around the world." They conclude: "On 1 January 2008, Slovenia will take over the EU Presidency. What will be the message to EU citizens if they are chaired by the country?" and so on. The Presidency of such a country, not the Presidency of the government of Janez Janša, but the Presidency of such a country may be a worrying sign of the present, but even more of the future of the EU. I've collected a few hundred posts of lies from European and global media back there. If you go to the website www.peticeproticensuri.com - no divorces - this text is published in Slovenian and English, reactions that have come to this text to the society of Slovenian journalists, one of the associations of Slovenian journalists, have been published. From what is seen on this website, it is clear that the so-called media censorship in Slovenia has become a political theme in some other EU Member States. This petition was sent to the world at a time when editorials, NGOs, in short, all those who have anything to do with informing the public are preparing to present the future EU presidency. The country that will lead the Union, the Union, which accounts for almost 500 million people, representing a global player, who is an accomplice to the United States, China, India, Brazil - most of these summits will be led by Slovenia, this country in the following year and all interested in what the situation is in this country. During this time of searching for information in Slovenia, this accusation occurred, and it came from residential species! Of those who, of course, make these contributions in Slovenia, are close to them. Everyone trusts: the doctor trusts the doctor, the teacher, the journalist. They didn't check much of this stuff, but they just wrote it down. The only concrete statement in this petition mentions the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. This law has indeed been submitted by this Government, but it is true that a referendum has been requested, and it is true that it was eventually adopted by the people. But that's not what the petition says. It says the new government imposed a new media law. But let's just leave it. The main problem is that there is no mention of a referendum on this law. The problem is that this happened in 2005. This law was adopted in 2005, the referendum was adopted two years ago, and now Slovenia is being sued in the world after two years; in a time which is extremely sensitive, as is likely to never again be in the history of this country. If you go to the website that I mentioned earlier, if at that time the cases have not already been withdrawn or reduced, yesterday there have been answers from various institutions, parliaments, government representatives who received this petition, as well as from the reactions of the state-owned journalists organisations who have taken this appeal seriously, because the same vocabulary used by the opposition in Belarus is the same qualifications for the Slovenian government as used for the regime in Belarus. No wonder it caused the excitement. And this text has also spread across their networks through European and other press organisations. In some countries, there is no local media that would not have received this petition, of course, translated into their language. And almost no one has ever let what it says about Slovenia go. Some had major problems, many, not many, but some of the correspondents of foreign newspapers came to check the situation, but again came to the Society of Journalists and to the University of Social Sciences and to the Liberal Academy, where they made the same observations and received the same confirmation. Of course, he would be dishonest if he did not say that, among the first of these petitions, he also supported the former or still formal president of the country, who, at the expense of his own country and his own government, has recently made the same observations in foreign media. And if anyone else who tried to check and questioned these charges read Mr Drnovsk's statements in the London Times, then he was confirmed to be true. So far from politics being involved in these matters. And I also say here once again, what I have said publicly, I have been warned by some colleagues, the presidents of socialist governments, that the same information is spreading through political circles in Slovenia as it is in this petition or as it is in the assessment of the state of the Social Democrats. They told me that, of course, it is not about assessing the state of Social Democrats, it is about a press petition because it seems more credible. But the circle is so complete. Some political party accepts an assessment that would not be problematic if we discuss matters here, face opinions, see where specific cases are, fix matters if there is a problem. No! No! This matter was transmitted as a civil society position abroad and then the policy that first adopted this assessment refers to the position of civil society going abroad, the Czech - journalists in Slovenia complain that this is the case. I think that today a group of Members in the European Parliament has denied that a member of the Socialists in the European Parliament would say such a thing at any time. Nor did anyone accuse him, nor did anyone talk about the European Parliament. This is just as much as I would deny that this government wants to rehabilitate Milosevic. No one suggested it. I can still deny it. We don't want that. But this has not been denied by those circles where things are actually spreading. Of course it's not just that. Under this petition, two journalists - no problem with this, everyone has the right to sign any petition, in fact, even if things are so different from reality. The Constitution guarantees this right, the Government is the last person to deny it to anyone, but it soon proved that in practice one of the press associations is leading the matter, and all technical operations are there, although not all members of society have signed it. The matter has proved even more problematic in the last days when some of my colleagues have come to me or to my colleagues who are signed on this petition, and we have mostly heard three things. Firstly, no one told them that this petition would be sent abroad to all these addresses. Nobody. But this has been presented as an expression of state solidarity to some colleagues who have been transferred or who are no longer in such well-paid places as they have been in previous assignments. In short, to these 570 signatories, at least not to everyone, no one said that this petition would be sent abroad. But it was sent abroad before it was sent to Slovenian institutions, significantly earlier! I have here a letter signed by Mr Zgaga and Mr Šurc, bearing the date 26 September, meaning 16 days after the matter went abroad, and in this letter it says: "We are sending you a petition which we have already sent to 300 addresses abroad, to the heads of government, to the states..." etc. So it would be normal, regardless of whether I disagree with these allegations, to really deny them, but if anyone thinks so, it would be normal to send this petition to the home institutions, to have a debate and only if it turns out that the problems are so big and no one wants to solve them, then this matter is sent to the other institutions that respond. But that wasn't the point, but it was the other way around. However, this is not the only thing I say, or this censoring charge, which has gone through various channels from Slovenia and today affects the reputation of Slovenia in the world. We have received two requests from the European Parliament that Slovenia organise a conference on the Roma issue during the Presidency in Slovenia. Two members of the Liberal Democracy in the European Parliament and several of their colleagues who have signed this have been signed. First, let me say that this request came at a time when the calendar of events in the first half of next year in Slovenia is full. There is almost no reserve for unforeseeable events, for which it is necessary to have a reserve. That's one problem. Another problem is that more than 12 million Roma live in the European Union in the European Union. More than 12 million Roma. Of which in Slovenia there are between 6 and 8 thousand. It has now been presented as if the Roma problem in Europe is concentrated on Slovenia. If we organised this conference in Slovenia, it would be in front of Ambrus and the Strojan family. And the impression that came from Europe because of information coming from Slovenia that the country behaves discriminatoryly to the Roma population, but the truth is just the opposite. But to finish the story with this conference. At a time when we were looking for a solution, because we are not afraid to organise this debate, but it would be unfair for this country to take on its reputation to take on what people can look at, say, European media about developments with Roma settlements in Rome, or Bulgaria, or Romania, or Hungary, or Slovakia, where there are half to one and a half million Roma and many other European countries. In Slovenia there are practically at least those who have a Roma population. It would be unfair for this country to be accompanied by pictures from Ambrus, images that have been deliberately interpreted or manipulated, and suddenly in Europe and the world, as if the Roma issue were concentrated on all the weight in Slovenia. This does not mean that Slovenia is fleeing this debate. During the Slovenian Presidency, this is the final agreement with the President of the European Commission, Slovenia will co-organise such a conference, not in Slovenia, but in Brussels. Since this is a European problem, Slovenia's share here is very small. There is a direct reason for this conference, however, developments in Italy. Because there was a similar case as it did in Ambrus, and the Italian government's reaction, if you saw bulldozers, was significantly different. In Slovenia, the whole country dealt with the problem of a Roma family. In Rome, an illegal Roma settlement was removed because of a crime similar to ours. I don't want to say here that we should do the same. I just want to say that Slovenia is not a country that has camps for Roma and that it is not a country that takes over the weight of the key Roma problem in Europe. That would be unfair. Especially in view of the fact that, after many years, the Constitution had already required it in 1991, it had adopted a Romani law in this mandate, which placed certain instruments in the hands of local communities as well as the Government for the gradual resolution of these issues. If we look at how many social benefits the Roma population in Slovenia receives, and compare that with the receipts of this population in other countries, you will see that Slovenia is in the European peak. Slovenia shall not infringe the rights of the Roma community, nor shall it violate it. But since last December, I have had to explain this at least a hundred times to the speakers, especially the press, what the situation is. And in some ways no one understands that the country that has 6,000 Roma or that it is in a country that has 6,000 to 8,000 Roma and where they are trying to solve problems, I am not saying that everyone is saved, I am not saying that one of them is not suffering, but that it is not possible to accuse Slovenia of violating the human rights of a national community, even though this information has gone away. And at least a hundred times, I had to explain it. But they all referred to Slovenian sources and not to foreign sources. All information on this went abroad from Slovenia. Thank God, some who are mermaids for the evaluation also came to look at the situation and gave a balanced assessment. The Roma community also admits that this government has done something. At the time of the outbreak, the Minister of this Government was involved in this and was accused of introducing segregation at the primary school in Brussels, received the thanks of the Union of Roma Slovenia, their highest recognition, on 12 October this year. Minister of this Government accused of dramatically violating the human rights of Roma abroad with charges coming from Slovenia. On 4 October 2007, a good month ago, the Liberal Academy of Slovenia, a college of Mr Školč, who had previously asked for names, sent to the European Association of Prosecutors in The Hague, apologized if I had not translated the title correctly, the charge against the Slovenian State Prosecutor's Office for the Roma issue or the Strojan case, if the Slovenian Prosecutor's Office had not acted correctly because it had not sanctioned the Slovenian police for the conduct of Strojan. On 4 October this year, a heinous accusation is being made in The Hague by the Liberal Academy. He apologizes for the fact that I had not had this information before my colleague Školč's question was sent; every day we were surprised by something. Slovenia has often been in a situation where it was extremely important for us to step together, to stick together, not to wash our home laundry abroad when the situation in this National Assembly was reversed. When the parties now mostly in the coalition have been in opposition, it has never happened that an accusation, czech, such a country as Slovenia does not deserve membership in the European Union, from Slovenia. On the contrary, we have helped with all our efforts to achieve this goal. The same when it comes to other important national projects. Now he has gone to Europe and to the world to appeal that such a country, Slovenia, is a threat, a threat to the present and future of the European Union. Can the government of such a country, which is accused of waiting every day for ten new articles and records on this subject to work well in European media? Since it takes a lot of time, I personally need to spend a lot of time explaining to the press that things are not like this, and I ask them to present specific cases to which I can answer them. And then they read me this petition, which I can answer very convincingly at home, but I cannot be sure of answering the foreign speakers who don't read Slovenian newspapers who don't know that they need to look for a positive reference to this government with a blank eye, who don't know what the actual ownership structure of Slovenian media is, and who doesn't know who actually knows who's bright and dressed, who called on national television in the previous term and how they've edited broadcasts and journals, and they do it sometimes. And so on. This is difficult to explain to foreigners who have lived in some normal media space for a long time. What is happening now is knives in the back of Slovenian institutions, which should have support at home when it comes to these key challenges. It was part of these observations to which it is necessary to answer. The second part of these readings is that Slovenia is violating human rights. On the basis of similar information comes the account of solving the issue deleted. Three themes are: The government censors the media and is a threat to the future of the European Union, the government violates the human rights of the Roma community as a whole - this is a mild question or claim, and it is harsh that we have camps for the Roma - and the third is to violate the human rights of the so-called deleted. I will not repeat the entire history, but this issue has been resolved by the three previous governments. We know the history of the Constitutional Court's decision, the referendum, with a very clear result and a message, and we also know what the actual situation was in 1991 and 1992, and we know that this country generously offered citizenship at its birth to all who wanted it. She didn't say no to anyone. Anyone who had a permanent residence in this country has been granted citizenship. All the other statuses could have been handled by anyone if he wanted to. If anyone was unable to regulate this status, if, I don't know, he was unable to access documents that were elsewhere in the Balkans because of the war, we recognize that he could have been wronged and that these things need to be corrected individually. On the other hand, to agree that Slovenia, at its birth, wiped out 18,000, now everyone is writing their citizens, and it is simply not possible because that is not true. Indeed, the decisions of the Constitutional Court stipulating that the problem must be resolved in the package. It is also true that we have the result of a referendum that speaks differently. It is also true that this country has the practice of dealing with such a complex situation. It was used in this National Assembly. We had a referendum on the majority electoral system, we had a decision by the Constitutional Court after they refused to implement this referendum. And the Constitutional Court's decision said that the majority electoral system should be in place in Slovenia. Do we have a majority electoral system in Slovenia today? Even though it clearly states in the decision who won the referendum. We do not have this majority electoral system, because this National Assembly has established by constitutional act that we will continue to have a proportional electoral system. And we have proposed, because of a similar conflict between the decisions of the various institutions, that we also resolve this issue by constitutional law, so that we will deal with each individual case in concrete terms, and if injustice has been done, we will also correct this injustice. At the same time, which is the greatest danger, limit the possibility of payment of drastic damages, which threatens to occur if a decision of the Constitutional Court is implemented in the package. At the beginning of this mandate, we have also held several consultations later, it has been said that the constitutional law is an acceptable solution. The more time went by, the more it was just words. Suddenly, there was no more support, and the more hasty it was, because we want to solve this issue, the more speculative it got. And in the end, the government had to propose this law itself. And since a two-thirds majority is needed, since most of these are not, this question will remain open. Some want to keep it open so that the government or Slovenia will also be on the pranger side. The terror of the media, self-censorship. Because of this terror carried out by the Government, the media is conducting self-censorship. Man doesn't know if he'd take it with tears or with laughter. We are looking for articles that can also be read about the government, but at the same time this government controls all the media. This government controls all the media, but at the same time orders those media it controls to criticize the government. Well, that's pretty much the situation. Pressurize the press. There is also no specific case. If he was, maybe he was somewhere he was right, we could talk about him. But not for self-censorship nor for pressures is there any concrete case. The government does not control the media, does not have ownership shares which could have any impact in media houses and do not carry out censorship. The ownership status, or who owns the media in Slovenia, is more or less accessible if you make a little effort on the Internet. In the material that you will receive as an additional explanation of this request for a confidential person, it is specifically stated for all the most important media, who owns it. And you can see roughly or very precisely what is the political color of owners pacing and dressing in the media space in Slovenia. But first, let's sweep away from our own doorstep. The Republic of Slovenia has indirectly, through the Slovenian Compensation Society, minority stakes in Vecer - 10%, via Mobil, which is owned by the majority state of Telekom - 2% in Dnevnik, via Luka Koper, HIT and Intereurope - a total of 30% in Primorski novices. There are 918 printed media in Slovenia. The Republic of Slovenia, with the exception of national radio and television, has no ownership shares in digital media. The Republic of Slovenia owns the Triglav Insurance Company, which is the majority owner of Triglav investment d.o.o., and this company is the minority owner of Info TV. After an analysis by the Government of Communications Office for the period August 2007 - October 2007, 1580 negative contributions were written on the government and its work in the media, accompanied by public video clipping. During the period between August 2003 and October 2003, there were negative articles on the Government 689. One less time. In September 2007, I do not think anyone will say that the government is controlling it, but in September 2007, two issues were also addressed to media autonomy. According to a polytbarometer survey, data show that most respondents in Slovenia believe that the accuracy of reporting for the current government is higher than it was years ago. The IRSA Institute analysed Slovenian media in relation to economic and social reforms. Findings: The government's negative media presentation as a whole or the Prime Minister of the Government is far superior to the positive, not even the smallest indicators on the issue that the media have recently or the mandate of this government, due to alleged pressures or other reasons, could become a government, but might first suggest a possible opposite trend. The Peace Institute, an interlocutor of many foreign correspondents who come to us, has identified in a study on national television - the programming guidelines and the method of reporting have not changed in the last two years. The evaluations of international organisations assessing the state of media freedom, as well as domestic analyses and research in this area, show that Slovenia belongs to a group of countries with the highest marks of media freedom and the state of democracy. These are the following analyses and assessments. In 2007 the Commission prepared an independent "Freedom House" and the analysis relates to the transition countries or countries. After this analysis, Slovenia is included in the group of countries with independent media. In the group of countries studied by Freedom House, it is said to be transitional, Slovenia is the first in terms of the overall level of democracy and media freedom in the region. The same organization also carries out a continuous analysis of Media Freedom - Freedom of the press, in which other countries are assessed, not only transition countries, and this analysis shows or ranks Slovenia as the first group of countries with good media freedom, in addition to Australia, Austria, Hungary, Japan and France. Many European countries, many members of the European Union are listed below. Reporters without borders in their 2006 report include Slovenia in a group of countries with the most regulated media spheres. Also for 2007 we find in the Reporters Without Borders that the situation in the field of media freedom in Slovenia is marked as good. Worse than us, France, Spain, Italy, the United States, Austria and others are ranked after this assessment. Various analyses of domestic and international institutions have come to a fairly uniform conclusion that the level of media democracy and freedom in Slovenia is at an appropriate and internationally comparable level. This does not mean that there are no isolated cases where any of the journalists come into a situation they do not want. I doubt there's a country where this doesn't happen. But there is no country in the world where 570 journalists would send an assessment, which was previously recorded in a political document by one of the political parties, that the Government in the Republic of Slovenia is conducting censorship, pressure on journalists. In particular, there is no country where 270 journalists for their own country would say that it poses a threat to the future and to the present of the European Union. You won't find this comparison. But look, let's just say that all of this would be true, let's just say that everything that's written on the petition would be true. That it is just censorship, that the pressure is that 570 journalists in Slovenia - I have to say that I did not know until a while ago that there are so many of them, does not hope to write freely. Let's just say it was true. Is that worse than trying to kill a journalist? Among us is Comrade Miro Petek, the journalist of the evening, before he ran for office for a member who was brutally attacked, beaten for his writing and almost killed. We still don't know who it is. No petition went to the world at the time that media freedom was threatened in Slovenia and almost killed their colleague. A few days ago, I think the Supreme Court, after many years of legal authority, found that Tomaž Ranz was illegally tapped or illegally accompanied by his conversations or communication without a court order. Did any petitions go to the world for wiretaps to the press? Not because of suspicion or guesswork, because of a legal decision. I didn't see her. This did not happen within the mandate of this government. If we did, we'd send a petition to Papua New Guinea. I assure you. However, since this did not happen within the mandate of this government, Mr Kos is the main star of the Slovenian diaries. The more you eavesdrop, the bigger you are. It was found in this mandate that during the previous Government thousands of individual telephone connections, non-judgmental numbers, were illegally tapped under the so-called monitoring of international links. Whenever you called abroad or whenever someone called you from abroad, they could have listened to you without ever knowing it without any court knowing it, without ever being supervised by the parliamentary supervisory board. Inside these so-called international communications were also spoken by journalists. It was also bugged to the press. Did any petitions go into the world when this came to light? No, no, no. But 570 of the feathered pens turned the story upside down, saying that this was already necessary because the opposition at the time was negotiating incidents with the neighbouring country and that it was already useful because they were caught. That's a clean lie. It was said to cover a drastic violation of human rights, which has now been proven, established, cleared, including by the reasoning of the Constitutional Court judgment. The lockers of the recordings are in the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency from this international monitoring of the links; as far as they have disappeared, I do not know. We found a van with a device that could eavesdrop on mobile phones without, clearly, any decisions. Three decisions are in the archives of the court, and the van has moved, I don't know how many, 12,000 kilometers. And there was no press petition, there was no serious question about this housing organization. Was this not also a threat to media freedom in Slovenia? None of that. But a petition, at a time when information about Slovenia is gathering, that the government is in violation of media freedom. That government. There are cases of drastic, unfair media behavior. There are also examples of censorship or self-censorship, but they are not carried out by this government, and they do not call it censorship, they call it a change in the editorial decision. This is also happening in these times. In a newspaper from which virtually the most signatories to this petition, who are suing the government for oppressing them, have made a big story out of my statement of rejected bread. On the front page with big headlines and on the inside, I think a hundred more. When I tried to explain this, I needed a lot of skill to find my statement - on the 20th page below, in the Probank commercial, at the bottom end of the quadruple. I think only those who love pets found this on page 20 of this paper. And because I said publicly that it wasn't right, I was accused of pressuring independent media. Work, certainly the most influential Slovenian diary, evening edition, October 19, 2007, if I am not mistaken, during the time before the second round of presidential elections and before the referendum, very sensitive time. I doubt Mr. Lakhovnik will see it for the first time. The first topic that was announced today in Part "Research or Listening - Guidelines for the Study of Religious Cemeteries, which students at the Faculty of Social Sciences are required by lecturer and Vice-President of Social Democrats Igor Lukšič. It requires audiences to monitor the mass and to report on the potential political activities of priests during rituals. And then in this newspaper, on the other hand, this topic is processed in journalistic terms, shown on both sides: Mr Lukšić's statement and those who disagree. But this went into the evening edition, which comes out in small loads, mainly distributed across Ljubljana, apparently also to some who were disturbed, and then went the morning edition, which, of course, goes around the country. On the first page, we still read the forecast of this same article Research or Listening, someone was not thorough. It's not in the paper. Those readers who were looking for it didn't find it at their best. Does anyone believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has intervened that this article has disappeared?Oh, my God! Of course, things did not go unnoticed; some asked what had happened. It has also been explained that the editorial board has decided that the assessment of the presidential confrontation is more important than this topic and has replaced it. There was no petition abroad because of this, and no one called it censorship, and Del's editorial board has a long list of signatories against censorship. There have been some complaints from my colleagues in the government because no corrections have been made to the allegations that were wrong. The law gives that possibility. This was immediately characterized by pressure, which was short-lived for censorship. This is one of Del's treachery. These contributions are covered, even on the following pages are similar to those written by those who are under pressure or by those who are censored by this Government. If that were true, the work would look like this, it practically wouldn't be. The case is completely reversed, as it is in reality. In the context of work editions, there is a Magnetic Week, which writes critically on all sides. The press and editor of the Maga are under pressure not to do so anymore. He may demean me because he is there at work, but specific information can be given or some have already been published. What exactly is the ownership structure of the media empire in Slovenia? I hope you've got the reproduction material from which you can see it. There are two holding companies or two conglomerates in Slovenia that issue or print, publish, broadcast most of the news, and issue magazines that generate public opinion in a way other than through the news. At the head of one holding company or conglomerate published by Dnevnik, this is the daily newspaper, Direct, this is the daily newspaper, the Sunday Diary, this is the week with the highest load, by the way, the editor of the Sunday Diary has not named or replaced this Government, Mr. Šetinc has been there for 30 years, named by the morning SZDL. They also publish in conjunction with the subsidiaries all editions of Del Revij, from Jane, Lady, Images and other very well-read weeks. And at the head of this conglomerate is Mr. Bojan Petan, President of Liberal Democracy in Brežice for a long time. This is an empire where some 100 Slovenian journalists and journalists are employed, including many signatories and signatories to this petition. I don't know if Mr Petan is still in Liberal Democracy, maybe he's in Zares or SD, but he's been president of Liberal Democracy in Brežica for a long time, so he's not a non-political person. And this conglomerate controls this part of the Slovenian media scene. There's another one at the head of the Lasko Brewery. They publish Work, In the evening they are both diary, Slovenian news, most protected diary in Slovenia, Seven days, freeman Total and a variety of editions. Two days ago, Pivovarna Laško's first man announced to the camera that he was a member of the Social Democrats. Not the Slovenian People's Party, not the New Slovenia, not the DeSUS, not the Slovenian Democratic Party, but the Social Democrats. Where are those respected colleagues from Social Democracy, the capital connections through which the government controls the media space in Slovenia and puts pressure on you and on respected journalists and journalists? In fact, among the signatories to this petition are people who are not regularly employed, journalists and journalists who are freemen on contracts who are poorly paid, and many have signed this on the basis of direct personal statements made by these people because this was necessary. In this case, the housing organisation of journalists and journalists, the press union and the Society of Journalists, in particular the press union, have done little in recent years to ensure that free journalists have some decent status, with the exception of some 20, 30 of their colleagues, who, in addition, receive very good salaries that go beyond ministerial wages or the salaries of Members, still have various advisory and pear contracts with various companies, where they receive additional thousands or ten thousand euros per month and per year. By the beginning of this government's mandate, and in some cases it still lasts, such contracts have also been concluded with many state-owned companies. I do not rule out that this is still a practice, but contracts have been signed for several years. So on this list, 570 signatories are people who pull 10,000 euros a month, and there are people who get 1,000 euros. They're not all in the same position. The press union hasn't done much for those who are actually in an unappreciative state. He organised the statement on 3 October 2004 on the day of the elections. The election was over, nobody knows why the strike was or whether the demands were met or not, and the union stopped the next day. Agitation was just until the election. Many who have struck do not know why today. I would suggest, however, that it separates the grain from the weeds, that things be assessed when it comes to such an important professional group based on facts, not based on political propaganda. That government isn't afraid of critics at its own expense. If we were afraid of critics at our expense, this government would not even swear because it swore criticism in the beach. Once again, more criticism has been demonstrated to this government - statistically, as has been the case in previous mandates. There are also criticisms that are justified. There's no government that can do anything right. There are also criticisms that are good, that are such as to draw the right conclusions, to correct matters. The criticism is absolutely necessary. I do not mind if from October or August to October this year instead of 1500 5,000 critical articles on the Government in Slovenia. I will sign immediately, provided that Slovenia is not profaned abroad. Unfortunately, we didn't have that choice. We're so worried. The government fears those attacks that do not affect the image of this government, but mainly affect the image of Slovenia. Governments are coming and going, and Slovenia remains. There will be other mandates, other governments, and there will still be this petition in the archives of European media houses with these accusations and the images that are now being published. And when Slovenia may lead the European Union in 15 or 20 years, in a different role, and again look for information about it, it will come back. Permanent damage was done. A few days ago, I heard or we all heard a statement from a former reputable politician who said that Slovenia was no match for Belarus and then added: "If there is anything Belarusian in Slovenia, this is the behaviour of the Government and its President. His attitude towards unions..." and so on. So there is nothing Belarusian about Slovenia. If there is anything in Slovenia, no one compares Slovenia with Belarus - this petition equals it. "If there is anything Belarusian in Slovenia, it is the behaviour of the government and its president." First the denial, then the confirmation in the same statement. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also part of Slovenia, as are former politicians and as all citizens. We are all part of this Slovenia. The institutions of this country represent Slovenia from the outside. No one's personalizing it outside, looking at it in person. When we go out, when we report things out, we're all Slovenia. If we claim that the Government or that the President of the Government behaves in a Belarusian way, that it is the foreign president of the Slovenian government and the government is the Slovenian government. These statements were made too easily. According to the facts, it's too easy. When I first explained the situation and announced on Tuesday, the government did something, and also said what it was about, saying that the country was discredited abroad, I got a lot of warnings when no one who went to war with the media survived. No one who tries to prove his point to someone who makes a public opinion every day can win. Maybe for two days, and then things turn around. They told me you had a bad experience. You're still being read by the Swan Sing of Slovenian Journalists. In this space in another Chamber, it is now being renovated, after the first democratic elections in April 1990, the first freely elected parliament, then the assembly, with three assemblies, was formed. The councils tried to establish the oldest Members, mostly from the then Slovenian People's Party, 70, 80 years old, ignorant politicians. There's been a lot of complications, Ljubljana TV has been taking it, commentators have been making fun of these people, some editors. I went to the pay phone and protested against this behavior. There's a tape, there's a magnetogram. I said that it was not worthy of some editors on Ljubljana TV to show the "labour singing" of party reporting and let it end. Not many days have passed, a statement on Ljubljana TV was made by Member Demos, who announced the "Lady Sing" of journalists. I wasn't talking about the press, absolutely not, I wasn't talking about all the editors, just the ones who made the oldest MPs laugh on Ljubljana TV. Then this lie was published a thousand more times. I denied her many times, but I failed. Still, even now in these days, it is calmly recorded that I had already announced the "labody song" to Slovenian journalists in 1990. I'm not making any illusions. And what I've been saying today will stay for a while, maybe there'll be an extra thought, in a few months these words will be reversed, reversed, no one will go to see the magnetogram, no pictures. More specially recorded pictures, cartoons, smiles, personal insults will be published. I came from this building earlier, some of the media photographers were lying on the floor to catch the most suitable photo they've ever published. In some edits they pay, they have internal competitions in this sense, and this battle cannot be won. And I'm not making any illusions that we will. Nothing is the same as it was after the first free elections, as far as that is concerned. This petition, which has gone abroad and which has accused Slovenia of posing a threat to the present and future of the European Union, has been responded by some 30 fellow residents of these signatories and has advocated professionalism. The ratio is approximately 570 to 30. I'm not making any illusions that it's going to change overnight. You can't win here, at least not in the short term. Things will be reversed. However, I decided to talk about these things. At one point, it is our duty not to give up. At the point, when it comes not only to the reputation of this government, but to the reputation of Slovenia. This thin line, or the thick one, was crossed here. These charges should not be sent abroad to these addresses, at least not before it comes to the home institutions before it becomes concrete and clears them. In particular, the RTV Act, which was adopted in 2005, should not therefore be problematic abroad in 2007, at a time when Slovenia is focused. That's why we asked these questions. The reputation of Slovenia in the world is something that is in our common interest. It is our duty to defend Slovenia's reputation in the world. There is no price that would not have to be paid for this, including the mandate of this government. This mandate is available. It would be fair for those who think that this government poses a threat to the present and future of the European Union or who think that a country with this government poses such a threat to choose ten signatures, to put a constructive trust, to choose another government. We'll do everything in our power to make it work. All the people working on the preparations will stay, there's no problem, if that's an assessment, we'll back off ourselves. We invited you to this. It is not true that this government is suddenly dealing with itself. And it is not true that this government has no results. Behind me are colleagues and colleagues who work night and day; some of them are burned out and gone. We're also making mistakes, and there's a lot of them that he's done and he's gone. However, to report to this team that it poses a threat to the present and future of the European Union, please! To extend this to the last local media in the European Union. When we took over this mandate, it was said that Slovenia would die out, that demographic trends were negative, that there were fewer and fewer of us. Since 2004, there have been more and more of us, and trends have turned. I'm not saying that this government has all the credit for this, but I'm sure the increase in prosperity has also affected it. After ten black years, things turned around and turned for the better. You have a specific number in the annex, a graph on the screen that shows this. Economic growth. I heard one of the opposition politicians who had cheered up and dressed behind the scenes 12 years ago that the results are now somewhere at the 2004 level, and the only inflation is higher. Nothing is higher than it was in 2004 or 2003, and economic growth is significantly higher. We were, when we negotiated the next financial perspective, according to those data between 70% and 80% of the European Union average's development. Today, Slovenia is over or will be over 90% at the end of the year. We've gone to hundreds of bureaucratic obstacles that make life easier for people. We have made extraordinary efforts to promote the Slovenian economy abroad, and significantly more of these markets have been opened than ever before. This government is the first government in history to curb employment in the state administration; red tape has grown dramatically before, as well as funds for it. This was the first government in history to drastically reduce public spending by 3%, a real result. When Demos’s government fell, public spending rose by a few percentage points in 1992 in two months. It's only now that we've somehow fixed it. We've entered the euro area. On 22 December this year, the internal borders of the European Union will fall, there will be no more borderline visible, or border controls at the borders between Slovenia, Italy, Austria and Hungary. The threat was that the withdrawal of the Schengen border would take two or more years. Slovenia is the one, the Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia was the one who organised the new members to create technical possibilities. We've expanded the Schengen Information System 1 and the borders will be cleared. In fact, on the same day that we celebrate this achievement, you will be filing an intervention against this minister, who is supposed to be responsible for the conduct of security services, even though he proposed in due time the law that regulated matters fell through the branch of the State Council. So much for the solid majority of this coalition. Since the vote in the National Assembly, this Government has made a huge effort to accept the offer to lead the European Union in the first half of 2008. Not all of these measures have been visible, but Slovenia is ready today. Nor were the measures for independence that the Demos Government had invested from plebiscite to June 1991. When the war broke out, we won. A few weeks before the war, the government was accused of not being ready to eat weed, not knowing what would happen. None of this happened. But the measures were not visible. And even now, they're not, but they're making a huge effort. This government has tried to build alliances through a coalition on national issues of importance. We signed a development partnership. This partnership has produced good results on many points, but partnership requires honesty and also credibility. Within this partnership, we have fully aligned the resolution on the development of higher education. All of it. Mr Igor Luksic, Vice-President of the Social Democrats, signed - it is a pity that I am not here, but otherwise this has been published - that the resolution is harmonised and supported. When she was invested in the National Assembly, her colleague, Mrs Potata, requested the resignation of the Minister of Higher Education on account of this resolution. Cooperation therefore requires credibility. I do not want to go into all the moves that are being signed to question, as did the signing of the border between the Slovenian and Croatian governments in previous mandates, when the late Prime Minister has now signed the Croatian agreement and has not been ratified and his own party members have voted against it. Now this credibility is at about the same level. When you give your word, when you sign things, you have to hold it, otherwise there's no partnership. So, respectable! Since its independence, Slovenia has had or has been marked by an ambition for Slovenia to even know that Slovenia exists, that it would be known that, as our interests, we have sought allies, that we have sought the favor of various centres of power in Europe and the world. The challenge ahead of us, as we say in leading the European Union, is more than that. It is the issue of Slovenia as EU leaders and thus its most pronounced entry into the world stage. This is the role that the Slovenian people have not yet played in their history. And that's a positive role. There was a lot about Slovenia when it was at war. Nobody invested in Slovenia because of that writing. Slovenia will now lead the EU. For this fateful half-year, Slovenia and Slovenia will be placed in the centre of Europe and also the world. Slovenia will lead EU summits with third countries, Latin America and the Caribbean, with the United States, with the Russian Federation and numerous other summits where we will represent the EU. I do not imagine the situation as it is now when I come from a meeting with a colleague, the President of the Government of another European country or from a bilateral summit of the EU, when I have talks, a press conference or an interview for European media, and when the Presidency of Slovenia is not interested in when it is not possible to talk about the development of Europe and the future, but why the Slovenian Government is suppressing or censoring the media space in Slovenia must be answered. This is an impossible situation. I have already said that governments come and go, the results remain, the image remains, the reputation of a country or the disrepute. Especially when a few years have passed, no one around the world will say that a government has led the EU. Who remembers that? But they remember the states. There will be talk about what this country is like, what Slovenia is like and how it has carried out this project. Until this September, I somehow felt that there was this fundamental national consensus on this issue, that quality EU leadership, the reputation of Slovenia in the world is a matter of national pride and self-confidence, that this issue must overshadow all political and daily political divisions. The decision that is before you today is not just a matter of a ruling coalition, nor is leading the EU a matter of a ruling coalition, that is a matter, that is the challenge of the Slovenian state. By its appointment on the basis of the trust it received by confirmation in the National Assembly, the Government assumed this responsibility to carry out the most difficult part of this task on behalf of Slovenia. This is a responsibility that the Government is not in any way willing or able to escape and for which it is well prepared. The leadership of the European Union does not regard this government as its right, but as an obligation both to the European country and to Slovenia, to the Slovenian people, Slovenian citizens and citizens. And because it is not only a project of this government, but a project of Slovenia, we want to implement it so that there will be very clear cooperation and support for all political factors. And I believe it's not an immodest request if I say civil society. However, I say equally firmly that the willingness of this government to lead the European Union does not mean that we take this as an excuse to do what we want now and that we want power at all costs. I made it clear that this mandate is available, we listen to the National Assembly every day, otherwise it is normal for the opposition, how the government is incompetent and how the people of the opposition are more capable. Any time this exchange could happen, we offered it last week. I made it clear that the government can step down. Among us is a Member who called on the Government to resign on Monday, but on Wednesday he said that the resignation of the Government would be the greatest nonsense. But it is still time, there were suggestions, the Young Slovenia Party proposed Ljubljana Mayor Jankovic as the new mandate holder. Mr Slavoj Žižek proposed Gregor Golobič, the editor of the Journal proposed himself. Positions in this government are available, 10 signatures are needed and the matter will be done. It just takes a little courage to do that. Even in this case, if you do so, our commitment to the interests of Slovenia remains, so that in the government and in the opposition we will prove it very concretely, not only in words. To the opposition, I have said this at least ten times in the last days, I will repeat once again, no one denies the possibility that even when the European Union is running, if this government remains, it will use all the instruments available from parliamentary investigations, parliamentary scrutiny to referendums. The Constitution gives 30 Members the right to a referendum. This right is not suspended at the time of the European Union's leadership. However, there is also a limit. That limit is called some reasonable expectation. It would be reasonable to expect that the use of these instruments will not be more dense than before in the time of the greatest preparations for leadership and later in the Presidency of the European Union. Is it unreasonable to expect that the use of these instruments will not be more dense than before? Is it expected that moderation will be excessive? Even if it isn't, it's no crime, we'll take it quietly as long as it's on the home stage. However, there is no real reason for extraordinary meetings, interpretations and referendums at the time of the European Union's leadership to be more than there have been so far. We conclude the adoption of the reform package, only one key law in this package is on your hands, but it is coordinated. It is a matter of amending the Labour Relations Act; after two years of coordination, it is coordinated both with the social partners and within the Partnership for Development if, of course, the word holds. In the following year, there will be significantly fewer decisions that could separate the coalition and the opposition. We are also coordinating the Law on the Participation of Employees in Business Profit, and after multi-annual coordination, a social agreement was signed by the end of 2009. There is objectively no reason why the use of these instruments, which are, even at this time, completely legitimate for the opposition, would not be as moderate or as it has been so far since the Government had no such double work. And I also agree, some of the appeals have been in this direction, I agree that calming the situation is our shared responsibility. The government is therefore prepared to compromise. It's not true we haven't done them before. If that were true, then we would not have negotiated so many laws, from tax reform to employment relations, to participation in corporate profits, which we are now negotiating. Many of these compromises have been made. There is a topic that seems to share Slovenian political space, which has been politicized, also zideologicalized, this is the school law. This law has also been harmonized for a long time. At the same time, the Slovenian public is convinced that in this law it is only about the financing of the private schools, especially the churches. All the explanations that this is not the case, no one reads the law, that is, as usual, they are like bob against a wall. In the previous mandates or in the previous term, the previous majority and the previous coalition in the National Assembly have already adopted 100% funding for the programmes of existing church schools. There is a vote sheet, even the respected Mr. Gaber voted in favour of such a law. And now the question is whether this will only apply to some schools, or whether it will apply to all. But given that the matter has been politicized, the government is offering a compromise. In agreement with the Minister, we offer the possibility that this law, when tomorrow's vote on a given branch of the State Council falls, the coalition does not vote or at least the Slovenian Democratic Party does not vote in favour of this law, provided that there is a reasonable agreement, in the sense that, once the law falls, the Government proposes the same text of the law, minus the 100 per cent funding of private schools and the pooling of schools or educational institutions into the centres, which was the second observation that the rest will be adopted following an urgent procedure because of the Bologna processes, due to the increased participation of parents, due to the greater equality of students and students in schools. The law brings dozens of good solutions that this country needs. They were all in the background, because it was obvious to the government that it was trying to favour the financing of private schools, especially church schools, even though you did it yourself. This government certainly didn't have that interest. This government was accused at the beginning of the mandate of these benches to introduce a believer into schools. That was the main point of this government. Is there a religious man in school? We are trying to be perfectly normal within the constitutional framework of the established relationship between the State and the religious communities. There are no excesses here, none of these readings that have been made have happened. But since this has been forgotten a little, a new ideological theme has come up. And whatever the government does now, we will discuss ideology or the past. We do not want this, I offer a compromise, a step on our part, I hope that the response will be constructive and that we will be able to untangle this matter. As for the unequal situation in the few we have, private schools, I propose that we leave this issue to the Constitutional Court. Let the Constitutional Court decide whether it is constitutional for certain programmes, public programmes in private schools to be financed 100 per cent and for some 85 per cent. If the Constitutional Court says it's constitutional, then we'll accept it. Once again, this confidant or proposal to vote on a confidential person is not a matter of a coalition. Under normal circumstances, it would be confidential to verify that the Government still has support in the coalition, which it initially confirmed. But this time it's not a question. I repeat: this time it is not a question. The problem facing Slovenia's key historical challenge did not arise in the coalition. No one in the coalition has alarmed the entire European, and partly the global political and journalistic, with the demand that Slovenia prevent the EU from leading, since the Presidency of a country such as Slovenia is a concern for the present and the future of the EU. I don't bind my confidants to a coalition contract, to any individual law, or to coalition support. I'm tying her to a much more important dilemma. Is Slovenia sufficiently united before this historic challenge or not? Are we able to work out our problems at home? Or do we have to make accusations abroad at this very time? Do we need to reopen these debates about old traumas, sharpen ideological conflict and cultural warfare, and deepen divisions about the nation? Does anyone think this really benefits our common well-being? So, honourable Members, to make the matter perfectly clear, I am tying my trust to one very reason: to the question of Slovenia's unity in leading the EU. That's for you to decide. Those who want the Government and Slovenia to do well as a whole in leading the EU, support the Government. The result of the vote, I promise you, and I keep my word, we will not explain in any other direction. You can speak of principled support, many of which have been spoken in recent days. However, in view of the developments in recent months, we can only say, unfortunately, that we cannot believe. Now this support can be demonstrated by acts, by voting, and this action will not be able to be questioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u155	Thank you, Mr. President. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens and citizens, respected visitors on the balcony! At the outset, I would like to point out that all Members of the Slovenian People's Party will vote unanimously in favour of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. There are several reasons for this decision, but I would like to point out the following. We will vote in favour because in the Slovenian People's Party we hold to a given word and respect the coalition treaty we signed with the composition of this government. We must make it clear that the ministers of this government are doing very well and therefore there is no reason not to support the confidentiality. When the opposition does its work properly, the government and the coalition can function normally. The problem arises when the line is crossed, when the attacks substantially exceed the normal attitude of the opposition-coalition and when these internal relations receive international dimensions and the state becomes uncreditable in the eyes of leaders and the public of other countries, especially the EU Member States, which Slovenia will chair in the first half of next year. It is not our intention to criticise journalists or the opposition, we must first and foremost work on and complete the projects already under way in this government, which are undoubtedly also in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. Creating the impression that everything is wrong in Slovenia right now is not in line with the actual state of development indicators that we are witnessing in all areas of life and work. We have never had such a developmental impulse in Slovenia. The coalition has so far successfully adopted all its laws in the National Assembly and, therefore, if the attacks were not mentioned above, there would not be a valid reason for choosing the instrument of the Government's trustee, which the Prime Minister had decided to adopt. We cannot say that the work of the coalition is simple. It takes a lot of effort and coordination, and it is particularly important to take into account the fact that it is sometimes forgotten - the National Assembly is the highest representative body of the people in our country and the one who decides on the laws. Members of Parliament have a constitutional mandate, so no one can take this role away from us. Secondly, surely the most important reason to support the confidant is that before Slovenia it is a great and important task, this is the Presidency of the European Union, to join in which all citizens have already decided with the plebiscite for the independence of Slovenia, and this was the natural path that we must cross, and the long-standing desire of our people. By presiding as the first new member, our country must consolidate its reputation and position in the EU. Not taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the Presidency by Slovenia or, due to internal difficulties, to carry out the Presidency in a manner that is inconvenient, would be an irreparable mistake, which will no longer be remediable. Taking this into account, the failure to support the Government at this point would in itself be wrong. However, the third and fourth important reason for the Government's support is the final introduction of landscapes and the harmonisation of labour law, which in the event of a change of government would almost certainly go far into the future, which would be contrary to the social agreement adopted. Our attitude towards provincial legislation is clear. We are working in the Slovenian People's Party to complete the establishment of the provinces as soon as possible, as other levels of local self-government. This will enable: additional financial decentralisation of the country, faster development of our society and greater prosperity for all citizens. Concern for the further development of local self-government and the decentralisation of the country is also a concern for a more rational and flexible public administration and for a developing, competitive Slovenia in the European and global space. It would be irrational to postpone this project to the future. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we agree that the law on financing education and education has a good solution, but in this situation, when preparations for the referendum are already under way, it is better not to adopt this law at this time. We also concluded this at today's meeting of the Parliamentary Group of Slovenske [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] People's parties with the leadership of our party and we wanted to check this decision in coalition as well. [[...]] We will therefore vote in the Slovenian People's Party as a confidant of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, desiring to complete together some of the still important projects that we have put together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u157	Thank you. On behalf of the Zares Group, Dr Matej Lahovnik will present the opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Dear Members. Dear Mr. President of the Government. We have already proposed to you and the Slovenian government and to the other parties involved in this government six months ago, and this proposal has also been addressed to the opposition's parties to identify key national issues of interest to all and of which they could be unified. Unfortunately, this proposal has not been fully adopted. At the end of August this year, I wrote to the President of the Government and invited him to convene a meeting of all parliamentary parties on the subject of inflation, because it had already been shown to be a key development problem for Slovenia. Unfortunately, this meeting never happened. At that time, we were easily rejected, since this will be dealt with within the framework of the partnership for development and other forms in which the Government is operating and obviously there have never been any real results. I'm sorry. This is one of the key topics around which we could unify if the government, instead of dealing with itself for the last week, devoted itself to a key development challenge, such as the problem of inflation, then this would be much better - for it and for the citizens. And then the media and the opposition would probably be more lenient to her. We also called on the Government to prevent the closed opening of bids in a narrow circle of people from public auctions when it sells shares of companies in state and parastatal property. And this proposal has never been accepted. We continue to witness a series of imprudent sales that raises legitimate concerns. In the Group of Ambassadors, we have also repeatedly pointed out some irregularities in public calls, both in the field of health, where there have been major irregularities in the construction of the Paediatric Clinic, which, despite the fact that some have received greasy fees for consulting cables, is still not built. Everything is not yet completed to be used by those to whom it was intended. We have also warned of irregularities in the granting of concessions, of irregularities in the procurement of military equipment, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is the role of the opposition in every country. That's why we were elected. Just as this government has its mission and its task to carry out with this country, it is the task of every responsible opposition to oversee this government. And that's all we do. Condemned and responsible. We're sorry to bother you so much. If we are critical of the government, we should commend it. And I must say that in the Group of Members, we really welcome today's statement by the President of the Government that he is ready to withdraw the Education and Education Financing Act and that we are working together to design it so that it is acceptable for us to reach consensus with it. A consensus at a point that concerns all citizens and citizens in the field of education. If the government had done so in all the key cases of opposition, it would probably have been different in this country. Probably not even this agenda item today. I'm sorry this doesn't happen again. Your Honor! When we signed some of the Agreement on Cooperation in the Presidency of the European Union, we signed it because we believe that the Presidency of the European Union is one of the key tasks ahead of Slovenia. But for ministers, it's not a commitment. It's a commitment to doing well. They were elected by citizens and citizens and have responsibilities at home. This is why working at home in Slovenia cannot and must not suffer. And allow me, Mr President of the Government, to remind you, on this occasion, that although the cooperation agreement expressly stipulates that we will coordinate on key issues, so far there has not been a single meeting between the signatories to the agreement where both opposition and positional parties can be reconciled, this is a key development challenge. And of course, this agreement does not prevent anything, but it expressly allows the opposition to continue to exercise its responsible constitutional role of control over this authority. If someone doesn't believe, then read article 10 of the agreement. He's clear and clear, and then there'll be no misunderstandings. In the Group of Members, we can't really trust the Government and we won't support it, we'll vote against it. We have not supported this government even when it is appointed, and we will not now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u160	Your Honors are here! What if we're all wrong together in this country? What if Mr. President of the Government is right, Mr. Janez Janša? And on the basis of his speech, I am quite convinced that all of us, citizens of this country, are working very badly with our Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša. If we start not at the last, or at the beginning, with elementary school students. Yeah, who are the elementary school kids to fight for their education? Isn't it much better for a minister who, unfortunately, doesn't get a confidant in public to tell them what's right, what's learned in history? Why would we help students in our country, why would we open up an opportunity for economic development and employment? Maybe Mr. Janez Janša is right. He knows better than they do. Why would we even talk about workers in this country? Why would we help the workers in this country in some way, but if the workers are so very ugly and Mr. Janez Janša is swayed by the fact that this group of people is so mean and not on the last few occasions organizing trade unions? Yeah, well, apparently these people in our country have no idea, and Mr. Janez Janša is right. Or not least, why should we talk about the future of pensioners, because we do not need them, and perhaps Mr Janez Janša is right here too. Who are the media hoping to criticize the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? Yes, "porkamizeria", some journalist will be hoping to write critically about the Prime Minister! Yeah, that really isn't working, ladies and gentlemen! Is there a reporter who will write something bad about our Prime Minister? No, that can't happen. In that too, Mr. Janez Janša is right. Last but not least, who are the unions hoping to speak negatively about the Prime Minister? Who is the opposition in the National Assembly to hope to oppose one of the proposals that, after long coordination, we all know in our society, Mr. Janez Janša, with his cabinet, has brought through coordination to a stage that they are really good? I have really heard Mr Janez Janš's speech for two hours, and I have come to realize that it is right that Mr Janez Janša in the National Assembly is allowed to perform for two hours, political parties who have been elected to the elections, to have the right to perform for five minutes. Last but not least, who are we, or rather, who is the opposition, if we have over ourselves a man who estimates that he is the most important, that he is the smartest, and that all the decisions he makes are the best decisions for all citizens? In the end, I stopped at the press. At this point, the media are on call to blame, on duty, for having the economic situation we have in our country. The media are guilty of having an external debt of 8,000 euros per capita and several euros per capita. But why would you tell people that? Would it not be easier to adopt a policy of blindness and not criticize Mr. Janez Janša? And if we look at it this way, we see that we are actually doing the wrong thing to Mr. Janez Janša. Why not write and give gifts to the Roman Catholic Church in every way possible within the framework of each marriage. Last but not least, this one cares about the foreign side and every day more about the foreign side. Why should we allow freedom of thought if we see that everyone else thinks otherwise? But that's bad. This is obviously a bad thing, throwing a bad light at us in Europe, in the world, when in such a very simple and beautiful way all together shout in one voice: Mr Janez Janša is ours. We want him to be president both of the governments and of the republics. Last but not least, Parliament. Then we wouldn't have met with this dilemma. And I believe or, I hope that you will sum up my position to all those who have listened to the address of our Prime Minister Janez Janša. And may I have only the advice of the President of the Government from this city: Mr Janez Janša, it would probably be easier to replace citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u161	Thank you. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u162	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly! Dear Mr President of the Government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, announced a request for a vote on the confidence of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia just before midnight on 15.11.2007, stating in a number of respects different from the reasons given in the interview the same evening before. In an interview with TV Slovenia, the work of our party in the coalition and the name leader of the DeSUs Group, stating only part of his vote in the National Assembly, the Executive Committee of the Party at its meeting on Sunday, 18.11.2007, found the following in a broad discussion and after a comprehensive examination of the proposal by the President of the Government and his statements in the last week. Firstly, it would not be necessary to vote on the Government's confidence in the functioning of the coalition at all, since it had sufficient support for its functioning. Secondly, in this mandate, DeSUS has never compromised the functioning of this same government coalition by acting in the coalition. That the adoption of laws by the vote of a parliamentary group or any member thereof, except in one case, has never been jeopardised by the provision of a quorum. Fourthly, that the further implementation of the programme and the content of the coalition contract can only be continued until the end of the mandate. Fifthly, it is necessary for the Government to make possible the proper implementation of the EU Presidency, which is expected of us. At the conclusion of the meeting, the Executive Committee of the Party unanimously agreed that the Group of Members should support the Government. Since we want Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia to continue to participate in the implementation of the government programme, parties and content of the coalition treaty, we have decided, despite some concerns, to support the Government and our minister in it in a uniform manner. The Group of Members will vote unitedly for the Government as we are convinced that in the given situation this is the best solution, in line with the interests of our country and all citizens who expect us to finish our work in their interest throughout the mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr Jože Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u164	Your Honor! We are horrifying witnesses to the discreditation of Slovenia. A petition was sent two months ago, signed by 571 Slovenian journalists. It informs Europe and the world that the authoritarian regime is being strengthened in Slovenia on the basis of democracy and media freedom and that the Presidency of such a country may be a worrying sign of the present and even more so of the future of Europe. Europe has cooled off. All European states are wondering what is going on in this beautiful, successful democratic country, which will take over the EU Presidency within a few weeks, which has not been heard of until now, anything alarming and disturbing. Even more, this country was regarded as a success in all respects, as an example, so everyone spoke and so we were treated. We have shared special confessions, which have been made publicly, and they have been given by the most important Europeans of all nationalities. Now it's a petition shock! Surprise for ambassadors, surprise also for all other accompanying events in Slovenia. Only accusations and threatening warnings from the EU about the possible consequences of the Presidency of Slovenia are transmitted abroad. The basis for such writing of journalists is in the alternative government programme of SD, where they wrote in the section on media freedom: "The ruling coalition, through political-capital links, also influences the programming of daily newspapers, directly by means of capital, and also has a decisive impact on certain other public publications. Journalists concerned about work and existence exercise self-censorship. The media silence on the Government of Opposing and Critical Opinions or sanctioning journalists is part of the political accounting of the coalition with other thinkers." Dear Borut, dear Tone, dear others, dear journalists, you all know this is not true. Although the petition has been in circulation for two months, no one from the opposition, at least from the SD, has done anything to correct the damage to Slovenia, which was based on their distorted conclusion. You did not convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, nor did you request the resignation of the Government. You did not demand anything against the Government, which was supposed to so clearly extend to freedom and human rights. You are all silent, including Mr Pahor, President of the SD, who publicly presented this thesis. In an international environment where Mr Pahor acts as a European Member, he has done nothing to protect Slovenia's reputation. He did not refrain from petitioning, nor did the rest of the SD and opposition. The objective is clear: all funds are allowed to be destroyed by this government. The international reputation of Slovenia is no obstacle. That is why Janša-Sanader's wiretap affair was launched, and many others that were very damaging, not the reputation of this government, but of Slovenia, without evidence, with false accusations and assumptions. Neither Mr Rop nor the other have delivered any documents or evidence. However, in the opinion of Mr Rope, Mr Cwickl, Mr Potræ, Mrs Potrate, this government has done nothing good. It is expected that Roma affairs in Brussels and Ambrus will be dealt with poorly and that the Commissioners of the Council of Europe, poor economic, fiscal and other policies, will be called upon to reform too small and inadequate. For every day, for every hour you could tell what we were doing wrong and how you could do everything better - that's what you said every day. Because we are responsible because we do not want to control Slovenia at all costs, because we are prepared to enable the better to prove ourselves for our common good, we have offered you to take control of the controls to prove yourself to cash your knowledge and talents for the good of Slovenia immediately. We've offered you public support. You haven't accepted the offer, you've cancelled, you've started to make excuses - like Mr. Lahovnik, who said on Monday, "The government has lost these elections, so let's leave." In two days: "The government's resignation would be the greatest nonsense." And so did the other great men of the opposition. The Prime Minister has decided to take a rational step towards a confidant. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] We will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. It would be good if you were unable or unwilling to take over the country's leadership, to help raise the country's international reputation to support it in the SD, LDS and Really. Of course, you will have to do much in the domestic and especially in the international environment to revive and enhance the reputation of Slovenia. The damage caused is unimaginable. I hope you'll be on your way out. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The severe consequences of the terrible international discredit of Slovenia, although very late, took place immediately in socialist internationalism. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues from the coalition. I would trust you to believe that you are sincere and that you want cooperation, I would believe that in Slovenia you are also in charge of democratic relations and equality, if you did not conclude that an individual from an individual opposition party should speak for 5 minutes and the President of the Government should speak for two hours. If we could give us time to speak at least half of that time, we could deny the facts of the many half-truths that have been given in the performance by the Prime Minister of the Government. It'll only be possible to talk about some. It is, however, that from his first appearance a week ago to this day, the President has made various accusations, changed his views, accused the opposition and the public at the same time, and made an impression as if he were inviting someone to cooperate. Both of us do not work together in this way according to our beliefs. It was critical even to the electoral results and to the decisions of the referendum, which did not mean the vote of voters and voters, but also to the lack of understanding of the successes and good works carried out by the Government, and in particular the wrong propaganda which was intended to assess the ruling coalition and the government, not the actual issues of the Presidency or the election of the President of the Republic and the issues of the referendum on the ownership of the Triglav Insurance Office. If only I could say that if the Government had adopted one single amendment, which was agreed and which it also spoke about at its meeting, which was also tabled for its mother's working body, it had not been accepted, and the failure of those who said it had not been submitted would not have been addressed in the referendum, but in Parliament and in the solution, we would have agreed on how we would carry out operationally. And the situation is very similar now in the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. I am pleased to see some offers made by the President of the Government in the last five or maybe seven minutes of his performance. But he did, after first addressing all of them, after giving them a few months of the ruling coalition with the Minister of Education and with the president of the home labour body were not prepared to listen to legitimate concerns and to seek a certain consensus not only with the opposition in Parliament but also with the professional and interested public. In the opinion of the Prime Minister, once again, until the end of his performance, the opposition, especially the Social Democrats and journalists, were all guilty. And two things to say. The pure non-truth of not using a more reticent term is the fact that the conspiracy, first the political parties, then the journalists, then the foreign and then the discreditation of Slovenia, if known and documented, was published almost a month before the light of the world's document on the evaluation of Slovenia was published on the website by our party. And it is purely false that we did not speak in favour of Slovenia in the European Parliament, which was today denied by the parliamentary group of socialists and is also informed by the President of the Government. If not, I give him this letter. And let me finish, ladies and gentlemen! If there was a willingness to talk together, then it would not be a problem to sign an agreement, to implement it, then the government would not discuss whether or not we should act as an opposition. We would act as opposition to the welfare of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u167	Thank you. Before I give my word forward, because there are still protests about why parliamentary groups no longer have time to discuss, let me say again: the Cabinet's Commissioner in the Rules of Procedure does not provide for a debate. However, since the College unanimously adopted the view that at least five minutes of time should have been allowed for parliamentary groups, we have adopted such a decision past the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jožef Školč has the following word on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u168	Thank you very much. So today's performance of Presidents Janša and Mr Tsukjati was particularly unworthy of the parliamentary platform. She basically reminded me of what we know as a "political class". In particular, they were involved in those groups which otherwise support it and in those groups which have entered into partnership and cooperative agreements with it. And it is right that they listened to him if these kinds of agreements were also concluded with him. Call for unity can also refer to them, but I don't think so. If, until today, anyone has been in doubt about how the government treats the media, I suggest, Mr Tsukati, that this performance be translated by the President and sent to all those addresses around the world and believe, there will be no illusion as to how to understand the Government's attitude towards journalists and Slovenian media. This performance will certainly undermine Slovenia's reputation in the world. What else have we heard today? What is surprising is that everything in Mr Janš's register before the previous elections: that everything is wrong because someone asks the question about the Roma, that everything is wrong because someone asks the question about the deleted, about censorship, but not to wonder whether anything is wrong in these areas. Game on the lowest feelings of Slovenes and Slovenes who have other problems and say: Why are they complicated with these things? Why aren't they dealing with jobs, bread and the future? He opened a register of hate speech we know. Then there was the thesis that criticism of journalists and honest citizens could reach the threshold of the home. Why is that? Why can't the critic cut across the threshold? Does freedom of speech stop at the door of the home? Does this not perhaps mean that Mr Janša understands all Slovenia, with Parliament, as part of his wider family, where he can order laundry to be done at home? Freedom of speech and media rights cannot meet such desires and imperatives. And that's worrying. Worse yet, it suggests that one speaks his conscience by chance, whether he is right or wrong, that he is a potential enemy of this land. It's a language you can't remember because of the sequences he had in this country. That's what I'm worried about. And finally, let me say. The International Press Institute called on the Government to set up a special commission of inquiry, independent of which all these things around the freedom of the capital media and other pressures on journalists would be investigated - the government did not accept this proposal. That's why, I'll say, here's a little bit of a ruse, if it wasn't sent to us, it was sent around the world. The government has had the opportunity to clear up certain matters, this option has been rejected, and I think it is rejecting today. It's nice to get out of the lost battles. She'll save a lot of money. I therefore welcome this compromise which has been offered here. But I must say, the truth is that this compromise was offered several times and was, as it is said, rejected with disgust until the government felt its full power. But better late than never. And it would be better if you did it more than once. I wouldn't be in any trouble today. He doesn't deserve to be trusted. It is not a question of whether someone can collect 10 signatures here, it is a question of whether the President of the Government has the courage to give his signature under a declaration of resignation. From there, we can talk to others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u170	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Honourable President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Council of Ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The opposition and their positions in civil society have created a climate of anti-government hysteria in recent times, particularly before the presidential elections and the referendum on the Property Change Act, when it was only about being against the Government; it was not important that the content was not important. Launched lies about the worrying situation in our country have unfortunately fallen on fertile Slovenian and European soils. In such situations it has been and is impossible to work, let alone lead the country. The President of the Government is responsible for the normal functioning of the Government, so Slovenian political space urgently needed the action of the Prime Minister to face political anti-government hysteria. The President of the Government recently outlined various options, including extremely, this is the resignation of the Government. This item on the agenda of the meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is the logical continuation of the Prime Minister's announcement, I do not know why his announcement was disputed. If the Government does not receive a confidential person tonight, it must, under Article 117 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, resign. In Novi Slovenija, however, we would expect a substantial number of constructive activities of the opposition. We would expect more of her after the termination of the permits, such as a vote of no confidence in this government, if everything is so badly wrong in this Slovenia. However, the opposition did not decide to propose a new term of office to the National Assembly. So this is at this point not interested. During Friday's conversation with the opposition on national television, we were looking forward to the answers of opposition champions to the leader's question about how to curb inflation in Slovenia. I won't insult my mother tongue by describing the feelings we had when we answered. The most concrete response was the one that announced the expert advice on inflation - "it will be tomorrow". I wish, sincerely, that the solutions will be put on the table for the good of Slovenia. Your Honor! In Novi Slovenija we regret and we are convinced that a large part of the 570 signatories to the petition against censorship and political pressure on journalists in Slovenia have been abused. Certainly, at least retired journalists, journalists from Ciciban and members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council did not know that the petition would rumble at 300 European and world headlines. This writing to Europe and the world reminds us of the letters of many who also wrote to Europe and to the world out of love for their own Slovenian people when they asked prominent institutions and individuals 16 years ago to support the independence of Slovenia. At the time, there is film documentation, in smooth Serbian, they assured their colleagues from the avant-garde that they would not allow Slovenia to secede from such an ideal family as the SFRJ. Ladies and gentlemen! With the exploitation and abuse of the 500 million-million-dollar European citizens' mudfield, it is now an urgent consideration of Slovenia's placement in the European Union. In the European Union, we are appreciated for our achievements: taking over the euro, record economic growth, record low unemployment, increase in fertility, etc. In New Slovenia we call for plebiscite unity before and during the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union. It is a historic opportunity for our country to join the European mental flows that have been routed by the fathers of Europe. The only unity at home will result in the final recognition of Slovenia in the European Union and in the world. This is the historic moment of the Republic of Slovenia and this historic moment has been contributed by this Slovenian Government. Therefore, Members of the New Slovenia Group will vote in accordance with their own convictions and in accordance with the decisions of the party's authorities regarding the confidence of this Government. We trust this Government and wish it much success by the end of the mandate and the realization of all the projects planned. For the sake of Slovenia and for a decent Slovenia, the Members of New Slovenia will contribute all 9 votes because the confidence of this Government is tied to Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u171	Thank you. The President of the Government has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u172	Those who said that media freedom and freedom in general don't end at state borders, you're right. This freedom is not limited. Even what was written in this petition and which is a lie has the right to write that it is spreading. Because of what has been done, there will be no - someone has asked - the government has initiated no legal and formal proceedings. It's nothing illegal. So no one's talking about it. I would be happy to set up a committee that some have proposed if you could give me one concrete statement from this petition to which it can be answered. What should the commission do with this accusation? "The ruling coalition, with the help of the parliamentary majority, has also adopted a new law on RTV Slovenia, which has in practice strengthened the control of the governing structures over public radio and television." The referendum ruled on this law. You proposed a referendum - you lost it. Respect the will of the people! We also respect the will expressed in the Sunday referendum on the ownership of the Triglav Insurance Company. We don't need a commission to investigate these things! Do we need a commission to investigate whether Slovenia, as the future Presidency of the European Union, is a threat to the present and future of the European Union? How can the commission investigate this? These are flat-rate charges. If the petition said that in this and this newspaper the day of this and this government carried out this and this censorship, we would investigate this case. There's not a single case in this petition! What should we explore? As for matters that were obviously not made clear or that they did not want to be heard, I think I have made this very clear, but I repeat: in addition to the fact that there is media freedom, there is, of course, a sense, some moderation, some patriotism, some sense for the country itself, for the reputation of this country. There are, well, some boundaries, there are some morals, there are some values, there are some behaviors about what is right and what is wrong, what is worthy, what is not worthy. We have heard many words in the last days, but not one of those who says that their political views are not the basis for these accusations that went abroad, from these accusations and fenced themselves. We haven't heard a single statement yesterday, not yesterday, not today, which would have gone in this direction, that it wasn't right. Obviously, there is still agreement in this country's political space that Slovenia with this country poses a threat to the present and future of the European Union; otherwise, at least today, we would have heard a sentence saying that problems exist that political assessments have been adopted, which are different from government, but that Slovenia does not represent this horror - we have not heard this sentence, I deeply regret this. Nor did we hear anything in the direction of the justification given in these political assessments, which then spread across Europe through this petition, that this government is capitalising on the media space. I presented very vividly what properties are in the Slovenian media space, but no one presented evidence that the Government is capital-controlled this place; no evidence was given in this regard. Well, apparently, they don't hold, they went out, they say they don't have political sponsors, but none of them are. Again some calculations in this sense, as it may be O. K., it was going across the border, but it's good for us, it doesn't matter if Slovenia's covered, it's good for us. Unfortunately, these are not the values on which Slovenia was founded. I am convinced that these are not the values of most Slovenes and Slovenes, citizens and citizens of this country. I am sure that most Slovenians and Slovenes, citizens and citizens of this country love this country. I'm sure what I'm saying isn't playing on low emotions like it was obvious. That, I'm sorry, is a high feeling for me! That someone likes his own country to resist being mutilated abroad is not a low feeling, and that is not an hate speech! Indicting the Slovenes and Slovenes to express low feelings in this case is hate speech and things will have to be put in place once. I have received a reply here from the European Parliament, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, that a Member from Slovenia, who operates in this group, has not worked against the preparations in the European Parliament or, in any way, spoke ill of Slovenia's readiness to lead the European Union. No one, no one, has accused this Member, has said that there was someone doing something in the European Parliament, and I have counted exactly the things that have been said. I also told you where these accusations have been published, how they have been made, where they have been distributed, and how they have been responded to. Here something is rejected that has not been, but does not respond to what is really the reason and what has been said. It's going back to some ridiculous situation I've been predicting before. It's like I'm going to say, "The government is going to do everything not to enforce something that no one has proposed." And if in the coming days this mass is multiplied by Slovenia, then a number will slowly begin to believe that someone really proposed it, even though it was none of it. So, ladies and gentlemen, you will now move on to a decision, to an explanation of vote and a vote. This Government and I, personally, are not to blame for the adoption of a Rules of Procedure within the previous term, allowing only an explanation of the vote request. He clearly writes, he was not accepted by this government and this coalition. But there is, as I said before, the possibility of the situation turning - 10 signatures, a constructive non-trust, 5 hours a pay phone will be in the hands of a brave one who will collect these 10 signatures. We are willing to listen and answer. Once again, I repeat that there will be no misunderstanding because it has been said over and it has not been read what is also written in the formal explanation of the confidentiality: I attach the Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to one reason, to the question of Slovenia's unity in preparing for and leading the European Union. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Those who want Slovenia as a whole to do this work well, support the confidant. I promise once again that the results of this vote will never be interpreted in any other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u173	Thank you. Before we move to a decision, I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 117 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the confidential person will be voted on and thus supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, if the majority of Members and Members vote for it, that is 46 or more. Since there is likely to be a desire to explain my vote, I first open an application to explain my vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mrs Majda Zupan on behalf of New Slovenia. Please. [[No, no, ……]] Then Mr Jakob Preseknik on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Group of Members will support the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as we have already indicated in our opinion; for several reasons. I will count only a few of them: because the Government is good because we keep our word and we also adhere to the coalition contract and in accordance with the coalition contract; we also work all the time in the functioning of this coalition and this government and this parliament; because we do not accept the claim that everything is wrong in Slovenia - indicators of course show everything differently - because just before the EU Presidency it would be unrealistic to cause a government crisis and thereby reduce the credibility of the state of Slovenia. That is why, as it is said, the Group of Members will vote in full for the support of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr Gulič, please, on behalf of the LDS delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, of course, we will not support the confidence of the President of the Government, we will vote against. The reasons for this are very large, and the time is not enough to list them. This comrade's self-criticism, portrayed by the Prime Minister of the Government, has nothing to add; but this spirit from history has returned. In fact, we're quite grateful that he's told everything that's wrong, that he thinks it's wrong, but it's not right that he's reading it to journalists who can't defend themselves right now, but he's not here. From 120 minutes we listened to 115 minutes of attacks on journalists, and in the last part then a call for unity, saying that Slovenia is dirty. I tell you, there is nothing dirty about Slovenia abroad. Even in those who do not like us much, Slovenia has a good image. Of course, the Slovenian government has a different image at this point. And that's a big difference. Having yourself as a whole of Slovenia, however, is impolite and largely bloated. But it comes from a theory that power may be unsympathetic, but it is the only immortal path of peace and stability; it is known from Polish history and is evidently repeated in us. There's something else you can say. I think that this government, given what it's been doing in these three years, including these blind exchanges lately, when we don't get any answers from ministers, at least not smart, except that, say, they study - what I know - Chinese-Slovenian medical relations, we don't actually have anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, distinguished ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues! We will not support the Secretary-General of the Government and, Mr President of the Government, you will not fool us. You will not fool us by telling us that you will bind a confidant to the establishment and commitment of unity in the leadership of the European Union. This subject, to be honest, has never been the subject of this conflict and this conflict, and it is just, you could say, some kind of cream cream, under which some other problems have actually been hidden and some other issues that I think have arisen entirely needlessly in the face of a convincing victory for the president of the country, and in fact with government and other things, you had nothing in common. I would also like to say that in the Group of Members, we really cannot accept these accusations of what is going on abroad and how foreign. Actually, it's foreign to us. I must say, your performance in this regard has very much reminded me of the reactions that Brother Kaczynski had in response to the criticisms that occurred in Poland and abroad regarding their relations. I recommend that because you are nodding your head to read a very interesting article in the London Economist a few months ago, and you may be able to find some parallels. Europe is no longer a foreign country to us. When, for example, Mr Lukenda complained about the proceedings before the European Court of Justice, we did not accept this as an hateful act against Slovenia, but as a weakness in Slovenia, for which the Minister even initiated the Lukenda programme on remedying judicial backlogs and so on. Europe can no longer function for us as a foreign and better not. And I suppose even for most of our citizens, it doesn't work any more than abroad. What bothers me is that I won't be able to speak more than that, I would just say that the style of your performance and the continuation of this government hasn't changed much. And that's why we won't be able to support you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! President Janez Janša said two days after the elections at the Ormož press conference that all options, including the resignation of the Government, were open after Sunday's presidential elections. On Thursday evening, he changed his mind and sent a request to the National Assembly for a vote on the Government's confidentiality. The question was thus clarified whether it was a broader reconstruction of the ministerial assembly, or just a warning to the coalition partners, or a real resignation of the President. In fact, in the coming days it was revealed that the confidential or political crisis is directly linked to our analysis of Slovenia today - an assessment of the situation as an introduction to the preparation of an alternative government programme for Social Democrats 2008-2012, and even more amazing, with the petition of 570 Slovenian journalists on media freedom. The presidential elections and the rejection of the Property Change Act of Triglav in the referendum are a serious defeat of the ruling coalition, Janez Janša. This had to be quickly cleaned under the carpet and created an artificial political crisis in the country. For this artificial crisis, however, to directly accuse the Social Democrats, which we have in the National Assembly of 14 Members and Members. It is true that we have been at the top of all public research since March this year. We have become a serious alternative to the current ruling party, and this is the result of most of its traumas. The requirement to vote on the Government's confidence a month and a half before the start of the EU Presidency is, to say the least, very unusual and mainly reflects the difficulties in its own coalition and the great degree of irresponsibility. Social Democrats are ready to take responsibility for running the country, but this mandate must be given to us by voters and voters in regular elections, or by early elections. We do not want the mandate offered to us by Janez Janša, nor do we fear to take the lead of the government, but the government programme and the human resources offer must be checked in advance in parliamentary elections. In our view, in the view of the Social Democrats, it is most correct that the Government has successfully carried out the EU Presidency with constructive cooperation from the opposition and that regular parliamentary elections are signed. President Borut Pahor's proposal for dialogue seems to have run into the deaf ear of the Prime Minister. Such a confidant as the President of the Government proposes [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Article 258. of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is not possible and is demagogic. The decision to chair the European Union was adopted on 17 November 2004, and this must be respected [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u182	Thank you very much. A few dates first. The petition of journalists was sent to European headlines on 10.9, to numerous European addresses, 26.9 was forwarded to the Government and only 16.10. To the National Assembly. In short, a month and a half after it has already circled around the European Union. However, not a month and a half after that, or a month after that, there was no reaction in the National Assembly, none of the opposition leaders called on the Commission for petitions or extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, despite the extremely hard points written in this petition and also in your observations. This way of communicating with Europe did not appear for the first time in the opposition. When we began to regulate the situation, for example, at the Primary School of Irslin, there was the intervention of the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights, Alvar Gila-Robles, on the likely initiative of opposition members working in the Council of Europe. When we were regulating the situation in Ambrus, his successor, Thomas Hammarberg, was invited. When we passed the law on RTV, some members of this National Assembly sent a call, including to the Council of Europe, and we received Jakubowicz's responses, and a response came from Liberal Secretary Aidan White and so on. I ask you what, say, the countries are boasting about what athletes are boasting about - with achievements, with results. What do governments and citizens of Slovenia boast? We should also boast about what we have achieved - both at home and in Europe. This government achieves extremely good results in many areas, but when we talk about results, we get a clear message: "Good news is not news." Now I ask you, would you represent in Europe, for example, a series of defeats by Union of Olympia as some kind of achievement, as some kind of success? I don't think so. On the contrary, they would have done it, probably to say that [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Friday and the others are extremely successful. [[...]] And one such message about the situation would expect good conditions in this country from those who do not have the best relationship with this government. Because we know that this Government is the only one who is able to carry out the presidency, because it is obvious that it is the only one who is able to maintain a high level of results, we will be in the Group of Members. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The Slovenian democratic parties, because of the results it achieves, and also because of the perspective, have given their unanimous support for the possibility and for the successful Presidency. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u184	Dearly represented, if the President of the Government claims that colleagues from Pahor's party are mutilating the homeland of the Republic of Slovenia abroad, this is worth all criticism. It's worth all the contempt that we all go through together. Secondly, I would like to point out that the views or priorities of the Slovenian National Party Group are not that we will preside over the European Union. According to our assessment, Slovenia, the Slovenian Government, the Slovenian Parliament has committed itself exclusively to Slovenian citizens to enact laws that are, by measure and agreement, to Slovenian citizens and citizens, by only 3 or 4 of the importance of how we will implement the Presidency of the European Union. Unfortunately, I see that we are alone in pursuing this goal in the National Party's Group of Members. All the speakers before me, whether you come from the opposition or position, have defended the horror before the Presidency of the European Union. From this title again: this is not the priority of the National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Our priority is domestic legislation according to the measure of the local person, namely Slovenia and Slovenia. On the other hand, I would like to reiterate that Slovenia is not in any political crisis, that the situation we are in today is simply a game. The game of all those who have just in the hands of the scissors and the canvas, or all those who hope to have the scissors and the canvas in your hands. But the fact is that we are, and this is repeatedly ignored, deep or concretely, before the economic crisis. Regardless of how an individual from any party tries to minimize the importance of inflation or to minimize measures against inflation, today this and here in our country is taking place. Prices in the Republic of Slovenia relate much faster than in the rest of the euro area. The fact is that the external debt of the Republic of Slovenia is increasing at an extraordinary rate. From this title, every citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia owes only abroad more than EUR 8 000. This is the information that has grown from the field over the last few years. And when the President of the Government speaks about the no more corruption and clienteleism - please! [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] My guess is it's even bigger than it used to be. [[...]] It's the same with negative personnel. I believe all the ministers know what I'm talking about. From this title, I reiterate: the position of the Group is that in our eyes you do not enjoy trust to lead, not the government, but the countries of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u185	Thank you. I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Juban, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello to you all. I have a special honour to explain my voice first and to say that I will not vote for my confidant. For 90 minutes I heard about the petition of journalists - 570 or as many as there were, there is enough qualified society to answer for itself what they do at home and abroad. And that's not my problem right now. My problem and the vote on the confidential is what is happening in Slovenia and eventually what is happening later in leading the European Union, but there are many things happening in Slovenia that lead me to what I am going to do now. We have 70,000 demonstrators on the road who don't demonstrate for free. They are fighting for existence, for the basics of what belongs to every citizen of Slovenia. On many lists we have 70,000 signatures for one of the laws that is not suitable for this country of Slovenia. We are concerned about the breakdown of the health system and the stories that are happening in this area. We are concerned about a state university clinical centre that is falling apart; for stories across individual ministries that are worrying; and so they could be listed for a long time if, of course, the opposition had enough time available. And such and similar reasons are those that lead me not to support this confidant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u188	Thank you. I will vote against the confidant, not only as a member of the Social Democratic Group, which has been very often in recent years, and in particular in recent days, to receive unjustifiable attacks by the President of the Government and some members of the coalition, but in particular to vote against the actions of the President of the Government since the start of the real or virtual crisis of the Government and the tragedy that lasts for a week and a whole day and night. With a large enough majority as this coalition has in this National Assembly and as announced last night's outcome of today's national vote, it is absurd to be responsible, and we have mainly listened to this all afternoon and all evening, by the President of the Government for problems in governance and unpleasant information abroad, to the opposition and to journalists. The government's performance this afternoon, and this evening, was more similar to the performance by Mr Janez Janša as the leader of the opposition a few years ago as the responsible Prime Minister of the Government. The content of these performances should be referred to as "the opposition and journalists on the pranger of the Prime Minister". I would like to see, after the vote on the positive outcome for the Government, that the President of the Government and the Government leave for work as soon as possible, the challenging and responsible tasks ahead of it, both with regard to the Presidency. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] As usual. [[...]] Of course, it can count on the opposition's participation, but cooperation requires two, with less stubbornness, with more compromises and even more proper relations than [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My voice goes, as it has done many times before, when the Government has submitted good solutions to Parliament, in support of this government. This Government is also my Government, as my governments have been in the last two mandates with a small exception in 2004. To do so, we refer to what is good for this country at a given time as its overall image at a time when it assumes the leadership or Presidency of the European Union. However, my modest expectation is that both the Government and a large part of the government coalition will be less involved in resolving the issues related to the governance of this country in the future with the work of the former governments, governments in which the Slovenian People's Party, as in this one, has independently cooperated with the best possible contributions for the benefit of this country and its people. And to give a little more attention to what is called conversation within the coalition. And also to have the feeling of talking to the opposition when proposals are good, not populist, not hurtful, or provocative. That would strengthen our democracy. And I would also be happy if we were a little less concerned with the principle, which is too present in this reference, the "our-your" principle; this democracy is weakening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u191	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtiger Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u192	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll vote against it. I regret and regret that we had to listen for two hours to an unconvincing and in the style of the political-mission report by which the Prime Minister of the Government tried to discipline the coalition, opposition, media and journalists, trade unions, as well as the people who had made a bad decision in the recent elections and referendum. So, according to you, more than enough to determine that the situation in Slovenia is poor, even critical, and Slovenia's reputation abroad is seriously conceived. Mr President, if you are looking for an internal enemy at all costs and regrettably at all times, look at yourself and your Government's three-year practice, and you will find that this Government and only this Government is the greatest enemy to yourself. You said you were always prepared to compromise. Indeed, how many such compromises with the opposition have you concluded so far - not a single substantive one! The way you concluded your report today is also offensive. You say, Commissioner, you are bound to a record of unity before the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Any other, that is to say, a mixed result, will be interpreted as if we are the ones who will vote against the unity and success of Slovenia during the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and even that we do not love Slovenia. That's too much. If I understand correctly, you're asking us to be unanimous and self-absorbing the opposition. That's too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u194	This government, of course, is my government. But this government isn't my country, and it's not my country that we're clear. If not for all these frozen rules on who can sign the petition, there would not be 471, but there would be 472. I would also sign under this; not because there would be censorship, but mainly because it is at least part of the journalists, and good, after all these staff exchanges are not allowed to be censored or even disabled in order to self-censor. They write something else, because they don't give them what they want, I'm not saying that you order it, I very much doubt it, I very much doubt it, but the climate that is created in Slovenia, but of course it makes it possible. No one cultivates viruses, but if it's a good climate, they line up on their own. But of course, I am giving you all the credit for the skilful move you made on Tuesday and spit on Mr Danil Türk's victory cake and thus diverted all the public's attention from the elections, from the newly elected President of yourself and from your problems. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Not to the problems of this country, not to the problems of Slovenia, but to the problems of the government you are presiding over. [[...]] There's a lot of them. After all, last year our Minister of Finance received a high recognition from the European Union. Of course, he got to work for Mr. Marble and Gaspari. This year, when he went to show off his work, he was sent to a club and went home to fix things. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and a number of such matters could be required. [[...]] If we look at how Mr. Žnidaršič votes, he always votes for this government, but he always says what he says and you don't like it, you don't like the word in this House. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u195	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u196	Thank you. Of course, I will not support the Government, as I did not when it was appointed, and it is rude that the President of the Government has asked us to vote in favour of a confidant and thus express our belongings to the country. I belong to my country. However, I do not feel committed to expressing my unconditional support to the President of the Government, who, in the last week, has given me incredible attention, for which I sincerely thank him. Although I do not know what I have earned this attention with; however, allow me, Mr President, a prominent Slovenian sociologist said that mature democracy is characterised by partnership with civil society. You've been demonstrating for two hours what can't be said to be a partnership with civil society. You're not exactly from that party that's being honored by some special concern for minorities, so I dare to be critical of your relationship and to be honest about the many things you've been talking about. Why is this fear if Slovenia should organise a minority conference in the Presidency, if everything is so nice and right? I don't know why it's necessary to trouble things if a minister from a party who says the word is valid swallows the word he gave to the signatories of the resolution and makes a proposal for a law that is a negation of what he promised. And you won't let yourself tell yourself that, not you, not the one who's embarrassed to hear it. Not to mention how you should have been asked, persuaded, warned about what should be done before agreement was reached on the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. Too bad you can't see that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. I have always supported the government and I intend to continue it because it works well and there is no reason not to trust it. It was precisely because the Government was doing well that something had to be invented and attacked with all the cannons in all areas with rational and irrational indications. Thus someone even appoints the Prime Minister of the Government "Prince of Darkness" and this expression has probably come to a higher level of awareness, where he has repeatedly deepened or read by Harry Potter or the Lord of the Rings where such expressions are mentioned. I can say or compare the biggest opposition party with Janus, who has two faces: the party's president shows a kind face, while the party's vice president introduces methods that were characteristic immediately after the end of the war, and by 1948, when it was necessary to eavesdrop on the church, especially after church rituals, who associate with whom and what they say. Another example is the Roma in Ambrus, who were Roma until they entered the territory of our colleague Weber and then became Gypsies. Statistical data, in LDS, were themselves beautiful, in our current government themselves poor. The situation was just the other way around. At the same time, civil initiatives are growing on the ground that mine or make it impossible on the ground to implement projects set up by the Government and the local community and civil initiatives may be postponing a 30-year-old desire for a near future, although it is too late for the project that we are implementing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u199	Thank you. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President of the Government, we would underestimate you if you did not expect a reaction to public research and to the results of the presidential elections and to the referendum if you did not respond in a certain way. Of course, I estimate that the way you react to this government's bad policy is the fault of everyone else, except this government. During the period of this government we have criticised policies in the social field, in the field of health, you have acted with little rehabilitation - you have replaced ministers. Today it was also possible to hear that your actions were understood as a response to anti-government hysteria. I ask you, Mr. President of the Government, was it not your presidential candidate who warned that his first or first move would be to come to the National Assembly and draw attention to the social implications of this government, to the very large social disparities that occurred during your term of office? Today you didn't have time in your double performance to set up a mirror and let the Slovenian public know that instead of arrogance, when you talk about it and your ministers say that if the bread is irritated, we eat one or two days old bread. Is anti-government hysteria also the assessment by the Commissioner for Finance Almunia of the fact that 5% of inflation in Slovenia is a poor example for countries that will enter the euro area in the future? So I wonder if we can support such a policy further. Of course, my assessment is that no, and that it is very unfair, Mr President of the Government, to tell us in this regard about the feelings that those of us who do not support you will also express a poor traveller to Slovenia during the Presidency of the European Union. Of course, I'll vote against the confidential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u201	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! I will vote in favour of the Government and the Prime Minister of the Government. First of all, I would like to express my disappointment at the fact that I have not actually heard of a hero today who would somehow defend or defend the credibility of the press petition. Perhaps such a multitude of people, competent, earns at least on the part of those you fear on the other hand, and you do not even have an approximate margin for it, nor is your "super boy" likely to pick up a glove and take over the rule of this country. This option has been offered to you quite a number of times. Otherwise, we read all kinds: The government sucks to let the government rule, the government has let the exercise out of hand, the wagon has literally stopped in the mud. Or: Why, for God's sake, is this people so dissatisfied and critical? The country is plunged into a cataclysmic economic situation - a media offensive of an irreplaceable and lifeless unionist, a former party official and the last president [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The socialist associations of the working people, which alarmingly report this in their efforts for its fourth presidential permanent mandate. [[...]] How can it be that over 570 Slovenian journalists with their society, the vast majority, on the contrary, view media freedom as international researchers and institutions? Something must be really wrong. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I don't have time. [[...]] Perhaps only that the most "bossa" was spoken by nationalists; they would in their distinctive style [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u203	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. Respectable present. The fact is, today we wouldn't be discussing this if, a week ago, the right president of the country was elected on Sunday. This is why the swan song, announced by Slovenian journalists in 1990, apparently experiences its final epilogue. However, it is one added value that today, as an added value, is added to the lavold singing of this Parliament or the opposition. The very way of today's debate proves that I cannot explain my position as I would like it to be, because I have been deprived of my word. There are also numerous untruths, inventions and stories of conspiracy against the Government and the Prime Minister of the Government. The fact that, as Prime Minister of the Government, you do not know how many Members and Members have been elected in the last parliamentary elections on the list of Social Democrats, but you know everything else about this party - you have also said a lot about this in a double address today - is of course an irrefutable fact. These, of course, are hollow arguments as well. Therefore, I believe that Slovenia’s reputation in foreign countries is best shaken by those who do not allow any criticism of the government and the ruling, in all areas, to which [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It's the government's hand. [[...]] They tell the world that they sincerely seek unity. The cheapest substitute for imagination, the conspiracy of all kinds, is false and false. Therefore, all developments in the last week are primarily irresponsible behavior of you, President of the Government, due to rapid assessments, premature conclusions and many groundless conspiracies we have heard today. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in a double exposure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u205	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that. Good evening, everyone. Dear Government, you have my voice. For the first time since I supported you in 2004. Secondly, because I believe that they have been doing well up to this time, they have proved successful results for the benefit of citizens and also in many areas. Thirdly, because the Slovenian People's Party is part of this coalition and we respect this contract and we are on the same ship. Fourthly, because we have gained confidence from the voters in the elections, we have entered this government for four years, that is, by the end of the 2008 term, and then we will be counting on our success or possible failure. Also because we certainly have a historical event ahead of us, an event when our country will have this honour and opportunity to preside over the European Union and take advantage of this opportunity to make the Republic of Slovenia more recognizable both on the European and the world floor - if you will. Therefore, prepare yourself well and we believe that we will make good use of this opportunity. Also because I personally believe that we voted in the presidential elections this year directly to the President of the Government and not to the President of the State, because we were talking only about the Government and very little about the role and powers of the President of this country. I don't think there's any need to base that. And another thing, he was once a candidate for a liberal party at the time for the party's president, and no one blamed the Slovenian government at the time. And in the end, the respected Government, you have my vote, end your mandate upright and resolutely, in favour of Slovenia. I wish you a lot of success on the Slovenian and European floors, whether there are enough baskets or goals for the good of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u207	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Your Honors are here! The government's declaration of possible resignation was a surprise to me. In a television performance that was linked to this statement, however, Mr President of the Government, without real need, pointed out DeSUS; czech, there is no problem in the Government, but there is a problem in Parliament, with almost too much honour called Žnidaršič, whose voice does not show serious. Where does it say that I should vote in Parliament the same as our Minister in Government? Well, it's not that important. What's important is that then I made some statements because most journalists wanted to ask me immediately, "What are you going to do? How will you vote?" And I was also talking about who deserves my vote. But later I asked myself, who would benefit from arguing between me and the Prime Minister of the Government? It's no use! Surely there's no use for those out there. Because of this and due to the serious reflection in our party, in our Group of Members, I have decided that today is the time to strongly support the Government, that the time of action, the continued functioning of our Government, the best possible work for citizens, is to lead the European Union. Today's not the time for resentment. And for this reason, I will contribute to the Government's trust, and I count this one to be great, contrary to my initial predictions without a bad conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u209	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u210	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present. I think "the word is true" - this sentence does not hold for coalition and government, ladies and gentlemen. Do we have stores closed on Sundays? We don't. Do we have a third TV channel? We don't. Do we have a uniform tax rate? We don't. Is it income that he takes to the rich and gives to the poor? Far from it. And I could count it, but I only have two minutes. However, I would like to say that if the word does not apply, at least in the field of human resources, if you are fighting for Slovenia, and you would put people who are professionally qualified and capable of doing something, not by customer affiliation. The Farsa, which took place at the time of this government's appearance and later in companies, is known to us all. What happened at the research institutes - we all know it. What was going on at Owl Intelligence - we are all clear. What happened to the big press? The work was head-on, the evening was head-on, the RTV knows who they put up. But what happened to the Diary and the Youth - these things immediately fell down as far as the sponsor was concerned, so they had to go to recapitalisation. I thought, Mr. Janez Janša, that you would also tell us about these two books, what can you and the Arms Dealers do? [[...]] [[They warned us about the end of the debate.]] I think it is your duty to tell us, in Parliament and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, where this money has disappeared from the arms trade. [[...]] This is a great sin that weighs us down and respectable Mr Janez Janša, for all that you have done good for this country, I respect you, but never telling you where this money went, which is why you do not have my trust for you and for such a government that you are leading, we cannot vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u211	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u212	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, you know, but there are only a few of us left in this House that we do not want to be puppets in your hands. And I believe that we are well aware of the consequences of your reforms. If you don't mind, I'll start with a tax reform. What are the consequences of your tax reform that has burdened the capital owners? In January of this year, 16,000 workers with minimum wage are already 22 000. That's fresh data, obtained today. 200 000 pensioners with a pension of less than EUR 400, not to mention further. Indeed, we are in opposition, as we note the weaknesses of government policy, many other irregularities, corruption in health care - that is why the Minister, who is today our fellow Member, has fallen. Because at the expense of transferring money from one pocket of the budget into private pockets, also visible members of the SDS were suffering patients. That's your policy. I say, revered Prime Minister of the Government [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that there is no political crisis, but we are on the verge of an economic and social crisis. [[...]] There is no doubt, however, that we are in the period when you were affected by the personal crisis. Your government's policies are reflected in cynicism, negatism, rematchism, incompetence and bluff. If we wanted to resign as Prime Minister of the Government, then we wouldn't go for a term, a trust with your troops in the coalition, but we would go to the electorate and the electorate. I won't support your confidant.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u213	Thank you. Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u214	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! A respected choir! I must admit, I am extremely pleased to hear only about the Social Democrats these days. I like to listen to the comments of the authorities who are trying to point to us with a finger that we're not blindly following. We're social democrats, and we're a party with a reputation that gains people's trust, even if the government wants it or doesn't want it. We Social Democrats have burned this position down and earned it as well. At the beginning of our term of office, we offered the government a hand to be a constructive opposition. We told them that we will help them to achieve strategic goals for the future of Slovenia. We have shown ourselves to be a responsible opposition, but the government has often refused or refused to have it. When we warned about the human rights tsunami, which unjustifiably preferred client competences over professional ones, when we warned about public RTV politicisation - you have not yet reduced your orders today - when we suggested that you include workers and employees in profit-sharing; when we warned you to stop spilling the taxpayer's money so that you do not owe our children; when we asked you to stop reckless sales of state property, which is why we have several multibillionaires in Slovenia and the majority who actually value the bread, the respected Government, let me advise you not to play with journalists. Let me finish. You announced a marathon on the resolution on national development projects by 2023. As long as your record is 100 meters away, I won't give you my vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u215	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u216	Dear Mr. Janša! Just a year ago, or one day less in this room, I asked you how you see the world press dealing with the negative image of Slovenia - that was the question of the Roma. And in this room you told me that articles in foreign print are written in Slovenia. As early as 2006, 2005, when we had the State Department report and all other professional European institutions, not to mention them, because I have these fighters for a few minutes, one, two minutes, but you said that all of this was triggered in Slovenia. When Le Mont wrote when New York Times and Herald wrote about Slovenia, you said that Slovenia was writing in foreign newspapers. And when they went to the Journal to ask the editors, I think the Herald, they said, "Are you crazy, are you crazy that the Government of Slovenia is going to edit our newspaper?" And today you repeat the same accusations. You're talking about your own crisis, your own crisis, your own panic and your own fears because people are on the streets because the government has a bad opinion in public polls and because it wasn't good enough for the election. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Your Government. [[...]] You're acting like a child! Very childish and looking for faults elsewhere, not where they need to be. You've been ruling for three years in a way that everyone doesn't like. You started with a media coup, there was a short breath, and today this breath is turning against you. But you don't see the guilt where you need to look, but there, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] where there's no trust. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u217	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Respectable ministers. If I hadn't been in this House, I probably would have believed that we have an ugly and impossible government. But I will support you, and I hope you will continue to do at least as well, if not as well as you have done so far. However, as for the assessment of the situation and of Slovenia today, what the Social Democrats have written, I would still find out something about it. They write, I will read: "The ruling coalition, through political and capital connections, also influences the programming of some daily newspapers, and directly and through capital, also has a decisive impact on some other public publications. Journalists concerned about work and existence exercise self-censorship. Media silence on the government, contradictory and critical views or sanctioning journalists is a way to account for the government coalition with other thinkers." You're thinking with "other thinkers"! On the day of the electoral silence, Dr Lukšič, the vice-president of the SD party who wrote this, sent students to go and listen and write down what people will say; not only what they will hear in the church, but what they will also say outside, after mass, and report it to him. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] On election silence day. [[...]] And if this, ladies and gentlemen, is really some basic for the creation of a new one, I don't know, your program, some new "new deal", then this country's not doing so well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u219	Thank you. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u220	Respectable. On the day that all televisions from China to America and all neighbouring countries in the European Union reported on the start of the NATO historic summit in Riga, Slovenia was the only country with a second conscience. It was that that day, I quote, "There was nothing special about the Strojan family." That's one case. Second case. When it came to the Law on the Financing of Education and Education, when I did not know how many press conferences I tried to present to the public that, in fact, a hundred percent of the funding of private schools with the Church background had long ago, in 1996, gentlemen from the SD, as well as LDS, and others, did not want to publish it, although I showed everyone the chronic document, the vote, here slightly increased, from which it is clear. One of the reporters even threw it away and said, "I know it!" Excellent, Mr. Journalist, I believe you know this, but journalistic ethics obliges you to present important information to the Slovenian public. And that's bad. Here it was silenced - self-censored, if you want this term - some matter that would have a significant impact on public opinion, which is relevant to the public, but the public could not see it. Therefore, if there is any censorship or self-censorship, it is only to the detriment of this Government. And those who sent an extract from SD's political pamphlet abroad as a petition, colleagues, have been cruelly abused by the precious Institute of Journalism both at home and abroad. The rights of profaning Slovenia abroad with obvious falsehoods no one has. That is why Janez Janša will go to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u221	Thank you. Mrs. Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u222	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! I will vote in favour of the Secretary of the Government. I believe that the President of the Government has used that institute that he thought was appropriate and necessary at the moment. His conduct is legal and legitimate, and particularly responsible, as he estimated that it was no longer possible to rule because of the improper conduct of certain environments in Slovenia, which allowed themselves to discredit the Government abroad. Declarations at a time when Slovenia is preparing for the Presidency of the European Union when its face is and will be placed on the front of the European media, statements that Slovenia with this government poses a threat to the present and future of the European Union cannot be accepted or allowed. The government is not ideal, but it is our Slovenian government, also mine, which is the only one we have right now, and it seems that others do not want to rule. Our client has done well in this Government and our ministers and has done much in the area of the introduction of the euro, tax reform, rational government with the debt of the state budget, reduction of public spending, privatisation of the Maribor Bank, reduction of tariffs on notary services, serious measures to reduce judicial backlogs and so on. I want this Government to continue to work and to answer the question of whether we are able to restore the consensus that Slovenia has already been able to perform its task in the interests of Slovenia and Europe as we wish and others expect us to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u223	Thank you. Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. President of the Government! Somehow I am not getting along with you tying the Government's confidence to the fact that you will lead and preside over the European Union, especially when it comes to the fact that you yourself have made a statement that just before you took over the European Union's leadership you caused a political crisis, and you yourself have somehow highlighted the Government, which you have clearly considered unable to lead Slovenia, let alone the European Union. These two things don't work out for me. Of course, I am not getting along either, if I make a comparison of the work so far, especially in the tax area, i.e., the tax relief for housing has been abolished, so that all those who fill in the income forms will soon find out that there will be no more exemption for investing in housing. And, of course, I'm not getting along if we're facing high inflation and if interest on leased loans is going to be paid for all those who are going to build apartments, and they're going to have to pay expensive loans. Of course, I'm not getting along either, so all of you will have to pay for expensive food. Last but not least, I do not agree that the Consulting and Management Society is building a 200 million-euro state budget building for the needs of the court, the police, the ministries, while we are discussing the introduction of the provinces. I am not going together to build additional ministries, but at the same time we are writing about the provinces that we will also transfer the tasks from the ministries to the provinces. In short, too many decisions that do not give rise to confidence, so I will not support the confidence of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u225	Thank you. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u226	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Slovenian Government! As I have already announced, the entire New Slovenia Group will support this Government and support it further. For we see that there are still some open tasks under the title of the coalition treaty, which for me personally is not a self-government agreement, but a document signed by the most responsible people. I will support and give my trust to this Government also because none of you who sit here before us can see, cannot be found on the list of those who have made personal use and become billionaires during the period of the Slovenian robbery of the century. I like this country myself, but I sincerely say that I do not like to pay taxes, and I will also support this government because this government has reduced taxes on citizens and citizens, as well as burdened businesses or the economy. I'll operate on the numbers. The effects of the tax reform are showing and will continue to be gradually showing up until 2010 and represent a relative decrease in the revenue of the Republic of Slovenia's budget. The share of the tax revenue of the State budget in the gross domestic product has been declining since 2006. So in 2006 it was 22%, this year we expect 21.1% and we plan 20.4% in 2008 and in 2009 19.9% tax share in gross domestic product. This therefore means a reduction of 2.1% of the gross domestic product point between 2006 and 2009. In 2009, the tax revenues of the budget will for the first time in the history of independent Slovenia fall below 20% of the gross domestic product, which is why my vote as a confidant to this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u227	Thank you. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Looks like we got to the point where we have to make a decision. It is right to cut across the past when things were happening that were not worthy of us when Slovenia was being muddy abroad. I will give an example, especially because today someone has also asked for names: the place of this event of the European Parliament, the European Parliament from Slovenia's left options; the case has been deleted: "The question raised by the Slovenian Government has predicted that it will settle the matter with a specific constitutional law and thus indicate that it does not intend to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. When the Slovenian government announced that it would settle the matter with a special constitutional law, it indicated that it did not intend to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision." And go ahead. "Does the European Commission intend to take concrete measures to ensure that Slovenia meets EU standards and legal order, given that thousands of people, many of whom are Roma, have been deprived of their basic human rights?" Next: "As a liberal Member from Slovenia, I would also like to further point out that the current Slovenian government also explicitly rejects the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision, which requires 18,000 citizens of the former Yugoslavia to return to the homes of the former Slovenians who were illegally deprived of their homes in 1992. It is not only discrimination against minorities, therefore, but also a violation of the fundamental principles of the rule of law." Isn't that a terrible accusation against your own country? Is that the case? This is also a Member who has requested a conference on the Roma in Slovenia, as if this is the most helpful, as it helps with the recognition of Slovenia. I support the Government, so I will vote in favour because I want Slovenia to be well represented by the European Union and the world as a country of capable people who can bring species together for the common good, and I will vote in favour because my own country's profanity is very foreign to me. I will therefore vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u229	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u230	Dear Mr. President! I must once again express my resentment that today, Members of Parliament in this house, where we are at work, you have not allowed us to discuss, for if we are willing, then there is also a way. And if you wanted to, we could discuss it today. But it is sad that you do not want to hear our opinion, but it is even sadder that you hear the voice of people, citizens and citizens more and more rarely, and that you have thus lost contact with reality. Today, we have listened for two hours to criticism and to the bad intentions of all, especially the journalists. These, let's face it, have just received the greatest portion of your criticism, Mr President of the Government, and are a little uncondemned as traitors of the Slovenian people. You made a mistake when you were looking for the culprits, because you forgot that they might have signed a petition for civil solidarity. Today, there have been few self - criticisms, questions about the reasons for the decline in support and self - respect among you. It's been too little of a move you've made today with the school law. So far, you've been mostly stepmotherly and ignorant to the profession, civil society and society. A typical example is the adoption of the Law on Patients' Rights, which you have prepared without them. You're ignoring the capital and punishing it financially. You're in trouble with the hunters. Your leadership is making them desperate at the Oncology Institute. You promised to fight crime, corruption and clientism, you came to power with it, and today, Mr President, this is all around you and around your government. That's why you won't get my vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u231	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle. Excuse me, Milan Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u232	It's true it's Milan, but I'm ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u233	Two Milans, and I messed up. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u234	So let me start by saying that, of course, I will vote against the Government's confidential office. Unfortunately, the President of the National Assembly has prevented us from having a longer debate, so in my explanation of vote, I will only present a trifle, a stone in the mosaic of these criticisms, which, in the opinion of the President of the Government today, in my opinion, is unjustifiable. President of the Government, you're getting a bad attitude towards Members, to working bodies, to Parliament as a whole. Previously, you spoke of your generosity or generosity of the coalition, which allowed the opposition to lead the supervisory commissions. One such commission, that is, the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, I run it myself. This Commission also has the authority to examine the Court of Auditors' reports. And in the case of the Court of Auditors or this Mercator-related audit and the SOD and the CAD, these two people, the Director of the SOD and the Director of the CAD, did not wish and did not wish to attend this meeting. I wrote to you on 11 October as President of the Commission, who was given a mandate in this House. So, I wrote to you to ensure, as those who can through the Assembly, through the authorities, that both appointed gentlemen participate in the commission. This month and ten days, you didn't think it was necessary to answer. You have not replied, and I believe that this is therefore the confidence of Parliament and the non-trust of the Commission, which I am leading in this case. I'm glad that the Liberal Democracy has never agreed to your call for partnership, to your invitation to participate in some team for the presidency. At least we have not received these criticisms in the way that some of your partners have received. And that's why we think we did the right thing. Don't force us into a private office for the sake of the presidency, my confidant, Mr President of the Government and the Government as a whole, you don't deserve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u235	Once again, I must reiterate to all those who sit on the ears, Mrs Zalokareva and Mr Milan Petk, that it is not my caprice, that it is not a debate on the vote on the confidential, but that is the result of the Rules of Procedure adopted in 2002 and was proposed by a group of Members with the first-signed then LDS Group leader, Mr Anderlic. Please, everyone sitting on your ears, stand up a little bit. Mr. Squeakle, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u236	Thank you so much for saying that. Even though Mr Janša wants to do so, the opposition cannot end itself. The results are poor, and we need to keep that in mind. Life is hard, this has been seen in Saturday's demonstrations, and the government has to deal with problems. Food prices are twice as high as economic growth. You've raised the provinces by two percent to the pensioners. Gas is up 2% today at midnight. Actually, Mr Janša, you want to leave because you have bad results because you no longer build a just society and because you say you can't work in the atmosphere when you have "sticky hands". Some who published the book Arms Dealers say that there were many "sticky hands" between 1991 and 1993. Mrs Andrijana Starina Kosem wrote on 12 July this year: "The ruling coalition has, of course, influenced the media." I will end with the blog: "In fact, Janez Janša is acting like an insulted princess who has recently received some educational slaps, first by the opposition, journalists and then by the presidential elections and referendum of the people. If you can't rule, then leave and the time will come."
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u237	Thank you. Mr. Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u238	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honors are here! The criticism of the opposition is a legitimate matter, and something quite different is the discreditation of its own government or country abroad. I can't believe that any of the opposition types will get into the process of how the press sent this petition abroad, in what way. I myself have read the assessment of the situation of Pahor's Social Democrats, I have also read the petition of journalists and there is really only a difference in vocabulary. Nothing else. The contents are the same. It is more than obvious that this is a coordinated action by the opposition and - I stress - only some journalists who have used the confidence of their colleagues, who, in my opinion today, are deeply sorry for their signature after all this discussion. It's just a matter of manipulating some, stressing which are policy-related and allowing me just one example of how it's reported objectively. An example of economic growth in Slovenia and inflation. In 2003, when the previous government was 2.8% growth and inflation was 5.6%, the same media talked about how great the situation was this year, when we had 6.5% economic growth in the first half of the year and 3.2% inflation in October, but the situation is catastrophic. So much for the correctness of reporting some media. Government, my voice, of course, you get it. I believe you'll do at least as well as you've done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u239	Thank you. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u240	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues, nice evening. I will base my vote with three remarks: critical assessments in our analysis of our client's situation and in the petition do not yet reach the harshness of today's accusations on our account and on the petitioners' account. You obviously have problems with time and order, or you would have announced leaving or requested a confidential person when the petition was published and our analysis came to the website, not after the election of the President and after the referendum. And you don't have a sense of time either, because you were told how the petition and our analysis of the situation were created. If I have also understood your debate, Mr President, your resignation is still in play, despite the support of the 51 votes provided, because you are conditioning a confidant with unity, which is obviously not going to happen today. Have you told your coalition partners that it is still possible to leave? Well, in our client, I don't have a problem personally with your departure. Otherwise, if I did not support this government three years ago, when it enjoyed quite broad public support, how can I support it today when it is no longer supported and behaves so irresponsiblely? Well, I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u241	Thank you. Mr. Root.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u242	Good evening, everyone! We've already started the night work, because it's ten o'clock in the morning. First of all, as New Slovenia's Member of the Christian People's Party, I would like to say that I will be fully conscious and also think that I will fully support this Government today, but I will support it because I am sure that it works well, that people see its results as well. I know that there is still a lot to be done, and I am also sure that this Government will do much more for families with more children, for large families, even for those workers with minimum wages, and for many in this country. He was talking about freedom of speech. Yeah, freedom of speech, but don't lie. Let me say one example which, I take very personally, happened to me after the last emergency meeting of the Defence Committee, which my colleague Juri proposed and for which I think we have done it properly and well, but on the same day a very fat address appears on the diary website, which is very rare for Slovenia: "Nsi, we will also use the transport aircraft in the event of rescue in the mountains." Below with a very thick again: "Nsi, we will be able to use the aircraft in combination with rescue dogs." As the only member of New Slovenia on this committee, I did not say such a thing in my dreams, but in the Journal it is very fat. After the intervention of ours [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Experts have only eventually removed this inscription from the Internet and published a magnetogram of my debate. [[...]] No apologies to New Slovenia, no apologies to me personally. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u243	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u244	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor, the government. My voice will go to you again, because it seems to me that you have done a great deal for the Slovenian people in these three years, and it is right, even the responsibility of the electorate who entrusted us with this mandate to bring it to the place and to do something good. With regard to the media that have sent a petition to the world, I think you've been replaced by capitalists or owners of these media because they have money and they have an impact on them. On one occasion, one of the media representatives said to me, "We are working for the one who pays us," and he repeatedly said to me, "Pay, and it will be as you want." We don't want it to be better than it is, but only real. And that's why I think they turned to the wrong one and that we should go negotiate at Forum 21, there are rich, there are capitalists and owners of these big companies. That's why my voice will go to the government again.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u245	Thank you. Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u246	Respectable. I am very disappointed as a Member and, above all, as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, who has to listen and experience what has been happening lately when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its efforts and preparations for the Presidency of the European Union are being fully evaluated. It is clear that it is trying to drive the government, this country, its citizens and its citizens, and its reputation in Europe and the world, only because the government and the coalition are successful and, among other things, have cut off the old formations of the modern tycoons, has greatly reduced unemployment by 23,000 people - this is an extremely large number. It has been able to provide conditions for an increase in fertility, which has been the largest in the last 10 years. It is concerned that pensions increase, halves notary expenditure, creates a better and more favourable environment for the development of entrepreneurship, adopts decisions on the gradual abolition of wage taxes, excellent economic growth and could list much more. Personally, I appreciate the Prime Minister's statement that he has come to Parliament. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] as a confidant for a very responsible, state-owned and well-intentioned government, because it is not a government that wants to rule, but a government that wants to work in the interests of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and not to rule, and it is very different from governments in the past, whose key objective was to remain in power at all costs and rule. [[...]] Of course, I will be very happy to support the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u247	Thank you. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. President of the Government and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I have three reasons why I'm going to vote as a confidant today. First of all, Mr President, I am also disappointed that the former coalition has given me only two minutes of this debate because in 2002 the coalition adopted its rules of procedure in this House - I voted against - and today I would like to say more, but unfortunately I cannot. Why will I vote for - for three reasons? First reason. In 1996, when the Ministry of Telecommunications led present-day fellow Member Pavel Gantar, he did everything and more to prevent the return of those who had built the telecommunications network. Not only has this government made sure that this is coming back, but it has also changed such a rigorous law that previously allowed only about 10%, but now it will return about 80% to 90% to investors in the telecommunications network. Second of all, why am I going to vote in favour? Because this Government has amended the so unjust Law on the Financing of Municipalities of 1998 and for which even the Constitutional Court has found that it was not solidarity, that there was no equality and justice in it, as stated in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And only this law, which we received last year, has built-in solidarity, equality and justice. All those who say they'll get something back, and that's what the richest tycoons are saying, and not even the Constitutional Court rulings could read. And the third time, colleagues and colleagues, if this government doesn't pull the project forward, which is good for the citizens. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u249	Thank you. Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u250	Your Honors are here! I will vote against the trustee of this Government because the trustee is just a smoke bomb thrown by the President of the Government to divert attention from the real problems; because Janez Janša and his Government are not an equation for Slovenia; because the government supports the coalition, but not the opposition, because the opposition is a jewel in the parliamentary system, without it there is no democracy, without the opposition there is no control of the government; because the trustee is sought for the support of those who participate in the government, and you can do so at a coalition meeting and there is no need for the entire National Assembly to do so; because the local arrogance and the mistakes you make cannot be placed under the European Union; because the opposition, unless there are 46 votes, cannot elect the new Prime Minister of the Government, cannot elect the mandate if it succeeds, is no longer the opposition. The press petition came before our assessment of the situation, and it's not a result of our assessment of the situation. And if I use what the President of the Government has said about my love for my country, I will vote in favour, says against this government, I will vote against the confidant because I love my country because I love Slovenia. And in the end, the so-called so-called birthrate, which increased in 2004, is said to be the cause of 2004, at least for 2004, in 2003, and this government probably does not take credit for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u251	Thank you. Since the interest in explanations of vote is still in my name, I am opening the application again. Please report to anyone who wishes to explain your voice. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u252	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! I will vote in favour of the Government, not only because of the Presidency of the European Union, but because the Government is doing well because the government has done well so far. I come from an area that has in the past been plagued by major developmental problems under all the government's previous tactics. In these last three years, I must say that today is not ideal, but a lot has changed for the better in terms of decommissioning the economy due to tax changes in the sense that the local communities today are much more creating or creating for better living conditions for citizens and citizens in order to reduce unemployment, and there are many things that I could count. This is recognised by the economists, this is recognised by citizens and citizens, this is acknowledged by the mayors, and in the final stage the pensioners acknowledge. Of course, this is acknowledged by all those who are not misled by false information, all those who know how much this government has done so far. And that is why I want this government to end this mandate as well. I firmly believe that it will also successfully complete it, so I will also support the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u253	Thank you. Mr. Versnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u254	Your Honor! To be honest, the President's announcement about the possible withdrawal of the Government and today's vote on the Government's confidence must have come. Even such steel nerves as the President of the Government must be released from constant and synchronized attacks on him and on the whole Government sooner or later. It is unacceptable and irresponsible, however, to malign the state of Slovenia abroad. Despite the undeniably good decision that increases pension growth in line with wage growth and the fact that pensions increased by 4.7% in 2006 and 3.8% again in February 2007 and that 2% increase is foreseen for November, which means a total of 5.8% nominally and realistically by 2.4%, which is entirely consistent with wage growth; however, no nice word is found in the media or in the pensioners themselves. Also, the fact that [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] With the euro taken over, we have landed at the club of the 13 most developed since according to Eurostat we have reached 91% of the European Union's gross social product in the current year, or around 22.3 000 euros per capita, measured by purchasing power, very little is said about these facts, and even less is written. [[...]] [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] In view of the Government's successful work so far, and in view of the fear it has felt in the opposition that it should take power, I will vote responsibly and militarily for the Government's trustee. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u255	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u256	Respectable. The confidant, of course, as I mentioned earlier, is a completely normal, legitimate way in which the President of the Government checks whether the coalition she supported still enjoys confidence, but of course there is more. It is also, of course, a ritual that tries to maintain and maintain collective cohesion, inner strength. Of course, any coalition is somehow starting up contradictions, tensions, even certain frustrations, because everything is not going the way they thought in their heads, and, of course, with such rituals, it is necessary to focus anger outwards, on others, others are guilty and especially on the opposition, clearly on the media and of course also on civil society. I would like to point out that I was very surprised at the performance by the Prime Minister. I must say, I hope he won't mind that I read this speech as a speech by the opposition champion, as a performance, like some kind of very black white judgment, one-sided and one-sided qualifications - such as we have known from the previous term. And believe me, I see many times in many people, I do not say to everyone in this government that they speak as if they are opposition, that they act as if they are opposition, and they act as if they are opposition, but they go to government palaces to work. However, after three years you will have to decide what you are, what you want to be and what you want to do. I would say, above all, that it is not just legislation that directs government power in this area. One of the newspapers, which was repeatedly mentioned, was reported by marketing experts, and in 2005 it came from government procurement. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] had about 4 million euros, 2006 half of that, 2007 nothing. As for mud, if we can tell, we'll all have to work together today [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u257	Thank you. Mr. Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u258	Thank you, Mr. President. Ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I will support the proposal or this government myself because I support unfinished projects. A few days ago, one of his fellow Members mentioned that we have three strategic projects in Slovenia: first - independence, second - the first phase of local self-government, which was carried out in 1995 and second, that is the second stage of local self-government, which if this government did not get a trust, would end up as an unfinished project, which would be bad for Slovenia. In the parliamentary procedure, all the laws that will allow for the formation of the provinces in 2009 and also the first elections in the provinces at the end of next year are in 2008. A few words more about the petition. Look, this petition was also signed by 10 retired journalists. I don't know what kind of evil government does to these journalists. I hope these journalists are not doing any other evil than dreaming in principle: Remember, comrades. The same petition was also signed by the writers of the Pioneer Letter and the Children’s Reading, and this is probably what this injustice is done that it is not the best thing to write about couriers. That's why I'm going to support the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u259	Thank you. Mr. Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u260	Thank you so much for saying that. I will also support the confidence of this Government, even though some people are still and in every way trying to destroy these results, even though I have been listening for three years to the predictions of some Nostradamus, how everything is wrong in Slovenia, how this government is not able to carry out exactly any project. Such claims were overwhelming. When we were changing and coordinating pensions to keep pace with wages, they said, "The pension system will collapse, there will be no pensions", and so on. And nothing happened. Pensions are regular, they are aligned, just as they are determined by the law. VAT raise - it didn't happen! Despite the fact that many have been able to say that this way we will simply not cover these public finances. He didn't. Neither has public finances collapsed for other reasons, even improving the condition, reducing the public deficit, we have a budget that is saved and developed. Workers are supposed to be out of jobs because of their incompetence. That didn't come true either. Unemployment has fallen and is currently one of the lowest in Europe, 4.6% somewhere in the second half of this year, and the number of unemployed workers has fallen by 23,000 in this mandate. Something had to be done for that. It's not just what you do. However, these predictions have not come true because they simply have no real basis, no real arguments for them, but also because the government has not allowed them to do so. That is why I will support this government; a government that will work for the good of Slovenia at home and abroad. As for the mandate of those who say they have not been given a mandate to take responsibility for this country. It is true that they currently have a disabled mandate in the SD, because the four members of their parliamentary group have not been given a mandate in the elections to sit in those benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u261	Thank you. Mr. Rugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all ministers, and especially to Mr President! If you allow me, I might be able to conclude that the paper does indeed carry everything, especially if it is a newspaper under control and control, such as the Social Democrats. I can tell you myself the first lesson I have experienced here in this House when I took up a just solution and even obtained the signature of a Member of the Social Democrats - the next day I found myself in the paper, because the other two Members of these same Social Democrats called a journalist and we were blacked out with this MP just to show us in a bad light and to raise ourselves up as some saints. I think that this way of social democrats, when they go through the victims, even though they are their own victims, cannot bring them far. However, if you could talk briefly about inflation - no one may wonder how this inflation happened, perhaps the result of what it is, even taking over the euro. What has happened in the past? Our social partners have caused us to raise wages or raise them according to inflation. That's all right; only, but she didn't adjust the exchange rate to these matters. It is said that we have actually raised wages compared to the euro, compared to 200 million Europeans and over 200 million. This means that this can also be the cause. However, if I were to conclude briefly: as much teasing as is happening here in this National Assembly, I would probably even shut up even the cowards in the spring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u263	Thank you. Mr. Bručan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u264	Good evening to you all, Mr. President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will support the Government of Janez Janša, because I have participated in this government on my own two months ago and I know that the Government is doing well, as well as the President of the Government and, of course, sovereign. My resignation, then agreed with the Prime Minister, was largely due to the operation of the same groups that are now mutilating the state of Slovenia abroad with lies, similar to those that were being fomented by me, and some of them are still in parliament here today. Here, let me say something about the Paediatric Clinic, with which this Government and I, as Minister, have not signed any wrong contract in the implementation of this clinic, especially in the award of concessions. None of the concessions, today the speech was given here by Mr Lahovnik, was unlawfully granted. All the concessions, from first to last, were awarded under this Government, in which I was the Minister of Health myself, legally and if the first one shows me a concession that was granted unlawfully, I will talk to him immediately, but there is no such concession. And there's something else about the media. When Mr Kyprian, Commissioner for Health, was here, they wanted to find out from him in any way, print out something that we bought bad operating tables. When he refused them that it was stupid to talk about it, let alone report it, only the address was published in the newspaper, that Mr Kyprian had expressed some concerns about these tables, and not a single sentence about it in the text itself, because it was not possible to write about it because he did not want to talk about it. The following flowers are medicines, the prices of medicines, where they were written in the title The prices of medicines fly to the sky, and after saving at the annual level with a regulation of about 36 million euros! And, of course, I will support this government also because I want many projects to be completed just before they are realized.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u265	Thank you. Mr. Pike.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u266	Thank you for your word. Honorable President, ministers, colleagues, colleagues! Of course I'll support this government. Why? Because I did it three years ago and I didn't lose confidence in my eyes, especially because this government is producing good results. I would only mention some good results in that area of economics, which I am also covering. It is necessary to mention economic growth of 6.5%, unemployment of 4.6%, the lowest in Slovenia alone. The employment of the disabled has increased, and this is drastic. Youth employment has increased. And these are all good indicators. When these indicators were reversed, and not long ago, there was talk of a success story. Now it's all wrong from one mouth. Really. Inflation has increased slightly, but it has not been so drastically increased that it should be condemned. Any large, high economic growth also brings a little inflation to bear, of course, it has given rise to irritation in the world's oil and food markets and, of course, to the pressure of trade, which I think is unjustifiable. That's the main reason for this bad part, for inflation. I think that the government will save her too, and that it will bring her into normal frameworks, it is also worth supporting the government because there are still a lot of things open, and I believe that this government will successfully solve these open things, so I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u267	Thank you. Mr. Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u268	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Honorable Council of Ministers, Honorable Fellows and Fellow Members! I will also be happy to support this Government today and, in fact, in addition to the reasons given by the Members of the Slovenian People's Party and, finally, the reasons why the Government will be supported by the entire coalition, I have another very important reason why, of course, I will be particularly pleased to support this government. This government has responded tremendously in the wake of the terrible natural disaster that struck us in the Railways. A severe flood wave, a severe wave of water caused great material damage in the Railways and, in fact, a lot of people were put somewhere near the basic dwellings. On the same day, the President of the Government himself visited the Railways Government four more times that week. Finally, at that time, of course, he took time to visit those families who were most injured. The other ministers also visited the railways and did not just stay on the promise. The fact is that this Government has provided money first for those basic interventions and, last but not least, this Government has also provided money for partial remedial measures. And I am sure that this government holds to its word and that we will continue to do so when that permanent rehabilitation begins, that we will also get to the means. In the Railways, the people most at risk are very pleased with this government. And I'll say it again. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u269	Thank you. Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u270	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Good evening to all. A acquaintance, a journalist and also a signatory to this petition told me on the day that the petition was indeed not based on pure truth and that it was tending in its own way, but, so he told me, achieved its effect. This is what we all do in Slovenia today. We have been talking about this for hours and the world is convinced that we live in some kind of dictatorship in Slovenia. Unfortunately, some of my former colleagues still feel that they are social politicians, as if they had to create politics instead of writing, commenting and reporting on policies and policies. And so today we are witnessing one of the largest intellectual black buildings in Slovenia. It is interesting, however, what has already been said today that there was no petition at the time when the former authorities illegally obtained copies of telephone conversations at the time of journalist RTV Slovenija Tomaž Ranca. There was also no petition months ago when it was found that the former authorities were listening to the opposition leader then John Janša. No one in the Slovenian space has informed the international institutions that the former authority, with the help of the secret services, has supervised journalists and the leader of the opposition. Ranc was revealing the Vit-Holmec affair. This is an affair which was exported from Ljubljana to Koroška. It has revealed irregularities and, within this, political corruption. It is essential that in the epilogue of this judgment, which we are witnessing, we also inform or inform the press colleagues also GREKO, a group of anti-corruption countries at the Council of Europe. Mr Drago Kos, President of GREKA, and he could make this judgment known to the international organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u271	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I'm not going to support the government. I'll vote against it. But there's something I'd like to say. At the beginning of the week, it was absolutely clear how many votes this Government had. 49 plus 2, that's 51. And she's getting so many votes today. And now we're wondering why this government has been dealing with itself for a week instead of serious economic problems, such as the issue of inflation or a whole range of other issues, to get exactly the same result you had at the beginning of the week. It took a week. And since we will vote against all opposition groups, I ask you, Mr President of the Government: What is the next step? The exact same result from the beginning of the week to today, as far as those against us are concerned. Therefore, on this occasion, I also urge you to take the next step, step aside, what you have predicted, if you do not want to do anymore, if you are unable to carry out with this country. Otherwise, if you do not want to do so, save us the kind of drama that we have been given this week, and I call on you, also as one of the signatories to the cooperation agreement. Call in the trail of all those who have signed this agreement, and we are willing to assist you in the presidency if you think there are any open issues. Of course, do not interrupt our rights which are clear and which result from this agreement as set out in Article 10, and this is that the opposition uses all the instruments it has available to control the authorities. That's why we were elected. And these instruments include inflation. That's what I'm really asking you to think about, what was the reason why we wasted a week of our time working with ourselves. This is not good for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u273	Mr Lahovnik, it is now a stage of explanation for the voice and not a debate or question to the Prime Minister, because he cannot answer, he no longer has a word. Mr. Drofenik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. President of the Government with the ministerial team, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! I will vote in favour of the Government and this because I believe that a lot of positive things have happened in Slovenia over the last three years and that the Government has worked well with the entire team and that relatively good progress has been made in Slovenia. I'd like to make a few points, why I think so. For the first time, the economic climate in the country is good. Slovenia has not had such a good economic and developmental positive path or growth in history. The unemployment rate is among the lowest in the European Union, and I think that this economic development, despite some problems, can fuel us with optimism. Secondly, this Government has given adequate attention to the financial situation of local communities and has thus contributed exceptionally to their rapid development. Unfortunately, there was no such thing in previous governments. Especially if we know that there has been an intensification of the repair and maintenance of state roads. Similarly, the government has taken regional legislation seriously, without a fig in its pocket, and this is also one of the reasons why this government must endure. Third reason, I would mention [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Schengen borders to be introduced shortly. [[...]] I think it's that one who's been in previous times in the previous country that we remember how easily we walked abroad, actually. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u275	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, the government. It is true that where work is done, it is also wrong, but the distinguished President of the Government - you say you are doing well but at the same time, at the last meeting you have highlighted 10% of us living under the edge of poverty. That's 200,000 people, you know. Your secretary says 42% of people on social transfers, do you know how many families this is? But at the same time, I'm listening to lies about unemployment getting smaller - how? By deleting disabled people from the line waiting for you to wipe out inactive job seekers who didn't answer the phone twice when they were called? That's how these species get smaller. Workers who work honestly do not have the right to profit, but they are forged by those who are essentially enormously rich. You say we're a social state. It is difficult to support you if we do not respect Article 2 of the Constitution if they do not have the right to be satisfied. And, you know, when workers want to be left behind by companies that run well and work well in them, you sell them. You have sold General Sailing, you will sell Slovenian Railways, you will sell Intereuropa, a hen carrying two golden eggs, not one, Luca Koper. You're gonna sell all of this. Workers who are sick of asbestos leave their deaths without justice. When I was in Roška, I saw the inscriptions "Janša, go home!" I thought so, and today I think so. Dear Prime Minister, it's best if you step down.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u277	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u278	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Some surprise calls for a vote on the government's confidential voice. I am more surprised by the articles, such as in the last Magu, "Misses for Columnists", in which the journalist says that the president of the party Zares, Gregor Golobič, arranges lunches with the designers of public opinion, some of whom also call them "Dovebic Grammys", the government of Miheljak, Nikola Damiani, Petr Bozič, Frack Yuri, Milet Šetinc and Igor Vidmar. Then these gentlemen can be seen on TV as independent commentators of elections, of events in Slovenia, because the final lunch can be organised by anyone, there is no problem, but I doubt that at these lunches they talk for three hours about their leisure activities and how they play tennis. This is also questioned by a journalist who writes about it and says that they usually talk for three hours and analyze the current political situation, which they are clearly familiar with. We do not organize lunches in our parliamentary group, but we organize press conferences, which journalists also come to, respond to the invitation, listen to us, and then, surprisingly, the next day in the newspapers, a modest novelty, comment or not. I don't mind the comments myself, all right, but first you have to say what we're commenting on. And as a Member, I miss this most, the basic information about the laws that we are talking about. It seems unfair to me from our opposition colleagues to accept everything by voting not to include them. You've received material from how many things this government has accepted, and you've been involved with many. I will support this government because I am confident that, along with the opposition, it will also adopt many good laws in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u279	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u280	Thank you so much for saying that. The government, the prime minister, has lost the referendum and wanted to minimize the election of his presidential candidate by throwing a bone to the public. But then the forecast of the withdrawal still turns out to be a bit too big a bone. As a result, the resignation turns into a vote on the confidentiality, and the reason suddenly appears to petition journalists, which is certainly a kind of absurdity. The government, which receives an undisputed confidence in the presidential elections, is then expected to disable and destabilise the petition. Two hours ago, the president of the government was talking about how bad things were. And the situation is really bad. We can agree on that. However, this is not the fault of the journalists and the opposition, which, by the way, is always being voted over. This government and its laws are supported by the position and the government and position would be responsible for possible successes and now the government is also responsible and responsible for a situation such as, for demonstrations in the streets, for the lost referendum, for the fact that there is another referendum in the air where citizens will again show you mistrust and disagreement with your solutions. And you can't convince people with these tricks. But you've done some damage. You have harmed people, damage to the economy, because by the way the shares have fallen very much, you have done damage to the credibility of Slovenia abroad. Therefore, I regret that there has been a vote, I regret that it has only just come today. For just as I will vote against today, I would have loved it much sooner, and this would have been better for Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u281	Thank you. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Of course, I will support the government too, because I trust her, I know she's doing well, she's active and she's fulfilling her coalition programs. At the same time, it is also a programme selected by Slovenian voters or nationals of Slovenia in the last parliamentary elections. I recall some of the black predictions made by opposition parties and, in particular, some of the opposition bulwarks about how harmful the consequences of the legislative reforms it has been preparing will be proposed and then advocated by this Government. Above all, I have in mind the adoption of budgetary and tax documents and how you are and some have talked about the financial breakdown of public finances if these laws are adopted. These laws were then passed in the National Assembly, and you have proved to be very poor forecasters or predictors, since your black scenarios have never come true. Moreover, the government's expectations have taken place and Slovenia has achieved such economic and financial growth as the whole of Europe envies us. One of the very exposed factors in undermining the government's reputation and blocking certain necessary legal changes is the president of the Drago Kos Anti-Corruption Commission, who did not copy and choose funds in his anti-government activity. It is a man who, in carrying out his duties legally established, acted unlawfully while listening to the telephone conversations of journalist Ranc and thereby grossly violating human rights. And the political party who was in the opposition today, which was then in power, allowed him, through his Vice-President, to prosecute him for these actions. That is why I can understand much more today the political motive of Mr Kos, who is returning the favor to his political botts, on which he was dependent when they were in power and is also dependent today when they are in opposition. That's why, not only will I be President or Government of President Janša [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u283	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u284	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, the Council of Ministers! I'm sure we went a little too far tonight with the dramaturgy. We have been talking for five hours, and probably if we ask those at home in front of television audiences watching us, we have not convinced anyone that what we are doing today is good for Slovenia, that this will make people live a better life, that inflation will be much lower than 5.1%, that those who have between 400 and 500 euros of wages or pensions will live a little easier to finance communities better and so on. I sheep never, and it has never been given to choose shepherds, roles and tasks, so the opposition in this National Assembly has no mandate to support the government. You'll do it again. I hope it's successful. Here is the President of the Government, and there is also an extensive ministerial assembly, and there is no doubt that all these people have a more important job than that we have made the results of the presidential elections a tragedy in many ways. If the President of the Government, like any politician, thinks he is doing well and well, then, of course, let the mosquitoes and flies not or anything, but let him lead his way. When I was elected mayor, one of my younger associates said to me, "Look, politician, let the mayor do what he thinks is right." Not that people are gonna like it any minute. And this is the mission of all of us. Let each one keep his own direction and his own goal. When the time comes, people will redistribute the cards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u285	Thank you. Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministers and Ministers! I will vote in favour of the Government of Janez Janša, because I am sure that the Government has prepared well for the most decisive task ahead of us in the mandate, this is for the EU Presidency. I am confident that the Government will end this well and justify the mandate it received in the 2004 elections. I am not surprised by the behaviour and behaviour of the opposition, especially the opposition, whose majority of the members have never been able to get over the retreat from power, and from this point of view the conduct is just the way it is. Legitimate; however, it is questionable if you do not show yourself to think about it, but if only the time has not come to make some constructive effort in the direction that is needed to successfully complete this responsible task, which we jointly adopted four years ago - this is the Presidency of the European Union. I recall when I was in opposition under the 2002-2004 mandate that we supported all European projects, and you cannot even define yourself until the obvious mud of the state of Slovenia abroad. This is what I think is the biggest problem, especially you, as the opposition. You can't define yourself until you make a false statement on the petition, you don't want to tell us which of the capital links you're referring to in your assessment of the situation, you don't want to give a single case of a violation of media rights and media freedom that is supposed to be [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u287	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u288	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I will, of course, support the government of Janez Janša, because it is a good government, and especially because we obviously have incompetent opposition in this country. See, last week the opposition was panic and alarmed when the President of the Government set up a mirror and at one point began to say, "There is no political crisis, there is no economic crisis," even though they said this all the time. Today, right before, they were talking about drama, about opposition, last week. And the worst part is, I think you're saying you don't have a mandate to represent people. This is an underestimation and an insult to the electorate. One disgraceful insult to the electorate. All of us in this Chamber have been elected by a mandate to form those most capable of running the country, and because of these shameful insults, I call on you to return your mandates and leave them to those who are waiting for you. Maybe they're more democratic and respect voters. However, we do not have a mandate to insult this country in order to defile this country in order to export non-compliances outside the country for the purpose of discrediting this country. And, unfortunately, this is also happening for budget money. Drago Kos, who has so far tried to limit journalists, has, as proved in court, misused money for budget money, ordered the purposeless use of money, a study at the Faculty of Law, to overwhelm the police, to unduly oversee the Roma. That in Slovenia 6,000 Roma are imprisoned in camps. This has also been produced in these species. I didn't hear anyone, even from the press, even though I think they're mostly abused journalists, resisted inviting him to resign. Because he has no legitimacy and no credibility to prosecute corruption, because he is not a persecutor, he is part of a political project. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u289	Thank you. Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u290	Thank you for your word. Of course I'll support the government on my own. We have been hearing from the opposition for the past week that Prime Minister Janez Janša himself wants to take away the role of the critical opposition. Of course it's funny and it's not true. For there is nothing wrong with the opposition looking down on the government and being critical of it. However, it is a serious problem when the same opposition calls for malicious criticism by the government in civil society institutions. And these civil societies are going in this even so far as to mutilate their own country abroad. And all of this with only one purpose - to discredit this Government on the one hand, and on the other hand to preserve some beautiful images of those top representatives of the opposition, so that they remain unharmed, beautiful and in a series of cameras always ready for consensus, but unfortunately only in words, not in actions. If the government of Janez Janša today had such support from the media, by civil society, by trade unions, as the opposition is currently headed by the Social Democrats, then the current government would certainly be forged into stars, given its success, I am sure of that. My vote for the Government of Janez Janša today also means a voice against the impatient politics of the Social Democrats. This has been proved several times by not respecting human rights, even though they try to prove otherwise; we know the cases; the latter is, say, Lukšič. At the same time, my vote for the government of Janez Janša is a voice against those who defile Slovenia abroad, pointing only to the fact that they have nothing sacred to do with achieving their political goals and that they care about the reputation of the country abroad. I will also support the government because John Janša from all his political beginnings builds on actions, and the actions are the ones that count, and not just the words he likes [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u291	Thank you. Mr. Loveshek.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u292	Your Honor! Let me begin with the thought of the respected Slovenian, Dr. Trstenjak: "We Slovenians have spent a thousand years with honesty when you are gone, we will perish as a nation." I ask whether we have really lost the sense of values, for honesty, for a healthy environment, that we are divided into two inconvenient camps, because some people do not know and do not want to stop in their personal and party political ambitions, in a desire for importance, power, influence, capital, when everyone else who is not on their side would like to take all the three-year term, regardless of Slovenia's welfare, to take a side path. All of this is done by instigating, falsehoods, false accusations and by suing Europe with only one unstoppable desire for reincarnation. We Slovenians were at a crossroads 15 years ago, and we chose the right path, so today would be the time to grow up and take responsibility for this country. Criticism and criticism of everyone who is not at the will of the opposition is taking us to an unhealthy society, where the development of the country should also be based on honesty, legality, mutual trust and respect. At least we need so much patience and honesty from the opposition that the country can function normally and also have a reputation abroad. I support this Government and the Prime Minister of the Government because I am sure that Slovenia is taking its garage and honest work along the way that brings us closer to the best in Europe. Today and at this time before the Presidency of the European Community, it is time for a great deal of historical responsibility for all of us, regardless of the fact that all the masks have fallen on the political scene in these very last days.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u293	Thank you. Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u294	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! Tonight we are only voting on the confidential and the crisis of the Slovenian Government. The Slovenian Government is solid, the coalition is solid and there is no need for this whole show that we are witnessing. What we are witnessing here today is some sort of an act of mourning, probably the most affected by the title of suffering the weeping leader or the conspiracy against the government. The pain is supposed to come from the fact that the opposition does not love this government or journalists are supposed to want all the worst and also Slovenia. All of this would suggest that Slovenia should normally preside over the European Union. Whoever believes this is more than naive. One thing we are talking about here tonight is whether this government will be able to create the impression that the people like it more than the message they received in the elections and the message it received at the referendum. For now, the message is clear. Trust, which was high, disappeared and would have been returned to show that it would have been checked in the elections. Elections are probably the best way out for Slovenia. This government of credibility will not recover, and every step it takes in the future will be more or less a step into the sand. That's why we don't need 10 signatures, Mr President, alone, and that's yours to step down, that's enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u295	Thank you. Mr. Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u296	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. The Honorable Prime Minister of the Government with the team. If we listened a little more carefully to the President of the Government in his explanation, perhaps tonight's debate would be going in a slightly different direction than it was. The President of the Government did not stress the importance of this Government, but stressed the importance of Slovenia in the European Union. And this is a fundamental message, which he also supported by explanation, it is not about this government, it is about Slovenia. Today this government is for a year or in the coming days or if you want to for months, there will be another government and it is not a government, it is a state. It is a young Slovenia that takes over, which is just before taking on the responsibility and one of the most important tasks in which we participated in both the position and the opposition. But when we talk about journalism, and you are respected and respected, please, let us also talk about those journalists who are in the service of people who control Slovenian media. Capitalists and journalists also serve these people with the help of their pens. It's not like you can cover your eyes here, but these reporters don't hope and they can't write the truth, it's censorship. It's not about censorship when they write journalists who are well-paid. They serve journalists who are contractually employed, who do not hope to talk about how bad wages they have, how bad working conditions they have. Here we should open this media space and here we should ask these journalists how they serve those authorities who are majority-owned by Slovenian media, under the nickname LDS and SD. We talked about it, and you don't want to talk about it, and you don't want to talk about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u297	Thank you. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u298	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear Council of Ministers! Of course, I will support this Government, which I am extremely proud of, and I believe that this Government is proud of 100,000 citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. So much good for Slovenia and for these citizens in Slovenia has not been done by any Government, and I find it difficult to believe that one will have as much desire and knowledge as this Government has. However, I am extremely affected by the mucking of our country, our country abroad, and I believe that every citizen who is for our country, our country, especially if we remember how this country was created and how victims fell for this country. I cannot find the right words for the parties to this petition, which has been proven by the opposition, especially by the Social Democrats, whether you admit it or not, and who, in order to achieve your objectives, are actually using your country and also many journalists who have inherited this petition. I am convinced that if there were anything or a piece of truth in this petition, we would have a Trenja broadcast on this subject, we would have an extraordinary session here, we would have a number of discussions where we could discuss these things here with arguments. And since that wasn't true, you didn't ask for it. I believe that the Government will have a confidant and that its role of leadership will be carried out professionally and thus restore Slovenia's reputation, given that due to this petition Slovenia has also unduly lost it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u299	Thank you. Mr. Homan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u300	Thank you for your word. Dear government, distinguished president! The debate showed that this Government is doing its work with a heart, conscience, responsibility, and that if someone does his work with a heart and a conscience, with knowledge, success is also being followed. And this government has success. He's got something to show us, and it's as foreign as his country. I'm glad, it's not long since we went abroad and asked how things were arranged abroad. Today is a time when foreign people can come to teach us. Many foreign statesmen come to us to ask how you have this arranged, how you have achieved such high economic growth, how you have made this law, how you have made that law, and this is the success of this country we must be proud of. The Prime Minister of the Government was there when the state was forming, and believe me, if anyone cares what the situation in this country is, then he certainly doesn't care. And once you have received a letter or petition and at the end of a petition sentence, the Presidency of such a country may be a worrying sign of the present, and even more so of the future of the European Union, then I believe that it is disappointed, and that it has come to take the confidence of this Parliament and get the confidence of my mouth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u301	Thank you. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u302	Thank you so much for your word and good evening! Today we had the opportunity to listen to a high song dedicated to the love of the country in the closing address of the Prime Minister. But what is a country and love for it. Are we not primarily all of us, citizens and citizens, and is not love for her, above all, love and respect for all of these people, not just some of them. Therefore, it is not possible to support the Government, which follows in particular or even only for the benefit of rare voters. Government policy measures increase the well-being of only some individuals. The tax legislation adopted has reduced tax progress and evaluated the principle that everyone should make a relative contribution depending on their economic power. So let those who have more also contribute relatively more. With the tax reform, 800,000 taxpayers received only a few euros, and the richer they got for a good car in the mandate of this government, which was why it was mainly a burden for some and a significant increase in net salaries of the richest. In addition, instead of 50 % of the taxation of the capital gains on the basis of the transitional enrichment, only 20% of the taxes were imposed, but instead of 6% of the housing relief for more than 100 000 beneficiaries who are just creating a home and family, only tax relief was imposed on the payment of interest for the richest recipients of denationalisation bonds. Instead of facilitating books, investment in knowledge, medicines are introduced to tax interest. After just over a thousand euros in relief, 1 euro in interest is paid to the state. This government has made the announcement that the rich will be richer and poorer. When the Social Democrats first introduced the Law on the Participation of Workers in Profit two years ago, the government rejected it with disgust. Now the Prime Minister boasts that the government will file it itself. He finally realized that our country is also workers and workers, whose capital has denied them the right to a share of the profits created in the busy work by them for 16 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u303	Thank you. As I note the interest in explanation of vote, I am opening up the possibility of re-appealing for all those who have not yet explained your vote. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u304	Thank you for your word. The vote on the Government's trust is tied exclusively to one point, which is during the Presidency of the European Union. As has been said in 2004 in this National Assembly, we supported the initiative of Slovenia to chair and, in fact, today, this debate is extremely important when some governments that check support for the presidency reject this support. I think that there is no country, no policy that could afford such a diametric plant as will happen in this case, that those who have proposed that the National Assembly support the Presidency of the European Union will today vote against the Government obtaining this agreement and doing this work successfully and appropriately. When the President of the Government offered, in one of the cases before the day, that someone else would take the lead, even further, the former ministers in fact turned out to be completely out of shape, that the coach was acting completely confused. And now all those of you on this team who denies the government's support are declared a jewel, a gem of democracy. I hope that this gem will remain the same, in the same composition in the coming term. However, with regard to poverty and other matters, given the situation that prevails between this large pool club, which are members of the LDS and SD Forum and most union leaders, it is the easiest thing to do just below [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u305	Thank you. Mr. Yellen.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u306	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. President of the government with the team! I give my vote in support of the Government by justifying good economic results at the time of the Government's leadership, by justifying the adoption of the Law on the Twice Yearly Coordination of Pensions, which we managed to make through this Parliament, due to the increased employment of our citizens and citizens, for the support given to us by the party's executive board yesterday. Because we want to achieve more under this government. I would like to add much more to the law, which would also bring our pensioners two-year coordination of public transfers, through which the social situation of pensioners could be improved. I will also vote in favour of the nearly EU Presidency and of the established young Slovenian countries at home, in the EU and in the world at that time. Once again, I will vote in favour of the government of Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u307	Thank you. Mr. Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u308	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Mr President, the Government is with its co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament. I will support the Government's confidence because this coalition and this government have largely fulfilled all commitments under the coalition treaty. But I will also support this because of successful tax reform. I think that a successful tax reform is the reason that we have had great economic growth, favourable economic conditions and also large exports. I will also support the substantial improvement in the attitude of this Government towards local communities and also to the financing of municipalities. I will also support this because, with accelerated investment in infrastructure, this Government has made a significant contribution to improving the conditions for coherent regional development. I will also support this because the revenue and expenditure in the field of public finances are falling and because they are as low as they have ever been. In the end, I would like to say, there was also a lot of talk about pensions. I agree that pensions are not the highest, that it would be good to be higher, but I will remind you of discussions that were not so long ago about the sustainability of the pension register. I'm telling you, any other government would be even lower today, because the sustainability of the pension fund means lowering pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u309	Thank you. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u310	Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! When we talk about the mucking of our country in the international public, we cannot talk about small or insignificant issues. So much less when it comes to lies. For this reason, from today's strategy in the leading part of the opposition, and especially from the Social Democrats and the Party of Zares, who signed an agreement on participation in the Presidency, after the President of the Government has announced that the trustee is primarily tied to this point, it would be said that there is a little more judgment to be expected from the unity or support of Slovenia's Presidency of the European Union. At the time of the intervention, the opposition announced that the Government does not support you, but we have heard that it is not ready to take responsibility, despite its pre-imposed assurance that it will have the support of the current Prime Minister of the Government, in so far as it decides to do so. So the opposition says the government is bad, so let it rule. But it's not like that. Over the last period, we have successfully taken over the euro, we have the lowest unemployment rate. As regards the threshold of poverty in the European Union, only the Netherlands is in a better position than Slovenia. And in a month we will be chairing the European Union. This country, the Republic of Slovenia, not the Government, will chair the European Union in a month. That is why, in my opinion, the country's perversion is even more perverse because of things that do not seem to be happening. Surely not all things in this country are ideal, and people face many problems as well. However, among these problems there are certainly no Roma and not deleted, as much as was done for their position under this authority has not been under any authority before. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If I did not have a responsibility to my own country and to the people who entrusted me with the mandate in the vote, then in these circumstances, the current opposition would gladly leave the possibility to represent a country before Europe which, without any arguments, has been able to tarnish in recent months.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u311	Thank you. Is there any interest in the explanation of the voice? I'm opening applications. Mr. Sculpture, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After all the things we've heard here, I'm worried, no matter what the Prime Minister promises, that he won't draw any consequences against those who are slandering the country, that coalition MPs continue to drag on and incriminate people who are just saying what they're saying around the world. The second thing I'm worried about is trying to say in this transmission that everything is good now and that everything was bad before, but we're used to it. But it's not nice that this is also done for journalists and their housing companies. It was said here that no one stood up for our colleague Friday. Mr. Janša, of course that's not true. Housing companies wrote a petition, organised an investigation, alarmed the international public, exerted pressure on Members. And we acted as we could. Today you're trying to make it easier for them to take back their legitimacy. It's not worth the Prime Minister's performance. And I will also vote against this because you are crying that it is not possible to have a debate on interpretation, because the Rules of Procedure prevent this. Mr. Cuckoo knows that's not true. In a similar situation, Mr Janša faced the Prime Minister Drnovšk 14 times a year ago. So let's take some documentation into our hands, see what someone's been doing, they can't love their country, they can't love who's lying to themselves and to others.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u313	Thank you. Mr Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u314	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. President of the Government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! There's been a lot of talk here tonight in this hall. I think we can figure out that almost everything has been said, but we haven't all spoken yet. But the fact is also that very few colleagues have heard the two-time proposal of the Prime Minister Janez Janša, who made it very clear from this speech that he wants support for the presidency, for the Presidency project and that the results of this vote will not be interpreted differently than just for the Presidency. So, I, like my colleagues, will support the government, not just because of the proposal, but because of everything that's been said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u315	Thank you. It seems that there is no longer interest or everyone you wanted to explain your voice, so I am concluding the stage of explanation of vote. Once again, I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 117 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, if a majority of all Members and Members vote for it, that is 46 or more. We're voting. The vote on the confidant is ongoing. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 33. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 33.]] I find that the confidant of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been voted on. The government has received the support of most of the votes of all Members and Members. Does the Prime Minister want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u316	Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, my thanks to those who voted in favour of the confidant. Thank you also to those who have not voted against but abstained, I think this is also an important signal. Thank you, too, for the message of some opposition parties, which read: The government is as bad as possible, but let the government rule. We will also draw lessons from this message. Unfortunately, a very clear message has been repeated here several times that the confidant is not bound to the coalition, that it is not bound to the coalition contract, but that it is linked to a key project that is not currently before the country, has not been adopted or heard or has not been understood by the four opposition parties. I'm disappointed in that. I also note that the agreement, which was signed on 17 May this year, has now remained formally only a dead letter on paper. The government and the government coalition apparently remain more or less alone in this project. Even now, despite the offer, there is obviously no one who would like to help or want to replace the coalition. There was no such offer here. Nevertheless, and despite such a position, despite such a formal vote, the offers that have been made here on my part in terms of constructive cooperation remain, but the effects of this measure will be measured on the basis of actions not on the basis of agreements that obviously hold nothing even if they are signed. The government will pay particular attention to the well-being of citizens and citizens of this country in this National Assembly, in addition to the responsible completion of preparations for the leadership of the European Union and to the responsible implementation of this project, in particular to the well-being of citizens and citizens of this country with reforms that have been carried out in the first half of this mandate, there has been a manoeuvre to raise the general well-being in Slovenia, not only those who have shares in the stock market, the value of these shares has been substantially raised in this mandate, not only those who have become profitable in the time of the Slovenian transition on the basis of the fruits that have been made independent, and for whom some people here now accuse me and those who have led this project that we have become rich in arms trade, there is still a report, no government, and for which there have been large volumes of Demos and for which some people here are now accusing me and those who have been the best share of the militias of the Social Democrats in 16 years. There, dear fellows, look for this money. I don't have it. The correction report was issued at the end of the mandate and no politically sponsored book, which is somewhere on the bench here, cannot deny it, no investigation and many of them have done so. I don't think that's gonna make anyone feel any better, but taking a little break these months with these absurd accusations is also hurting the state. So the government will pay particular attention to the second phase of privatisation. Some of these processes are now taking place in a way that we will try to ensure the greatest possible benefit to Slovenian citizens and citizens. The government will strengthen the fight against tycoon-political links, which continue to distribute hunters throughout the national fabric with criminal acts and to be affrontlessly rich. There are no such names in the types of government coalition. Look for them on your own. The government will pay particular attention to the regional division of Slovenia in a way that will enable not only the most equitable and equitable development of this country, but also allow for the overall rapid development of all. The main topic or the basic problem that has led me to propose a vote on a confidential one - I thank you once again for your support - although it is not formally resolved. I am disappointed that none of the opposition's colleagues and colleagues have managed to prevent the country's profanity abroad, not only in the European Union, but also in the headlines around the world, not only went to a wider family, which unfortunately strengthens me in the belief that these actions are not only indirectly politically sponsored, but are also politically organised and it is sad. That's sad. I hope that this debate, however, has contributed to a slightly smaller export of lies abroad. I hope so much. If this does not happen, the same options as last Tuesday are available. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-19-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u317	Thank you, Prime Minister, and I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you for participating.
