ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u1	Dear Members and fellow Members! I propose that we begin the meeting of the National Assembly on the 28th meeting. I am informed and I inform you that today's meetings cannot be attended by the next Member and Members, and before that I ask you to take your seats. Thank you. Mag. Janez Drobnič, Mr. Marjan Drofenik, Mr. Franc [[Ferry]] Horvat, Bojan Kontič, Drag Koren, Martin Mikolič since 13 p.m., Dr. Marko Pavliha, Mrs. Maria Possonec, Dr. Mitja Slavinec and Villa Trophynik. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the revision of public procurement procedures. The law is being dealt with by an emergency procedure. We've got five hours and five minutes to deal with. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Let me briefly present the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the revision of public procurement procedures. Let me begin by stressing, as you all know, the field of public procurement in Slovenian legislation is specifically governed by three laws: the Public Procurement Act, which lays down the rules, the procurement of contracting entities in the public sector, then the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and Postal Services, which lays down the rules for public procurement in those sectors, and the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures, which regulates legal protection in public procurement. With the first two laws listed, we have revised the legislation governing the implementation of public procurement. These two laws have been in force since 7 January of this year. Of course, this new legislation means aligning with the European directives in force in this area, while also removing administrative barriers. In doing so, let me point out that the concept of formal error in the offer is introduced here, which is a mistake which does not affect the competitive capacity of the tenderer and its classification among other offers. Such an error is not the reason for the award of an offer, but the contracting authority may correct it by supplementing the offer. For that reason, it will not be possible for such an error to succeed in the process of reviewing the procurement procedure. A further contribution to improving the implementation of public procurement procedures is the proposed law, which is before you today, amending the Public Procurement Audit Act and which has been submitted by the Government for consideration under an urgent procedure. The subject matter touches on three issues, namely the restrictions on the Institute for the cessation of the procurement procedure for the purpose of submitting an audit application. Secondly, the amounts of the fee in relation to the thresholds for public procurement. Thirdly, the reimbursement of the costs of proceedings to the State Audit Commission by the complainant where the application is rejected as unfounded. Now I'd like to add some statistics. The 2006 State Audit Commission report shows that this year, 640 applications have been resolved in 2006. This is 143 applications more than last year, in 2005, when such claims were submitted 497. This means that, in fact, the number of cases increased by about 29%. The increase in audit requests also indicates that the number of audit requests received by the Ministry of Finance in the copy was 624 in 2005 and 808 in 2006 which again shows an approximately 30% increase in these requests. More information on the number of public procurements. The number of public contracts awarded is also increasing steadily. In 2005, such contracts were 12,102, and in 2006, the data collected now indicate 14,142 public contracts, representing a 16% increase. This is said to indicate a significantly higher trend in the number of audit requests, which is not related to the increase in the number of audit requests resolved. The higher level of the complaint is accompanied by the fact that the audit application lodged results in the automatic cessation of the procurement procedure, irrespective of the stage of the procedure at which it is submitted. That is to say, the suspension of the procedure for the audit application lodged does not only mean that the contracting authority cannot award the contract and go into its execution, but also means that it must not carry out any activities in the procurement process. Consequently, it must not explain to the tenderers concerning the tender documentation, it must not open tenders, it must not review the tenders received, although such activities do not affect the position of the complainant or other tenderers and have no direct impact on the appeal procedure. In cases where the complaint is rejected as unfounded, this means a significant loss of time for the contracting authority. Therefore, the contracting authority must, under the applicable law, in any event request the State Audit Commission to enable it to continue to carry out the procedure or to carry out the individual acts already mentioned in the procedure. In particular, I would like to point out that the proposal for a law before you today follows the regulation resulting from the directives in force in the field of legal protection and is in force in the majority of the members of the European Union. I would point out that 22 EU Member States do not have an illegal so-called principle of suspension. Only four countries have a suspension at the first stage of the appeal procedure. In particular, I would like to point out that the proposed legislative proposal does not eliminate the effect of suspension but limits itself to the conclusion of the contract. This means that the audit application lodged does not, as a rule, suspend the procedure for the execution of the contract and that it is prohibited to conclude the contract before the completion of the audit procedure. Thus, legal protection remains as high as the current regime allows. The draft law lays down the procurement procedure, it is said that the procurement procedure is under way at the same time as the audit procedure and thus benefits the contracting authority, as it can continue to carry out the procurement procedure and, in the event of a favourable resolution of the audit procedure, thus obtains it in time. In spite of the general rule that the application lodged does not deter the procurement procedure, the proposal to suspend the application for review may also be decided by the applicant for the audit and its request by the State Audit Commission, taking into account the relationship between the adverse consequences of the delay in the award of the contract procedure and the benefits for all who might be injured and the public interest in the execution of the procurement procedure. The law as an extreme possibility - and here I would like to stress, as an extreme possibility - allows the conclusion of the contract even before the completion of the audit procedure. The proposal may be made by the contracting authority. The request shall be decided by the State Audit Commission, which shall take into account the relationship between the harmful consequences of the conclusion of the contract and the benefits for all who might be injured and the public interest in concluding the contract. The legislative proposal also explicitly lays down a time limit within which an application for a review may be made relating to the content of the publication or to the tender documentation. In particular, the purpose of such an arrangement is to ensure that public procurement is implemented as quickly as possible and to remedy errors as possible, only in this way can it be ensured that tenderers submit any audit requests as soon as possible after they have been informed of the infringements and thus enable the ongoing implementation of the public procurement by way of remedying errors. A few words more about some of the other changes that this proposal brings before you today. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Law on the revision of public procurement procedures also provides for an increase in the fee in the audit process. The purpose of the increase in fees is to ensure that tenderers submit audit requests only in justified cases and not simply for the purpose of delaying the procedure. The amount of the fee depends on whether a public contract is required in relation to the estimated value to be published on the public procurement portal or whether the publication will also need to be sent to the official publication portal of the European Communities. This means that it is lower than the value of the contracts - this fee. The law also includes a provision under which the applicant has to apply for an audit if the audit application is not justified, to reimburse the costs incurred by the audit. In such a case, if the audit application is decided by the State Audit Commission, the applicant shall pay an additional amount of the fee already paid as a compensation for the costs of the audit procedure to the State Commission. So much for the introduction of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Commission for the supervision of the budget and other public finances as the parent working body. I ask the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Bredo Pecan, to report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It's a nice day for everyone who's in the hall today. Even others if they come later to vote on this law. At the 13th urgent meeting held on 24 and 29 May this year, the Commission for Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the revision of procurement procedures in an urgent procedure submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The College has identified that the law is being dealt with by emergency procedure, and the members of the Commission have received as material all that is necessary for us to be able to deal with the law. However, several comments were made in the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the basis of which the three parliamentary groups, SDS, NSI and the People's Party tabled amendments, which were not only editorial but were amended by law in a substantive sense. In an additional explanation, the representative of the Ministry of Finance or the Government specifically pointed out that in the law there are two essential novelties, namely the abolition of automatic suspension, the additional novelty, as we have already heard, is also that the suspension of suspension is extended to the conclusion of the contract if the contracting authority finds that this is absolutely necessary and that the State Audit Commission should attach such a proposal to it. However, the news is that the deadline for submitting an application for review to the tender documentation is only 10 days from the publication of the notice of invitation to tender or the availability of the tender documentation. They're increasing, as we just heard, even in two parts. Fees to be paid immediately upon the submission of the audit and then a fee to compensate for the costs which are still at the additional one-time amount of the basic fee when the State Audit Board finds that the audit request has been unjustified. All the panel members present and the majority of those invited participated in the debate. We also invited representatives of the State Audit Commission, because we felt that we should have heard their opinion on these changes, given that the State Audit Commission, in its annual report, made a number of proposals for the completion or improvement of the Law on the revision of public procurement procedures and that the proposal for this Act did not cover these comments and proposals of the State Audit Commission. The amendments were tabled, namely the opposition, Mr Milan M. Cwickl, as representative of the Social Democrats, tabled the amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 4. All three were rejected. While the representatives of SDS, NSI and SLS, as it is said, tabled amendments to Articles 1 and 2 and both amendments were adopted after a preliminary correction. Article 3 was also adopted, all the articles were then confirmed and you now have a proposal for a law on the bench, which is proposed by the Commission for consideration and adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u5	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SD Group will be presented by mag. Milan M. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u6	Good day to you all! Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The Group of Social Democrats will not support the proposal for a law amending the law on the revision of public procurement procedures because the interest of all taxpayers is higher than that of some individuals who will be able to increase customerism and corruption through this law. Let me explain this to you. First of all, thank the Ministry of Finance for explaining the increase in the number of applications and public procurement. In 2005, the State Audit Commission received a total of twelve thousand and so many public contracts, 493 applications or 4.1%. Each 25 public procurement took a corrective test before the State Audit Commission. And in 2006, that was 4.2%, still almost every 24. What is the result of having legal protection in Slovenia provided by the State Audit Commission and justified by Article 11 of the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures? Legal protection says, "When someone - and every 25 public order has someone who feels cheated - complain immediately. This is why we have the competition of the tenderers. This competition is reflected in the reduction in contract prices according to the value of the contract. Data from the Ministry of Finance show that between 2000 and 2005 the average reduction in public procurement prices was 20%, and in Slovenia we have two billion euro of public procurement each year. 20% per two billion is €400 million, €400 million is savings for Slovenian taxpayers because suppliers believe they have legal protection because we have the automatic suspension that Germany has, like a number of other countries, where there is no suspension and there are functioning courts. And we're putting this on the ground today so that some of the contracting authorities will get the vendors. Mr. Janez Janša wants to open the Shentvid-Kosese tunnel before the next election. That's what the explanation of the law says. Following the 11th and 11th articles proposed, new, this tunnel will be opened because Dars will be able to enter into an electrical installation business in this tunnel despite complaints from contracting authorities who will not be given a job. Of course, this business will be suitable for holding, of course there will be a lot of customerism and corruption in this business, as we have seen at the Paediatric Clinic and elsewhere, more in the debate. For this, €400 million of annual savings are sacrificed. With 17,000 years of public procurement, there will be no more automatic suspension. The automatic suspension will be at the discretion of the contracting authority, at the will of the Government; it is no longer a legal state. For 10 years automatic suspension was in force in Slovenia, for 10 years we had 400 million euros in savings, now it will not be. In 2006, we made a significant small change in the Law on the Revision of the Public Procurement Procedure. We said: when it comes to life and death, there is no suspension. What happened? The operating tables have been purchased to lower the oil. No savings, a lot of clientism, a lot of corruption. This is the content of the law that you are changing today following an emergency procedure. We have proposed amendments, if you accept them, we will at least fix the law a little bit if you do not accept them, Mr Janez Janša will open the tunnel in Shentvid before the next elections, but you will lose 400 million euros on an annual basis, this is too much for one tunnel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u7	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! I must say in the introduction that the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia strongly supports the amendment of this law. I don't mind if Mr Janez Janša opens the tunnel, I don't want to wait in Šiška in the column anymore, but I want to continue my journey towards the centre or to the Postojna, and I am sure that so also the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes. The law, which does not solve the problem for which it was adopted, was a bad marriage, and this law is being scrupulously corrected today. What helps us if we have saved one euro of taxpayer money and we have therefore spent 100 euros - we have not saved anything. As a young and new mayor, I face this particular problem in the congregation. We have €18 million of European taxpayer money at our disposal, but we have already dropped our third call last week because someone who is neither a builder nor an investor is complaining only because his material has not been selected. The first time someone complained because his pipe was not selected, the second time he ordered a competing company to complain because the seal was wrong, the third time he had the opportunity to complain because he did not like the color. In all three procedures, the State Audit Commission has given us no comment. With this, we have already had 10,000 euros in costs, and since the construction contract and signature will be retained for at least one year, this means that construction services will be auctioned in the case of our congregation for 30 million. End of words! The story of the operating tables is, of course, exactly that kind of story, but this story could be solved, not politically, but practically, even in Butalas. It is therefore right that this suspension effect, which could also be referred to as postponement or postponement in Slovenia, should be abolished, that the State Audit Commission should be able to open contracts and that the story goes forward. However, the work of construction operations cannot be initiated before the State Audit Commission examines the matter. Only then can you start a construction campaign, and the possibility of excluding any corruption or customerism remains in this story. Now, in order to achieve the ultimate goal, we cannot even take those first basic steps. In the view of the Liberal Democracy Club, the proposal for a solution is appropriate because, when carrying out the audit procedure, it can be ensured and allows for the simultaneous implementation of the procurement procedure pending the conclusion of the contract. As a result, all contracting entities will acquire time, in particular in cases where the request for review is rejected as unfounded or the validity of the application will only be partial. Such a solution is undoubtedly necessary because, for example, the figures for 2006 show that the total number of applications received has been rising sharply since 2005 because, according to 2004 in 2006, this complaint increased by 70%. Of the 640 audit applications received in 2006, a total of 45 % of these applications were rejected. It also seems appropriate to us that if the audit application is not justified, the applicant must therefore reimburse the contracting authority for the costs incurred by the audit. If we asked our club and took into account, we would increase these so-called criminal provisions so that those who complain would consider honestly what to do and what to do. Reimbursement of the cost of a tax of 5,000 for construction and 2,500 for goods and services is compared to the value of the contracts, as is said to be a "little snack" because in public procurement large profits of the contractors of public contracts are being paid. I'm not going to read what the experts are writing to me anymore. It is justified, you may have read it in others, but I will tell you an example from practice. When I asked one of the complainants why they were always complaining, there were a lot of builders, he said to me, "This moment is a lot of work in Slovenia. Mayor, there's something you need to keep for the year that's coming." But we, those of us who don't have water, we don't have an orderly sewerage, we don't agree to that logic and we can't wait. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Cyril Testen will give his position to the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! Members of New Slovenia are committed to making public procurement more transparent. For this reason, we have supported new public procurement laws, as well as amendments to the law on the revision of the procurement procedure last year. We have already stressed that only legislation cannot solve all the problems that arise in the field of public procurement. We are aware that public procurement is a great business opportunity for all tenderers and some are willing to do everything to obtain the contract. The retention of procedures, which often turns out to be unfounded, causes damage to such contracting authorities, and consequently I am to us. Let me remind you, for example, of the construction of highways in Pomour or right now an actual case in Shentvid. As in other areas, we also want a transparent regulation in the New Slovenia Group in the revision of public procurement procedures, so we expect a new law that will fully regulate this area. Until then, we support the Government's efforts to limit the practice of irresponsible complaints by amending the law and to prevent the deliberate retention of procurement procedures. In the New Slovenia Group for this reason, we welcome the decision not to delay the implementation of the procurement procedure due to the submission of the audit request, but not to conclude contracts before the decision of the State Audit Commission. This does not affect the decisions of the State Audit Commission but significantly reduces procurement procedures. The final decision of the State Audit Commission is therefore not prejudiced and the legal certainty of the tenderers is not jeopardised. We agree that there is a need to ensure the legal security of tenderers as regulated in the EU. The proposal for amendments also provides that the applicant may propose to the State Audit Commission to suspend the contracting authority’s procedure in whole or in part. In this way, additional legal certainty is guaranteed to tenderers. At the request and at the written justification of the contracting authority, the State Audit Commission may decide to allow the conclusion of the contract, despite the audit request submitted. When deciding, the Commission must take into account or assess the adverse effects on all those who might be injured and the public interest in the execution of the contract. In the light of the above, the State Audit Commission shall act on its own initiative and thus remain fully independent. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that the amendment of the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures is also necessary because of the more rational implementation of investments at both local and national levels. The implementation of investments financed by the European Union funds has often been compromised by the implementation of the Public Procurement Audit Act. In the past, the delay in the procedure also made it questionable to draw funds from the European funds in a timely manner. As a result of these solutions, we will support the draft law in the New Slovenia Group, but we do not favour solutions that protect applicants for review of procedures more than the usual practice in the European Union. We therefore also support the proposal that an applicant for an audit which appears to be unfounded should reimburse the contracting authority for the costs incurred by the audit and compensation for the costs of the procedure to the State Audit Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will give his position to the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u12	Dear Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Members will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act. The proposed amendments aim to shorten procurement procedures despite the submission of audit requests. The continuation of the procurement procedure will be possible, but it will not be possible to conclude the contract before the audit request is resolved, except in exceptional cases, as decided by the State Audit Commission. In particular, such a decision should limit the number of less substantiated or poorly substantiated audit requests, since the amendment of the law on the one hand increases the fees when the application is lodged and, on the other hand, the reimbursement of costs or damages to the contracting authority if they were caused by the applicant’s fault of the audit application. The proposal thus enhances the legal security of the contracting authority and does not reduce it for the tenderers. In our view, with a consistent respect for public interest, the law will, despite some concerns, make it possible to shorten the time for the award of public contracts and thereby to carry out the planned transactions or projects of the contracting authority in a timely manner. For these reasons, the DeSUS Group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u13	Thank you. I invite Ambassador Kristian Janca to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Chairman. Honourable Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. I think this is a matter, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the audit procedure of public procurement - I would say domestically, thank God that is on the tables of the National Assembly, lately. And under discussion, the colleague of the mayor and Member of the Sajiovic would also sign the "comet" below. These are key problems for Slovenia, key to huge public funds, which unfortunately have been happening for years because of the online procurement events and in the context of the complaint by major players in the construction market. And I have a bad experience because I haven't signed an 11 million-euro contract in almost four years because big players can't agree on who gets this deal. Therefore, I thank the Ministry that perhaps, through the web of our many comments that we have sent to various ministries, I hope that it has also been possible because of our encouragement, this story in the National Assembly, to urgently correct the nonsense that has taken place at this time under the old law. The latest amendment to the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures was adopted in the National Assembly less than a year ago. It was a short novel, which dealt with the same subject as the proposed amendment to the law today. The last amendment introduced a new Article 11a, which provided for the possibility of the State Audit Commission to provide, on a proposal from the contracting authority, that, following the prior agreement of the Government, in cases where life, human health, could be at risk, the proposed audit request should not prevent the awarding of a public contract. The amendment was proposed and adopted in the middle of a specific case of buying operating tables, which, due to the ongoing audit procedures, has dragged on unreasonablely for a long time and, in the opinion of doctors, has seriously jeopardized the health and life of people. In the Slovenian People's Party, we supported the amendment at that time for the sake of life and health as the greatest values of our citizens. Today's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures generally addresses the problem of the suspension of the audit application submitted. Under the current legislation, suspension requires revision only in exceptional cases. The main problem with public procurement in the light of the requests submitted for review of procedures is that tenderers or those who have failed in the procurement process make it impossible for the contracting authority to continue carrying out the acts necessary to conclude the contract of public procurement. In particular, in more complex contracts, contracting authorities may not continue the longer period of time, resulting in significant damage. In some cases, the work of the contracting authorities in relation to the individual contract is blocked for several months, not more than months - for several years. The fact is that at least most of the applicant's audit applications do not cause any damage prior to the conclusion of a contract with the selected contractor. From this point of view, it is possible to defend the arrangements under which the review procedure for the contracting authority must prohibit the conclusion of the contract and other procedures may nevertheless be implemented until the conclusion of the contract. And this is also the main purpose of the proposed law or novel. The proposal thus contributes in particular to the rationalisation of procurement procedures and allows the contracting authority to carry out pre-contractual activities with the selected contractor also during the audit procedure. It also provides for an exceptional possibility to conclude a contract before the completion of the audit procedure, as decided by the State Audit Commission. In doing so, it is necessary to take into account the relationship between the harmful consequences of detention, the benefits for all who might be harmed and the public interest. In doing so, it should be stressed that this solution imposes additional responsibility on the audit committee, while also extending the space for pressure on the members of the audit committee. The proposed solution, in our view, will also constitute a great responsibility for the contracting authority when it decides to postpone the proposal for a contract before the final audit procedure. In the event that the appeal to the audit procedure is later concluded to the complainant in favour, high costs will arise for the contracting authority. For this reason, we believe that this will be useful only in exceptional cases. It is true, however, that there is a certain fear that a proposal would be made for other reasons, but it will have to be decided by the State Audit Commission, which will also obtain the opinion of the other participants in a particular procedure, in particular the applicant for the audit request. We believe that the proposed novelty in this part brings a completely new concept of work, which will be more difficult for the audit committee, while at the same time allowing rational procurement procedures. However, with clearly defined deadlines and increased fees, it is likely that requests for revision will also be reduced and will be submitted only in those cases and, of course, also because of the possibility to say so, to the selected operator. There are many cases where a request for review occurs mainly because the complainant wants to obstruct procedures or another contractor, and often also his direct competitor. More than that, in the debate itself. Of course, we'll be happy to support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Comrade Zvonko Černač will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u16	Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, the rest are present! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment of the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures, but we will not support any of the proposed amendments of the Social Democrats Group, because the adoption of these amendments would bring us back to a state of inappropriate solutions that do not favour the tenderers and, in particular, not the contracting authorities. The Law on the revision of public procurement procedures, as adopted, is intended to follow in particular two fundamental principles. It is primarily intended to ensure the legal protection of tenderers in public procurement procedures and should ensure that the contracting authorities have normal operations and procedures, despite any audit requests that may be submitted. And in most cases these fundamental objectives are also taken into account and respected. In practice, however, as we have heard many times today, there are cases where individual providers of legislative provisions are using for some other purpose. This is not good, this is bad, and such a scratch has to be removed. The right to legal protection is born this way and there is an abuse of the Institute of Audit for cartel negotiations, resulting in an increase in tenders, an extension of the time limits for the execution of the contract. This certainly was not the intention of the legislator, nor was it when the law was passed nor was it intended to do so, I am firmly convinced today, especially since we have adopted a new law on public procurement in the past year. The public procurement laws that have been in force since 7 January this year have made it possible to improve the equality of tenderers, greater transparency and, above all, greater competition. Let me say here that there is certainly no link, proven no, no causal link between the reduction of bid prices and between the law or amendments to the Procurement Procedures Review Act, no link, on the contrary. The specific cases that are taking place in practice say exactly what we have heard today. In view of the fact that the audit request lodged stops all procedures, all further activities in the procurement process, there are cartel arrangements, resulting in an exceptional extension of the procedures, on the one hand the failure of the contracting authorities to carry out planned and planned activities to make use of the public funds and other funds they have planned for the execution of public contracts and, on the other hand, because of such a way and procedures, to increase the price of tenders. These are irrefutable facts that can be demonstrated and documented in any case. The novelty will certainly limit this practice to a certain extent, and it will never be possible to prevent it completely, but I firmly believe that the legal protection of tenderers, those who really pursue the purpose for which such a law is passed, is said to be the remedy for errors in the procedure, will not be jeopardised. The legal protection of these tenderers is still ensured because the novelty says: the proceedings are proceeding; the signing of the contract to a legal decision is not, except in exceptional cases, if so, when weighing what we have heard before, the relationship between harmful consequences and other circumstances and the public benefits for all, the State Audit Commission assesses. We have also witnessed a debate on fees that are supposed to prevent them from increasing in some way, this legal protection. I do not think that this is true; the fees must be such as to prevent the submission of unjustified requests for review and, on the other hand, to allow legal protection to those tenderers who consider that they are injured in these proceedings. And this regulation, which, in the current law, I do not think is following this balance, the novelty follows it, and the proposal that we witnessed at a meeting of the Commission by the Social Democrats, when these charges were to increase enormously to 5% of the value of the award of public contracts, is once again broken down, which is why this could not be supported. In short, if I finish. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the novelty has been welcomed, that it has been a time for its implementation, that it will allow for the normal implementation of audits in all justified cases, that it will protect the interests of contracting authorities and public funds on the other hand, and thus make it possible for public procurement to be carried out rationally. For this reason, we support the novel, and none of the amendments tabled by the Social Democrats' Group have been put back in inappropriate and bad shape. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u17	Thank you, too. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. However, we are moving on to debate and decision-making on the articles and amendments tabled. We have three amendments ahead of us. I now remind you that if the first amendment is adopted, become the second amendment irrelevant. We will discuss and decide on each amendment individually. As it is said, I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. I'm asking you to sign up. We have seven interviewees reported. Member Cyril Testen has the first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! We will not support the SD Group in our parliamentary group of amendments. But we will not support it for the first time, because it is returning to the old form of law, and for the second time, because in our opinion there is a whole lot of untruths in this amendment, in particular from this point of view, because this amendment states that suspension is being abolished. That's not true. Suspension is as possible as it has been so far, so that procurement procedures run until the conclusion of the contract. And the other thing is procedure. The contracting authority may terminate it, even if it finds on the basis of a complaint that there are many irregularities or errors in the order. Third thing. On the basis of the complainant's complaint, the State Audit Commission may also decide to suspend the procedure in part or in whole. This way, we will not support this amendment, but we agree with the conclusion that a much greater responsibility by amending the law is imposed on the State Audit Commission, which will answer or take decisions in the final instance, for which it has not so far had such powers. I would like to comment a little on the idea, which is completely uncontained, that public funds will be wasted poorly so that public funds will be used irrationally. I don't know how the proposaler, Mr Cvikl, came to this conclusion and calculated that in this way we would harm public funds for EUR 400 million. I'd rather say the opposite. By making the procedures faster, we will certainly "spare" because it has been shown that in all those cases where the procurement procedures have lasted a long time and in all those cases where the implementation of the investments itself has stalled, in all those cases the final price has at least doubled. Take a look at the examples of highways; however, you do not have to look only at highways, and other cases are large. I find such a claim unacceptable. However, it would be problematic to accept such an amendment as Mr Squeakl suggested on the Committee. He suggested that costs or charges would be 5%. Do you imagine 10 million euros worth 5% 500,000 euros in investment? That would be the tax that would turn many away from complaining. And it would be that tax that would certainly put a lot of bidders in an unequal position. Here, as an example of bad practice from the past, I might also mention the case of the famous 25th or government palace, about which we have talked a lot. We know how public procurement procedures were conducted in that case. We know that it was later signed, and I think 13 Annexes, which greatly inspired this government palace. Of all these 13 Annexes, I believe that 12 or 11 were signed during the previous government, it is said that most of the incentives go to the previous government. Finally, this government palace remained unfinished, and in the end there were many problems with its contents. Gentlemen from the SD or Mr. proposing these amendments often told us about various things, about the various problems of this government, about low economic growth at the beginning of the mandate, about inflation, about the budget deficit, about public debt - all these figures remained unfulfilled. I'm sure that his claim is also purely out of the vine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u19	Thank you, too. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would say very briefly that I do not agree with this law alone and, of course, I will also vote in favour of the first amendment to the first article, and in so far as we know that it will not be adopted, even for the second. I will also tell you what actually bothers me about the content of this article. It bothers me that the suspension is practically linked to the customer's well-being. I would, as we have heard many specific cases today, even though my group leader has repeatedly taught me that when we adopt laws, we should never look at the law in the context of concrete cases, but we are ordinary people who learn from life, what the law in fact determines or why the law provides something. And I would take here as an example the pediatric clinic itself; not the famous contract between the two private-owned companies, but the public procurement procedure as it was. If the procurement procedure were to be treated in such a way as to include one request for review, then things would probably run completely differently than they did. It is interesting that the tender documentation has been raised, I think 23 potential bidders or stakeholders, that only two offers have been made and that one of these offers included a consortium consisting of, among other things, companies that have raised the tender documentation, is said to have been organised - someone has already used the term "cartel offer" here today. The other thing that is interesting is that the design forecast showed a value of 3 billion 450 million tolars, and in both of these offers were VAT-worthy - this was also VAT-worthy; however, there were 6 billion 890 million - or 790 million - because the numbers are not that important - and 6 billion 450 or 460 million. According to this, almost 100% higher bid than the calculated value, this was the month of February 2006. We know what inflation is like, we know what price increases are, we know that there was no concrete iron in this supply because it was electrical installations and machine installations, it is said, for things that are not directly dependent on global prices, which have actually raised significantly even in the past year the price of construction materials. And in May or April of the month, the tender found that none of the tenderers - for very formal reasons I hope to claim - did not meet the conditions, then in May a decision was taken on the procedure for selecting the tenderer in the negotiated procedure without public publication. And interestingly, the value of the bid in the selected bidder has been disastrously reduced, with VAT it was part of a round of 6 billion tolars. Interesting, isn't it? So when the committee gave a speech on how high this offer was, the talk was that it was a savings of 700 million dollars because the other bidder was staying at his place or almost at his offer, he reduced his price by 50 million tolars. In the six billion 798 million, it reduced by about 50 million or 60 million. What do I mean by that? That the Law on the Revision of the Public Procurement Procedure could not, in fact, prevent such things, but that a number of companies that were otherwise qualified to carry out these works - you need to know that in the list of companies that have raised the documentation, the names of companies that are still quite qualified to carry out these works that have been described, have already been trained and have later deviated from the offer for unknown reasons. They probably didn't have the time, either they didn't have the capacity, or they didn't find the offer interesting. And something else happened in the middle. In the publication of the selection procedure of the tenderer by negotiation without publication, the value of the works has been determined - be careful! The pre-budget value was initially 3 billion 450 million and then suddenly increased to 5 billion tolls with VAT. From February to May, when this second procedure was introduced, the price increased, the design value of these works increased by a billion and a half tolar. Three billion and a half billion dollars! Do you have any idea what miraculous things were happening at that time, March, April, May, the bad three months was the difference of billions and half of the budget value - it grew. What am I trying to say? Because of the cartel agreement and because we are further enabling such procedures in the Procurement Review Act in Slovenia, we will be increasingly and more affected by the suspension, due to the suspension, I will say, the implementation of the public procurement procedure will continue to happen to us and the Sordina operating tables will happen again and again. There the procedure was carried out in accordance with Article 11a, the only procedure that changed the law last year, and there was no such procedure. So, the government and the coalition have found that the real reason for endangering people's lives and human security is indeed necessary - as one of the members of the commission has pointed out to me, that I am using "buttash and scarves drawn arguments", and that is why I have no excuses - "buttash and scarves extracted arguments" - because of this, of course, because the government has found that this is not possible in such cases, because it must be a disaster that it must be found that people's life and health is at risk. Now it's probably a real threat because patients can fall down from these sardines - it's very interesting! And for this reason, I believe that the procedure without suspension is actually a very risky decision. I think the next year, when the government is led by some other political option, by colleagues from SDS and NSIs from elsewhere, you will talk a lot about how public procurements with corruption, clientism and so on are implemented, based on the law that you will adopt today!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Member Bogomir Zámernik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is very interesting to hear both the postponements of the groups of Members and the presentations of individual Members. It is obvious that all of us at some level, perhaps even in the congregation, have already met with public orders and that we have a lot of experience, each in our own field. So much more interesting, because obviously now the Development Partnership with some of the transitions is moving to the other side, where the rest is left. Because the representative of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is very, I would say, a real and wise assessment of the situation, which, of course, I very much agree with. As I said before, we all have experience, probably even a forerunner, with public contracts. And interestingly enough, when the previous legislation allowed for such manipulation, the order, as it was said, with 3 billion and a half billion, and the previous legislation, which had not been amended, was fine. Then the representative of the same parliamentary group calculates that if we change this, we will try to make this impossible, but we will save EUR 400 million annually in all public procurements that should be somewhere between 12 and 14 000. If we divide 400 million from 12 to 14 thousand, we get about 30,000 euros on a public order, according to their own. That's not what I'm saying. 60 000 euros on each public contract can definitely be saved if we listen to the Pre-Prime Minister, even more so if we prevent what is now happening - cartel negotiation, precisely because of the possibility that, as has been said, someone can complain to unconsciousness. Now I'm going to give you an example. Companies C and S, let's say they called themselves cartels, agreed to sign up for a public tender because they didn't expect company V to sign up. Since company V applied with a 100 million lower price, there was a "fire in the roof". Now, however, we will complain for so long that there will then be such a difference as Mrs Pečanova has been talking about. But fortunately or unfortunately, they found it to be such a small number, even though we're talking about a cca number. 500 million dollars at the time, but it was so small for them that they were not paid to complain about the disability. 'Cause it was about the chained trade again. They said O. K., we will leave you there, gentlemen from V, but if we happen to be here where this is, I don't know, 10 times the previous number, you won't sign up for the invitation, if you don't, we'll complain to you about disability. And of course, company V had to let go. And I am therefore convinced that by allowing them to complain about disability, I am convinced that citizens and citizens of Slovenia will be much more satisfied. Therefore, such an amendment, which wishes to preserve this situation, and I wonder why some who have been on the brink of public procurement for ten years insist so stubbornly that such things, such an anomaly as were previously said on their part, continue to be allowed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u23	Thank you, too. It's a replica, a colleague of mine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u24	I would ask a colleague if he targeted me personally or any of the Social Democrats with the notion that "were ten years..." [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Allow me just a little bit-- Yeah, great, now you've confirmed what you said. [[...]] [[...]] To the extent [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Mr President, please, if you would like to warn your fellow Ambassador that this is not what he is doing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u25	Excuse me. Proceed. You're the only one who has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u26	I would ask, Mr Vice-President, that you ask the Ambassador to expressly declare that what he has said does not apply to members of the Group of Social Democrats. But if he thinks it's relevant, let him prove it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u27	Thank you. I believe your colleague the Viceroy has heard you. We will continue the debate. Member Srečko Hvauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I also announce that I will not support this amendment: because it is bad because it restores the content of the law at a time when some have abused this institution of complaint and has proved to be bad in practice. In explanation, the proposer of this amendment cites certain things that I absolutely cannot agree with. First of all, the current legislation has produced good results. Now, for whom she has given good results, perhaps this should be explained - for the country, for the local community certainly not! Perhaps for some who were at the trough who used it with favour, but this was not good for Slovenian taxpayers and taxpayers. It would be difficult for the services to be encouraged to do so. I'd argue otherwise! The current law, not only allowed cartel bargaining, but actually encouraged even some sort of incentive, forcing them to do so. If they wanted to be successful in this public procurement market, they had to be negotiated. One business related to another, which was described beautifully by Comrade Zammernik. Such an arrangement only leads to a higher price, not to a lower price. Where someone behind their back, behind their backs, somewhere hidden, there's an increase in prices. The number 400 million, I've been listening for quite some time - we're talking about euros so that no one would think we're only talking about 400 million tolars. How did Comrade Squeakl come to this number, why there is no 401 or 398, I don't know, I wouldn't hope to release my modest knowledge into the calculations of these savings. I would suggest to my colleague that, in this profound study of savings, I might take into account some of the other things that I will count. First of all, the damage caused by the fact that the procurement procedures had been carried out for so long. It'll cost you. If a procedure is carried out for one year, two years, even three years, it costs. Costs or money, it also costs us, say, in the area of highways, we can ask ourselves how many human lives have been lost because some procedures have run for so long. How much environmental pollution costs us, because individual municipalities, local communities, have not been able to build sewerage for several years. How much is the quality of people's lives, say, in Pomurje or anywhere where increased traffic essentially pollutes their environment, where vibrations make them tear up walls, where they have to wait half an hour to cross one road? How much does that cost? It's got a price to pay, too. And this amendment to the law will, I think, simply reduce unwarranted complaints to a minimum, so that such an amendment, which would encourage this or that complaint again, will not be supported. When we talk about some damage or some deficit, we might also have to ask how many European funds we lost because the procurement procedures were proposals. How much money? And one more thing. There is a lot of talk about reducing the legal security of subscribers, because procedures can run ahead - but that's not true! Legal certainty is ultimately ensured that the audit committee must give its opinion before signing the contract. However, we might ask ourselves what legal certainty was or is the legal security of those who are not within these cartels, who are some free players and who are in fact entirely dependent on those who agree on a business among themselves, and who are grateful if a small fraction falls on the table for them too. Because of all this amendment of the Social Democrats, whose author is mag. I'm not gonna back you up.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u29	Thank you. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I understand the mayors of parliament, I also understand Members who have ever made a public order, and I also understand those who have now taken the capital to speak as they say. But let me introduce you to why 400 million euros is saved. Take a country that does not have legal protection, which does not have an independent audit commission from the executive authority. There is no difference between the estimated value of the contract and the contract value in that country. My colleague Yuri reminded me that the same thing is in Cyprus, what Popovic says, we're going to make so many public contracts, that's why the contract is concluded. There's no difference! We have about two billion money in Slovenian public finances for public procurement according to the Ministry of Finance reports and two billion is also being spent. Why? Because if there is no legal protection, for these two billion, everyone will also make bids for two billion because they will know who gets the deal. The country where the situation is such is called the Republic of Macedonia. In the area of health, they spend €70 million on medicines, they have the estimated value, and look at it - there are also €70 million in contracts. There is no legal protection there, the appeal body is the government's public procurement complaints commission, and look at it - in Macedonia, unlike Slovenia, where there are about 6 large suppliers for medicines, there are 120 such suppliers. They've divided the deal nicely, there's no competition among them, but everyone gets their share of the deal, and that's exactly how much money is spent, and that's exactly what the bids are like. This is a situation where you do not have competition between tenderers because there is no legal protection because each tenderer knows that there is no point in complaining because everything is politically connected. This is the situation you want in Slovenia. The Federal Republic of Germany is not such a country, in the Federal Republic of Germany, in the proceedings before the Public Procurement Chamber, the suspension of the procurement procedure under the law - explanations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And when we adopted the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement in 1997 and 1998 in the National Assembly, at the time of the rule of the LDS, we made the State Audit Commission, as in accordance with the directives, a judicial body - independent of policy. What does that mean? This means that the tenderers believe in legal certainty. Therefore, gentlemen, according to the Ministry of Finance, in all five years 2001-2005 analysed, it is possible for public procurement to see a significant gap between estimated and contractual value. The contract value shall be offered by the tenderer. Why does the tenderer, as Mr Zammernik said, offer for a 100 million lower price? For the first time because he believes he is capable of doing something instead of 500 for 400 million because he wants to come to the market. And, of course, if you want the freedom to move capital in Slovenia, if you want the freedom of economic initiative, you must give legal protection to those who are prepared for the first, second, third business in order to enter the market, offer a lower price. He, for example, was chosen by the mayor, but the one who offered the higher price complains. The State Audit Commission receives 600 complaints per year, 300 rejects them, 300 accepts them, and in 300 cases it receives a deal that has offered 400 million for the estimated value of 500 million. And this is a reduction, on average, 2001-2005 was a 20% reduction, and in 2005, according to the Ministry of Finance, even 28%. And when you have 2 billion public spending and you end up with legal certainty, then there will be no more bidders to lower prices. And that's what the law stipulates. What does the law provide? The law says that even if the B, which offered 400 million, will be selected for 500 million, and the A will complain, I can proceed. That's "suck." Where's the shit? "But" is that the bidders who are offered, who are offering different prices, know that they no longer have legal protection, so they will have already agreed and all will offer around 500 million, at the level of the estimated value. And when there's no legal protection, there's no price cuts. The philosophy of suspension was introduced in 1997 and represented by finance ministers, Mr Gaspari, Mr Rop, Mr Maramor and is not represented by Mr Bajuk. Now, why do some of the people who have taken over the capital think that this has to be stopped, I'm not going to let that happen? But suspending the suspension is abolishing legal protection. Of course, this is not so problematic in Article 1, since in Article 1 of the proposed law you actually call the applicants so; the suspension is not established; the contracting authority may continue the procedure until the conclusion of the contract. In the meantime, when the contracting authority enters into a contract, the tenderer A and the tenderer B, which were competitive, will find the appropriate agreement and distribute the transaction accordingly, in the detriment of the taxpayers. You have abolished the fundamental element of competition, which is legal protection. And what do you do next? In Article 2 of this Act, which we will talk about, you say: "In reasoned cases, the State Audit Commission may even allow the conclusion of a contract." And that's what's gonna happen. A complaint will be made by someone who has offered a lower price for carrying out electrical installations in the Šentvid tunnel, on a reasoned proposal, the State Audit Commission will decide - I suppose we know why and how this will be done - that even though someone was cheaper, it has that first larger reference, even though the price is higher. And the electrical installation will be more expensive in this tunnel. There'll be no more savings. That's the logic of public procurement. The problem with Slovenia is that capacity is currently overstretched and, of course, the potential price reduction would come only from foreign suppliers. But you took legal protection from foreign bidders, so that's not gonna happen. And that's the risk this law allows. In 2006, you explained a great deal about how suspension is really necessary in the event of life and death. How many cases of life and death, how many times has the Government politically highlighted itself to enforce Article 11a? Only once when it was necessary to rescue Minister Bručan. And we know what the result was: they bought tables that were offered in contrast to the invitation to tender, because, as they say, they're not turning federally, but they're only turning to, as they call it, 90% as if I'm not talking about the details of these tables right now, but they're dropping the oil. And you will now create this situation on full public procurement. I hope you know what you're doing. We propose that this article be deleted, that the suspension be maintained, and alternatively we suggest that you at least eliminate the constitutional anomaly in this Article. However, the constitutional anomaly in this Article is as follows: there is no suspension unless the contracting authority so considers. And imagine one mayor who, to put it simply, gave someone a job and then another complains, there is no suspension, but the mayor can change his mind. Where else is legal certainty here? Look, it's in the law, gentlemen, it's in the third paragraph of Article 1. In the third paragraph of Article 1, you have stated that this is possible. Very interestingly, you wrote, in the third paragraph, that upon receipt of the audit request, the contracting authority may decide that, irrespective of the first paragraph of this Article, the awarding of the contract procedure should be retained until the decision of the State Audit Commission. The contracting authority made a call, two of them offered, one of them chose, one of them complained, one of them complained to the judicial authority of the State Audit Commission. This will not be decided by the State Audit Commission; it will be decided by the contracting authority itself; "kadia sued, kadija sued". This is the situation you create in paragraph 3. You have made a confusion, a confusion that you are taking so far in Article 2, that there will also be contracts and we will have - in the light of the new Public Procurement Act, which is more flexible, which allows negotiations - procedures mainly under the so-called new Article 11.a. The contracting authorities will, in a reasoned manner, propose to the State Audit Commission that the contract may be concluded. However, when the contract is signed when the guarantees are issued, I would like to see a hero who will, of course, be able to cover the costs of repealing such a contract. This is the situation of the Paediatric Clinic: there was a public tender, no one was chosen, they went into negotiations, a member of the Calling Commission said one of them was the commission, this commission was signed in a contract prior to the signing of the Health Minister's contract with these electrical cable operators and a quarter of a million euros were paid. The situation created by the abolition of legal protection is a situation that will multiply cases of clientism and corruption in the situation of the overheated Slovenian economy; and the victim will be very easy, there will be no more savings in public procurement, but we will build less for two billion euros than we could. Taking into account the data of the past four years, 400 million less, but taking into account data for 2005 alone, and even 550 million less goods, the 2 billion-euro service. We are deciding on this today following an emergency procedure, the government has assessed that this is an urgent procedure because it is necessary to open this tunnel in Shentvid at all costs. I do not have a problem with opening a tunnel in Shentvid, but a tunnel that is not more expensive than it would have been in view of rational care for public funds and the principle of good governance. Open tunnels at all costs, and that's what every government can do! And sacrifice EUR 400 million to possibly some of the people who are standing in front of the tunnel in Shentvid today or before entering Celovška today, in saying, "vote for which option I do not know", I think it is not worth this investment and is not worth the abuse of public procurement procedures, as proposed by the amendment of the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures. After ten years, we're going to end legal protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Comrade Bogomir Zamernik applied to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Vice-President, and thank you very much also to the speaker for bringing me up in his 15-minute exposition and thanking him for this deep debate and clarification, which would somehow have been on a shaky foundation if you'd listened to my colleague Pecanovo, because after him, before this change that we're talking about today, everything was in the best order. Before that, there was a possibility of suspension and everything was in order. Things were going as well as they could. His prime minister also opened a viaduct against Primorski before the elections, and this carried him away. Now, if the current Prime Minister looked at the government like that, he should have said, "I will not open this tunnel against Gorensky, because he can take me away." Thank God you don't think like that and try to find out that it won't come to that. And that's the answer I want from you, and you can't give it to me because there's no replica on the replica, but we can talk in the lobby about what it was like, when everything was in the best order, when you were setting up this law, it's possible that there was a price difference from 3 billion to 5. And that's when everything was all right. If you know how to answer me then maybe we'll listen to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u33	Thank you. We continue with our colleague Borut Sajovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, this debate on Article 1 is also possible to agree to some extent, but I must say that we will certainly not support this amendment alone and in the LDS Group. Many times in life is an important time. The proverb also refers to this: Time is money. And here with this suspension, which from now on I will name it nicely in Slovenian, let's say, what the procrastination is about. In cases of numerous investments it is time. Cohesion and European funds will be shut down for many European and Slovenian municipalities from 2009, for some from 2010. And if we're just gonna complain by then, then we're just not gonna build roads or plumbing or sewers. That's what this is about. As far as legal protection is concerned. There is no doubt that the contracting authority must have a choice and the tenderer must have a legal remedy and a complaint. However, in these practical cases, which I have quoted earlier, we have not come to the opening of the offer in one year, but not a builder complains, but a provider of some material that may represent only 10% of the investment or not so much. Now, in one year, we haven't been able to open any offers. However, his legal protection will be without a doubt before the final decision is taken and before bulldozers and buggers arrive on the road - the State Audit Commission, which we trust and we have to trust and make good decisions, will finally be able to say, but this is the case. And that makes it easy for us to buy time, make money, and not lose anything. When, let's say, the audit first fixed us up, we had costs by then - how much? It was necessary to order an expert, to pay the expert to give an opinion, to repeat the invitation to tender in the Official Journal and all of this costs, costs, costs and no effect. Many times we relate to the story of the operating tables, which is most banal. Now, if it is to believe the facts, and I have no reason not to believe them, the operating tables are now bad because the transport was wrong. Because someone overlooked that the box had a PAZI GLASS and wiped the sensitive technique out of the truck. But that was something wrong with the carrier and the one who did it, not the law. These are life cases. We have had a debate before whether or not law should be seen in concrete cases. Of course, a good law should also be seen in concrete cases, and a good law is one that, for the most part, at least the majority, or more than half of the concrete cases are good and a positive solution for people. What does this delay and buying time mean? This also means that construction services are raised by a few percent each year in Slovenia. Today is one of the major news in the media that, say, inflation is like this half-year we haven't had in the last decade. What does that mean in practical terms? Practically means that construction services will be offered to us for millions and millions. I am sure that we will still talk about the law that we are correcting today, but it is essential that we move forward with investments, so we are also buying time by amending this law, but we are not reducing legal certainty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u35	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Commissioner Christian Janz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Chairman, once again. Of course, I do not intend to support this amendment to Article 1, because, as we say, Posavci, "does not drink water". I respect your knowledge of public finances, everything nice and well, and I think you're here at home, but I want you to know that what you say in this article and your debate on this point is that, with this amendment of the law, I don't know, things are exasperating - I'm sorry, no. On the contrary, on the contrary, I will try to explain what this is all about. And I will be happy to invite you to coffee at this point to explain to you, on a practical basis, what the existing law on the audit procedure means, what four years of waiting for one contracting authority, with European money, state money, local money and so on being prepared, but I cannot sign the contract as a contracting authority. Is it in the interest of the state, the congregation, the region, the European money that we still say Slovenia is under-inflicted? He's too little for that kind of stupidity, because he's got such an awkward marriage. And I am grateful, once again, that we have finally come to this amendment proposal, the novelties of this law, that some of the "no water drinkers" that do not go together should be corrected. And you're saying the opposite, with all due respect for your knowledge of public finances, as I said. Firstly, I am afraid that the EUR 10 million of European money we received in 2003 with a financial memorandum for Slovenia will be lost for the Posavska project at the expense of the Municipality of Sevnica because it cannot sign the contract; it is both the Municipality of Sevnica and the Municipality of Brežica and Krško as well as the Posavska project. Who's to blame? No, the mayor didn't do anything. The contracting authority is only one of those who have no legal protection in this case, no legal protection. All legal protection has been provided by suppliers, major players of the Slovenian construction market, who agree many times, but sometimes not, at the expense of one contracting authority and at the expense of certain projects, which are important for every environment of regional importance and which have other important infrastructure at the same time - as you know, there is an power plant in Posav on the lower Sava - and simultaneous construction could be cheaper, economically, rationally and so on. Unfortunately, in this case, this will certainly not happen, since we have been blocked by the selection of the contractor for four years, I repeat. So this is one thing. Second, how much did the congregation have in this case for four years? It's huge! Time is gold, and it's expensive. Procedures, costs, such and otherwise, paying the commissions - we've wasted a lot of money on this because we can't sign the contract yet. And I'm afraid we'll have a few more before we finally sign this contract, because there's still an old law for our case. Secondly, I think that, in fact, by 31.12.2010, the matter must be closed, all the last situations presented, otherwise there will be no European money. Who will be responsible for this, the mayor, the legislator, the government, who? After the new novel, it's the right thing to do, because like now, it's the best thing for everyone. And of course, from your Shentvid, through the Market in Sevnica - I think this thing is really sensitive. I have written at all possible addresses, including the Ministry of Finance and the Government, all together, but it is obvious and right that this audit committee is independent, no one has any influence on it: neither the Ministry of Finance nor the environment, whoever is independent and rightly independent. And now he performs his duties in accordance with the law and the complainants complain to each other. And no argument at all! This morning, I received another response from the audit committee, as unfounded of course, but time runs; months, years run away. And who's in charge of that? I don't think it's in the best interests of you or us or anyone. Maybe in theory what kind of thing is sitting, like you say, in practice then I'll be happy to explain to you how it's going, I've got my chronology written down, and when you read it, you'll be like, "That's not true!" But it's true, it's true! Therefore, please, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, I think that the fundamental reasons that we have listed during this debate today are not just flies, they are not, and they certainly have their weight, arguments and ultimately it is right to look at what kind of practical case, whether it be Shentvid, whether it be the Market or Sevnica. It's also good that some mayor is sitting here in the National Assembly to talk a little bit about what's going on in the space on the ground. Some of you may lose contact with real events in space, in regions, in municipalities. We experience these things daily, and we try to pass it on to the proposer, through the government, what is not valid. And perhaps here we contributed a little bit of this, including the Municipality of Sevnica in the event that this matter took place as it unfolded, and I hope that today it will be accepted that the new contracting authorities and new tenderers will be able to start and complete things more quickly, and still, in my full sense, with full legal protection of security. Full scale. There will still be a possibility of a complaint, but things will get a little shorter. Perhaps only that which you may have proposed to your colleagues in the SD, I myself have proposed, but they have not, I think the lawyers have accepted that the amount of the fee would depend on the project, on the amount of the project. Maybe this. This could even be good if it wasn't the same fee for, I don't know, a million euros or 100 million euros. That would be the difference, but obviously lawyers, the state's legal service has not accepted as a suitable proposal. So this is the only thing that was your initiative to support with you, but I regret to say that it is negative, inappropriate and I regret that you do not support such good things, colleagues, especially you fellow Squeakle, who is most here, in this area, at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u37	Thank you. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u38	My colleague Janc, from 1994 to 2004, we spent 99% of the available 125 billion dollars of money on Phare, Ispa and other Sapard projects in Slovenia. The matter was relatively simple. The single group at the Ministry of Finance, the central financial contractual unit, the single implementation of investments, the good preparation of projects and these projects have been exhausted. Why the government decided to delay the preparation of projects, the distribution of funds first, that's another story. Each project needs to be looked at separately. About what you said, here's what's going on. Data from the State Audit Commission say that within 15 days the State Audit Commission decided 509 out of 603 cases in 2006. And the basic question is, is the 15-day period within which the State Audit Commission decides, too long to give people legal certainty? And, Mr. Janc, in the end, why is suspension by law in Germany on the first degree body? Why? Because they want to protect the competition of the bidders. It's a story. What a project is, however, needs to be looked at very carefully, but because of an individual project it is not possible to change the law. We've got 14,000 public contracts, there were 600 public contracts, 4%, 96% of them went normally, and that's why we're downsizing. And now you will create a situation where two bidders will agree on the end of the deal. Below we propose an amendment to test your political will to maintain equality, even though the Government has decided to put the concept on its head. We'll test it. On the penalties and on what we have proposed, on the other hand, on the continuation of the debate, given that I have a replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I'll open up a new round to report to the debaters. Here you go, please. Member Boyan Rugelj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Speaking of time, I'll be briefer, because we're really losing it today, but we've lost even more, after what my predecessors said, a lot more, and it's not just money, it's gold. But the whole point is not, as I see it today, in this. All I see is this, in the light of the speculation of the Social Democrats, to our Government and our coalition. Look, they'd like me to have a law like this so they'd be able to even more easily frame me for more stuff, like buying a table, etc. This is what they want to achieve with this amendment. So they can point to our government later: "Yes, what did you do? You haven't done anything, but it's been so long." But they now propose such amendments and such a change of law. Look, one gets the last feeling that they're just fighting for that town on some charts over there in the papers, for everything else that's really going on, and they don't give a shit. About as if you were going to the store with a child, and you would take the shelves there, of course it's cute to watch it, but you also have to save money for that kind of thing. When I look at this, I can hardly comment on it in any other way than in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u41	There's a member of Parliament, Brad Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I guess I wasn't clear enough. When I spoke about a case of unusual growth in the value of the works signed for equipping with some facilities at the Pediatric Clinic, I emphasized that, from February to April or May, the value of the design budget increased by a billion and a half, from three and a half billion to five billion. And then in the negotiations, there was an increase in value for an additional billion tolars. So if the contracting authority took advantage of the possibility that the negotiations offer - why were negotiations in the procurement law ever introduced? In the previous term, you certainly voted in favour of this, those who were Members at the time, because, in fact, the public sphere was in some way discriminated against by the private sector, which, let's say, had made an equally large investment by negotiating value. I actually had a chance to see that. When Droga Portorož was building a new building in the production hall in Izola, she was able to raise the price by over 20%. I will not use the term normally used in construction in such a case to breathe very hard when carrying out this investment. But the price was negotiated. At the time, we, the public sector, had not yet had this option. It is clear here that last year the Ministry of Health was unable to use the power afforded by the right to negotiate with tenderers and has simply agreed to a billion, saying that if we go from the beginning, 2 billion and a half more than it was, say and write, five months earlier because the contractor was elected in July 2006. I have to say, it's something amazing. Although the possibility of negotiations has been given, it is likely that if it were a complaint, it would look a little different. Because at the time of the complaint, because those who would complain would be some third bidder who would offer a lower price, and then the ministry could be unburdened, without the pressure of those who have earned 61 million tolars per billion tolars per base - I must say that it is quite a percentage, not because it is a billion differences. 61 million, how much money is that, 0.6 percent, right? I don't know how high the commission is, but for a company that doesn't have any realisations, it's a pretty good thing. And now I would say that it is precisely because of this that it is good that the basic law applies, it is said, the possibility is negotiated, and that even when there are complaints, we can see that there may be a mistake in the contracting authority. The contracting authority may have been a poorly prepared tendering documents. Why, though, do so many complaints about the tender documents now appear? Because the profession preparing the tender documents seems to be limping. And when we listened to what we said on the committee and warned that it would be good to raise the security, not the fee, the security, it is said that when the complainant asks for an audit to file the security, he does not have to give the money. And if it is established, as in the case of Sévnica, that the State Audit Commission finds that the complaint was unjustifiable - the security is set aside. Done! And, of course, this threat is that at 5% of the value displayed you will have to pay the security if it is proven that you have been deliberately squeezing or that there was a totally unjustified request for review, in which case, of course, a lot of people will consider putting that bail guarantee up to 5%. In addition, we know that this bank guarantee will have a period of time, say and write, one month. It will not be like a bank guarantee for the quality of the offer or, for example, it will take five or ten years for the quality of the works, but a bank guarantee will only be for that time until its audit request is resolved. And in this case, we can talk about how effective it can be at preventing unjustified audit requests, in which case this is the case. And that's why I have to say that I think it's most important for the government to do what we said here last year. What is said by a whole range of representatives or representatives of contracting authorities, as the State Audit Commission says, is unnecessary and irrelevant. A security, a security for the seriousness of the audit request, would be important. This is the kind of thing that would actually prevent a number of unnecessary and unjustifiable audit requests. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u43	Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A colleague of Pecan's has been talking for a long time about matters that are not in any way related to the matter that we are talking about today. We are talking about Article 1 of the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures and the amendment to this Article 1. Three quarters of the time she spoke of one particular procedure relating to the award of a public contract which does not have any direct or indirect connection to this article, since this contract, which was published last year, was carried out in accordance with the applicable law and any of the tenderers who felt that anything was wrong had the right to complain or to file an application for review. According to the available information, none of the 30 who raised the tender documents submitted this application. 30 had the opportunity to make an offer, two of them submitted an offer. Should the contracting minister then, in a specific case, call all the other 28 on the phone and invite them why they did not make an offer, or how some imagine procedures in that country. However, the pre-budget values and the values achieved on the basis of the tenders have no direct link and in this case it was the case that the colleague of Pecanova was carrying out a very grave abuse of the allegations. That's the first part. She talked about fees, the fees are defined in Article 4, Article 4 is not open and there is no amendment to that. For this reason, I would ask you to remind your future colleague Pecanovo of these violations and, in such a case, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, take away the word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u45	Thank you, too. But I must disappoint you, which some Members do not talk about Article 1, not least a colleague sitting next to you, so colleague Bojan Rugelj, spoke about the government and today we are not discussing the government law. It is likely that all Members present today have found that I am leaving a broad debate because I feel that the debate is not harmful. We will proceed on the basis of the sesame of the applicants. Member Anton Kokalj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The proposed law refers to investment in public infrastructure, if I put it simplistically, and here often the speed of execution of public procurement or investment is of paramount importance. Often, the basic element of the invitation to tender in the light of the needs that arise is not only a price, so I believe that the proposed law in the context of this amendment is also trying to increase or improve the efficiency of public procurement and, above all, the feasibility of investments, so any step that makes it impossible or that reduces the way from the need to implement in the context of rational public procurement is welcome. I think that, in this sense, such a law is to be supported and, in my opinion, the amendment is not the most well-intentioned in this context, in fact complicates the situation. I myself believe that talking about the fact that the State Audit Commission is always an independent body, we all know how this is going on in practice and, above all, I think that we should look at getting rid of the public procurement procedures of those applicants who do this as their own business. I can say from practice that this is happening, namely that the complainants wait for details, complain about the call at the right time, and then blackmail either the contracting authority or the pooled contractor and try to extract some part of 'black'. Indemnifications for withdrawing from the action can in fact become a professional business. On the other hand, if such a law had been adopted earlier, it would probably not have happened that, for example, the State Audit Commission would have annulled the decision on the choice of the contractor when the contract had already been signed and the transaction was already running. I have experienced this myself and then this is a very awkward situation, and then the complainant actually has all the blackmailing positions in his hands to try to make a profit in an easy way, without putting anything into it, except that he is a good student of all the details of public calls and procedures. I would therefore say once again that I think that this law should be adopted as soon as possible. It should be known, however, that no law can replace the ethics of business. I think that it is also necessary to work in parallel to severely sanction the abuse of public procurement procedures, also in the face of opponents and certain ideas already given in the debate, then we can also use them to continue and improve this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u47	Thank you, too. Member Milan Friday has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u48	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I think of Parliament as the place in which we Members express our opinions; opinions relating to a topic that we are dealing with, in this case, the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures. Parliament is therefore a place in which either parliamentary groups or Members express their views on this law - whether it is an expert or a political one - is another story. And I do not think that Parliament is the place where there should be eternal confrontation on one side of the opposition, on the other side of the coalition, but is the place where we are looking for common solutions on certain topics that are under consideration. That is why I cannot agree, so I have understood my colleague Squeak, that because he is only from a positional point of view - but above all I think that his point of view - this law is trying to change, we, who are the opposition, in the LDS, do not follow him because we believe that in this case he is wrong or we think that these amendments proposed do not matter as much and are not as welcome as he thinks. Therefore, let him understand that we can also have different opinions, and in this case the LDS has different opinions. By the way, he's got us talking about it, like we're saying, 'cause he's got to take the capital. I could bring him back with another case that he was taken over by a partnership that he used to criticize when he was still sitting in our ranks, but I'm not going that way. I'm going to the subject we're talking about and to the amendment we're talking about. So, I have a feeling that some in today's debate have literally criminalized everything that is going on and what is going on in the field of public procurement. It's not that bad again. So not all subscribers or all tenderers throw in the same basket. Many, and most of these are honest, most of them are kind, well-intentioned, but of course they are also those who work either under the influence of politics or their own influence also actions that are not in honor or in accordance with the law. And because of these we cannot condemn all others who I think are mostly landing or running with positive ambitions, with ambitions to get a job or subscribers to get a good contractor. I myself have been in these transactions for 25 years: either I would be in the role of a bidder, of this tenderer for 20 years, or I would be in the role of a contracting authority for about 3 years. So I've got one and the other side somehow cleared. I know what I was doing as a contracting officer and what I expected as a contracting officer. And I also know how and when I offered as a contractor or a provider, and I also know what we were because I was a constructionist, I've done a lot of trudging, a group of bidders, to play these procedures and to reach the goal sometimes at the border of normal or at the border of legitimate. I believe that the law on public procurement itself and this law on audit also have weak sides, but in this case, in this part we are talking about now, I do not think there are weak sides. I think that this amendment proposed by Mr Squeakl - from one case that I have heard today, does not touch him. All the other cases have been used, just this amendment and this case, exactly as it is now intended for this explanation, I don't think I've heard it. And it seems to me that we have done nothing wrong by letting the tender process run, by speeding up and not losing time, by not losing momentum, by not losing value after all, because the considerable delay in certain procedures or giving out works, of course, is also indirectly increasing, because inflation is still doing something or other arrangements have been concluded during this time. As a result, I think it is wise and wise to shorten this procedure when it comes to doing so. However, we still have corrective measures, and this correction is the opinion of the audit committee or the decision of the audit commission. And why should these procedures not run until the final audit committee decides as it decides? If he decides for the sake of the one who complained, it is, thank God, justice is just enough. If we decide to take advantage of the contracting authority who challenged such complaints, we have also achieved our goal. As a result, I do not see such a dramatic view of this subject because in other areas of this law there is probably more abuse than at this suspension or at this stage of the procedure. The examples used by Mrs Pečanova show - I agree with her that they show - that here in this story around the Pediatric Clinic there was - probably, I cannot prove it, this will be proved by the authorities, I hope, who should "sink" into this - there are also pre-supply arrangements or before the tender procedure was launched. Again, this is not the case that we are talking about today, and the amendment that we are talking about today, but an example in which connections arise that the contracting authority cannot influence or can influence by interrupting this public contract and going to look for another round of tenderers who will find that they have the opportunity to get a job. If I finish. For these reasons, and only for these reasons, we do not support this amendment, because we do not see a point of view and a goal that is clear and that would substantially change the situation that arises in the field of public procurement, so that we do not join in supporting this amendment. At the same time, I do not think that we are taking it and we will not take the right to speak about it differently from the one proposed by the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u49	Thank you. Comrade Squeakle, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u50	I'm going to replicate very briefly, not because of these partnership statements and so on, because I don't think this marriage was even a partnership. The fundamental dilemma, Comrade Friday, is very simple. It's a principle of whether you have legal certainty or not. The suspension provided legal protection to 600 contracting entities, who, of course, at 14,000 businesses, assessed that they had been abused in one way or another. This situation is gone. The suspension will be gone. So, who else is going to complain? This is a fundamental question of how to ensure legal certainty when there is no more suspension. The public procurement procedure shall be allowed to continue and, where a non-elected tenderer complains and his complaint to the State Audit Commission does not hold back the proceedings, dialogue between the successful and the unelected tenderer shall be initiated. That's nice of you to say - we know the economic term - "decreasing free competition". As a result, the reduction in legal certainty by suspending the suspension by law is negative and is contrary to the basic concept of the law. In Slovenia, this law has been regulated for 10 years; in these 10 years we have had savings on public procurement and were recognised when we entered the European Union with suspension and the State Audit Commission, that we have adequate legal certainty. That's what's on your mind. It's a question of principle. Your test will be a vote on the second amendment, and I therefore, of course, assess that the debate here is necessary and the government has not presented us with any arguments, except that it is necessary to quickly open the Schengen that legal protection must be sacrificed. And here is the principle question: is it right in Slovenia to extend the economic initiative by creating new providers who believe they have legal protection?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u51	Thank you. Member Rudy Veršnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, lovely greeting to all present. The amendment we are discussing cannot now be accepted as well-intentioned. In fact, I cannot forget the discussions we had last year in a similar law when some with all the resources and the impossible means wanted to prevent any change and today they are being advertised as some sort of principled people. In fact, look, the audit committee, which was set up to act and act impartially, was already said here today, was set up as an independent commission. I don't know, I'm wondering, do these same people who talked about it today think that it's not independent now, that it's Jansheva or whose? Indeed, this same commission decides on the appeal procedure, this same commission will give a green light to the conclusion of the contract, and the contract is what triggers the procurement. Until the contract is signed, however, I see no reason why procedures should not proceed normally, of course all with a view to saving time and thus money. Time is money. We can't forget that. And even such a singing tunnel, of course, we all want those who go from Gorenjska to Ljubljana and from Medvod and from these ends to not stand on the road and spend money on fuel consumption after unnecessary, to pollute an environment which I believe is not even possible to define prices. And because of some principles and principles, we are willing to risk everything, regardless of the damage caused by this. Yes, indeed it is possible to say that some orders will be more expensive and we will lose something, but let's not forget the costs that are coming, no one remembers these costs, no one warns about these costs, these costs are, in my opinion, and, equally, I can argue, greater than the damage that may have occurred, higher. And just as these costs are not proven, even that damage is not evident, I claim with all responsibility. And I think this amendment is completely inappropriate. The government has decided to amend, we have decided on the Commission for Budgetary Control to adopt these amendments and I think that they are entirely enough for you to speed up public procurement and, again, I say, save money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u53	Thank you, too. Member Borut Sayovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. When we talk about this review of public procurement, I also think it is important to point out that the contracting entity is deprived of its choice. Take a look at the sewers. In sewers we can build a matter from concrete, plastic, polyester, polyethylene, iron and other tubes. And now, because in this story someone has not seen himself, one of the bidders will, of course, complain indefinitely. I think that this procurement should also give the contracting authority the right to choose, in accordance with its options, objectives and plans, and to all those who do not see themselves in this story by chance, to prevent the possibility of a complaint at all costs. See, this is about the same as at home when you build a house, stairs or a terrace, according to the options you will decide whether you will have regular concrete stairs or maybe quite wooden or rolled from the ground, or whether you will continue the steps with ceramic coating or marble. And this right, for example, is already taken from the congregations in selecting the material, but it gives someone the opportunity to complain indefinitely. And it was easy to make an end of it. And then, as far as time and appeals are concerned. Of course, after you received confirmation from the State Audit Board that you were right to turn this process around, it takes about two months or more besides the money and then the story repeats itself. Who's complaining? At the beginning of the proceedings, serious companies complained, and now apparently companies that were established there with people from the neighbouring Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina complain about the intervention of someone else. When we were to save 15 days at a time, we were looking for someone who, on behalf of this firm, filed a complaint, of course, unmarked, unsigned - what do you know: where this complainant is; he only works on his cell phone, on his phone, has no secretary or official office where he could personally deliver this letter and our answer to the complaint. But you can afford 15 days. You can't even find this letter at the post office. That's what this story looks like in practice. And this story is crazy, and I'm happy to break it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u55	Thank you. Member Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Once again a nice greeting to all present! I will take advantage of your benevolence today, Mr President, and I will also discuss it more broadly than I would otherwise. Thank you in advance. The amendment proposed by the Group of Social Democrats suggests that the current situation remain. In short, let it remain as stated in article 11 of the Law, for it is heard to be good. As this article has saved 400 or I do not know how many millions of euros, nor is it essential, this article guarantees legal certainty if it does not exist, will be broken and so on. Of course not. Anyone who has read the law and who has read the amendment to Article 11 has seen that this is a change in this part, which speaks of the possibility that the procurement procedures may, despite being audited by any of the tenderers who considers that they have been violated in the proceedings, or that they expect their legitimate expectations to be respected. That's the only difference. And only when the decision in the case of the revision of the State Audit Commission is legally binding can the contracting authority conclude the contract; unless, on a reasoned proposal from the contracting authority, the State Audit Commission decides otherwise in its assessment, but this is already another story. It's an exception to the rules. These are rare cases. We have procedures in other spheres where there is no suspension at all, we have a fair trial and another, where no one deals with this issue of non-legal security. I am firmly convinced that eight years ago, when the law was passed, no one calculated that this provision would be misused as it has been in recent times. I firmly believe that no one has thought that some of the procedures, some of the audit procedures initiated by individual tenderers, will be conducted solely because they advocate exclusively some other objectives, not those pursued by the procurement process. And I think we need to end this. It is high time that this matter is regulated and made possible, as the amendment foresees, legal certainty for all those who consider that something is wrong in the proceedings and that their legal assurance is contained in this novel, and to prevent the speculative purposes of those who exploit this procedure in order to reach an end to substantially higher tenders and to achieve a very far-reaching execution of a public contract. If some feel that orders are made to cut the tapes, then you are in very serious error. I don't know why you're sitting in the National Assembly, and I don't know how you can sit in the past in responsible places in the ministries. However, public contracts shall be made for the purpose of implementing the basic documents adopted by the National Assembly. Cases of past years also show that those who cut the tapes lost the election. There's no direct connection in this. We have a fresh case, a colleague of Rob and Pavlich at the Black Clan. Before the elections, they cut the tape, the asphalt had not yet dried, or it was first asphalted for Giro di Italia, and then they had to recoat it. But the LDS lost the elections at that time, despite the mega project and this strip dismemberment by the former Transport Minister, now a member of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, and by the former Prime Minister, also a member of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors; hence, by members of the Group of Members who want this poor provision to remain in force. There is no direct connection in this, but it is a very bad thing if these things are thought that way and if that is the case. The pediatric clinic is personally at issue with me - not because things are happening and because it is obvious now that this project will be completed within a certain time frame. But in recent years, nothing has happened. At the beginning of our term of office, we had a final account for 2003, which said that over 5 billion 800 million unused funds were from the so-called Health Investment Fund, while we had an open paediatric clinic, an oncology institute, a table, and I don't know what other investments. That was the problem. And while we're at the tables, the problem with the table isn't that they're malfunctioning now, it's a problem on the customer's side - the contractor that needs to be solved. He must, in accordance with what they have signed, ensure that the business is carried out as it must be. The problem was that precisely because of these provisions that you want to keep in force in the SD Group, the operating tables took place for four years. Excuse me, three years. The choice took place for three years. That's insane! So there's something wrong here. Please kindly ask if any of us are going to order something, probably not to order anything for three years, but in one way or another, it will be arranged for this process to be carried out. And the same must apply to the country, respecting all legitimate and legitimate rights of those who believe that they have made a better offer, that anything has been violated and that these legitimate rights can be exercised; but not because of speculative purposes, what is happening now: the invitation to tender shall be published after twenty days of the submission of the tender and the months shall go on. Nothing can happen in these procedures anymore. But it's the hardest, most extensive public procurement. That's not good, that's bad, that means we're moving away from legal certainty, from what some in this room are defending. And the pediatric clinic, which has been repeatedly mentioned today, distorted, I must reiterate. 30 have been raised by tender documents in open procedure! There was no need for the procedure to continue negotiations. There could be a choice between those two who made the offer. It would have happened for 500 million or more more than the process was then completed. Making a correlation between those censuses made by a designer and those given by the tenderers is incorrect until things are looked at in detail. And let him look at them. I am the first to look to clear up, to see why there have been so many different assessments, because I also agree that it is not right that there are some assessments that differ substantially from what happens on the market. Of course something's wrong, someone's made a mistake. Whoever it is - I will not go into this as some in this Chamber, I am not an expert on these matters, and I also think it would be unfair for everyone involved in this process. I owe it to my colleague Pecan, in view of her moralization, to say something once and for all, and I would like this to be clearly stated: I never, never, never, not in the National Assembly, nor outside of it, have I personally offended her, nor said anything bad about her. Never. I'm not sure she did the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u57	Thank you. Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I would, of course, like to remind gentlemen that it is necessary for this amendment to be adopted, even because the Public Procurement Act has changed. The Public Procurement Act introduced a competitive dialogue, a competitive dialogue, I quote, Mrs Vesna Kranjc: "This procedure, of course, allows the contracting authority to treat tenderers in an unequal manner". Imagine the situation, the contracting entity gets two offers, the tenderer A is not selected, the tenderer B is not selected. The offerer B was cheaper than the tenderer A, complains, I think it is justified and the contracting entity continues to engage in a competitive dialogue with tenderer A in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and achieves, for example, the same price as with tenderer B. The transaction received a tender A, although it is justified to do business according to the price, the provider B. Where is legal protection? The Public Procurement Act greatly relaxes public procurement and the Procurement Procedures Review Act will greatly relax public procurement in Slovenia in accordance with the released Slovenia. The result, what's the result? The result is that public procurement will be more expensive. That's what you want today. With the second amendment, which I will talk about below, there will, of course, be a test of your credibility and something else about fees. If the thesis is that tenderers are unjustifiably complaining; before submitting the data, 4.1% in 2005, 4.2% of the complaints to the State Audit Commission, each 25th public procurement is before the State Audit Commission. Whether it's big or not, I don't know. 4% is slightly more than a statistical error, 3%. But if this thesis is true, then, of course, it is with additional instruments, not with the fees, as we will speak, but with a given guarantee of the seriousness of the complaint to be resolved. This is how this is resolved in market economies, and this is also addressed in some countries with a first degree suspension. Why didn't you take it on your mother's working body? Because you are not interested in this and because it is simply not about wanting to really restrict, in your own words, those who complain unjustly. You just want to create conditions because the power of the scissors and the canvas is in your hands. And this first article, as it is now written, makes it possible in full. And that's no longer legal protection. And you're here on a case-by-case basis to change the law. It's about this so-called tape cutting. I don't remember any change in the law. The Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures and the Public Procurement Act have been the same since 1998 at this point, solvency applies, legal protection applies.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Comrade Squeakle. Member Srečko Hvauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well, when I listen to the discussions of colleagues and colleagues of Social Democrats, I'm a little worried about our partnership. Obviously, you haven't completely coordinated yet. A colleague of Pecanova says that there has been an increase in prices under the existing law, while a colleague of Cvikl speaks the opposite way so that the new law will bring about an increase in prices. So it's a little bit of a break-up. Even around the suspension colleague Pecanov has no major problems, but he sees the biggest security problem. I don't know why in those amendments you proposed, you didn't try to solve this problem the way she sees it. Obviously, you're probably not fully tuned yet, but time will bring its own. With regard to this amendment, however, Cvikl said a great deal about competition or a reduction in competitiveness. But I think that this new arrangement, which is being proposed, will bring exactly the opposite. No more speculative offers, no more speculative complaints. And that means that whoever makes the offer will have to make a serious offer, seriously, because it will also be followed by choice, not some long-term procedure, return and so on. But those who don't make a good offer, quality and price, will fall out. This means that competition will be strengthened. The second thing is, there is no prior bargaining, which we've already talked about, and some tied store, you, me, me, you; I won't complain if you let me go on some other project through or on another public order. About foreign competitors. Why is there so little of this foreign competition in our country, why could it, I don't know, also have an important impact on the prices and quality of services delivered through public procurement? Just because many have given up. Some serious firm, I don't know if it's time to deal with three or four years of public procurement and make a hundred offers, and I don't know what to complain about and wait for a decision by the audit commission. They go where the procedures are shorter, transparent and equal or equal for all. Corruption. I don't know much about this field of public procurement, and I'm just going to give you one example. It happens a lot that someone tells their competitor honestly, "Listen, I won't complain, but I want to get something -- whether it's commission or it's participation in another business." And what is that? Extortion on the one hand and in fact in some way corruption. And this change will make such blackmail easy to prevent. Then again, a colleague of Cvikl, who usually has the answers to all the questions or almost all the questions, asked himself in one of the previous speeches or probably one question that he did not answer. Who else will complain if there is no suspension? I think the one who will be convinced that a mistake has been made in the bidding process. That one. And no, because he speculates in order to achieve some other goals - one who will be convinced that something was actually wrong in the process. Of course, that is why I say once again that I do not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u61	Thank you very much, colleague Hvauc. I'll open another round for a possible application. Here you go. Three other panellists have been reported. Member Christian Janc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u62	Thank you very much again. This first amendment, which obviously is not supported by everyone in this house more or less, except another colleague, we need to convince colleagues of the ongoing debate that perhaps it would be good for them to accept this important matter together, in my view, the very important matter that we are discussing today. When we adopted the Public Procurement Act last year, I think that this was a big step made in a positive direction and the first experience shows that it is good, positive, but it could be even better, and the good is never so good that it can not be better. As a result, this matter is followed by the law on revision, which is here today. And I think that all of this when I listen to debaters who have certain arguments, and even after all, bad experience with the existing revision, definitely, those who come from some backgrounds and we come to these things, we find that today, while we are living at this fast pace, the speed and time of extreme importance. When you decide to make an investment, when you get all the necessary documentation, when you put together a financial structure, when you get the final consent, I'd like to start working, not waiting four years after you've got all this ready to go through these procedures. That's unacceptable! Time, speed, decisions are extremely important today. Mr. Squeakle, you want to move on so slowly, and you will. And in some individual cases, as you can see for yourself, this is a bad practice. It's not. I think it's good and it's positive and this government and this parliament want to simplify their procedures. And we have done quite a few of these in this mandate, how simpler, how economical, all in one place and so on and so on. How can we shorten these bureaucratic paths that are still too big for our citizens and entrepreneurs, believe me, even for the congregation and the country? And one of these cases is this law, this case. I hope that then, with this novelty, the State Audit Commission, and all these other procedures, in order to reduce the number of complaints, there will have to be arguments, there will be higher fees; in short, all of this will give some overview to those potentials who are trying to prevent these things in one way or another, because the market is fighting for business - it will be impossible to do so. And I hope that today's debate will bring about the important step forward that we all want in this society, in this environment, in every project that is being carried out - either in Tržič, Šentvid, Sevnica or elsewhere - faster, for the realisation, completion of the procedure and finally for the final signing of matters, and let's give the contractor a job. Indeed, what a fellow Member and Mayor of Tržič said earlier is true, this year is full of investments in all areas, state, local, regional, etc. And it is also obvious here that speculation is how to pull such investments in a different way next year. Today, this legislation allows them to do so, no problem. Audit, months pass, year's around, yeah, we're already at eight. This is not in the interest of society, the environment, the financiers, but especially of those involved in such or other projects, not only at the municipal level, but also at the state level. And I hope that, at the end of today's debate, Mr Zwickl will see that at home 89 Members are more or less right and that we want good, without any bad intentions about this first amendment of the article you are proposing, a completely different one that, in my deep conviction, does not have good intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u63	Thank you. Member shall have the floor [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Now we are too far away from the moment colleague Hvauc spoke. But then I'll open another round to discuss. The word is Milan Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u64	I ask those who want to ask the question that I want to answer because of individual cases of marriage. Why has the suspension been in Germany for 30 years or more? Secondly, of course, everyone would like to spend money as quickly as possible. But it's taxpayers' money. And taxpayers must be assured that the money is spent in a rational way, with the competition of suppliers and not domestically. And the last. Gentlemen of the coalition, if this is such a big problem, why didn't you put it in a coalition contract? Why didn't you propose this in 2005, 2006? No! No! Six months, so to speak, or one year and a quarter before the elections, you are proposing an urgent amendment to the law. Because of one tunnel?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u65	Thank you. Member Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. It is true that we are here in Parliament to talk about various aspects, about different aspects, but given the fact that how many mayors with this great experience have come to the fore of this law, it is undeniable that this solution, which is before us today, is a good solution and the amendment of the Social Democrats is in fact not supported by anyone, because it would destroy what is the purpose of this law. At some point, if we remember, we have actually come into an impossible situation in these public contracts. At our place in Prleka we would say that in these public contracts it was so that it actually began to "wrestle with the dog". That's how it happened. Four years ago, I remember, or a little less, Milojka Kolar in the National Assembly said something incomprehensible. She said that about 25% of the money in public contracts is lost in private pockets. That was terrible information for me. If we went back to the 500 billion that was in that year of investment, it is said that this money goes unrefundable, that I will not repeat this phrase of taxation, etc. But all of this our people have to pay in some way. And the government faced this problem right at the beginning, we got new laws in this area, and now we need to actually disable this law. What some have said - I think that colleague Kokalj is very visual also as the former mayor of this argument - that some complain in order to complain. At the same time, they blackmail those chosen to do so. This is probably the way this is going. And if, after the adoption of this law in this country, you or others will no longer complain, it will be very much for investments, both at the municipality level and at the country level, because in Slovenia it is still true that someone is quick to do so twice. This is also the case with public procurement. If these procedures are carried out, there are indeed a number of risks, ranging from the state budget to those funds that are still being offered to us by the European Union at that time. And, of course, this first article, which is a very good solution, because the procurement process, despite the complaint, is going on and then we get this competence from the State Audit Commission, so that it can assess the relationship between the harmful consequences of the retention and the benefits and then decide. However, the contracting authority may not sign the contract before the State Audit Commission has done its work. The deadlines are also set out within which time limit the State Audit Commission must do so. And then the visa of this section 4 how the costs are charged if someone has triggered an unnecessary requirement for revision, etc. So all these things are going this way so we can just heal them. And I really don't understand this effort of the Social Democrats, who are supposed to be working in some kind of partnership, that they are today trying to make these good solutions look bad to the Slovenian public. I don't think that's necessary. I thought we were going to end this law more quickly today, but obviously there's a lot to talk about and create a situation, how everything is bad in this area. It's not true, things are getting better, and it's only right that they're being fixed in this way. However, as far as judicial protection is concerned, this suspension, which colleagues from Social Democrats speak so much about, is, of course, abolished only during the selection phase. Legal remedies remain. Against the State Audit Commission, it is said, against the decision of the State Audit Commission, a regular or exceptional legal remedy may be applied before a court which has those powers and the deadlines laid down in the Bond Code are applicable, it is said that there are no pulsating deadlines, but a normal bond ratio applies here. Thus, if someone considers that he has been injured in the selection process, he will seek his injury before a competent court. Of course, it will have to have the necessary power to make such a decision or a different decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I'm opening a new circle, please. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I'll just say two things. First of all, Mr Hwauc completely misunderstood me. When I spoke about the Pediatric Clinic case, I talked about the fact that, because the contracting authority failed to take into account and did not use all the options given by the Public Procurement Act, rather than the law on the revision of the procurement procedures, it did not use the possibility to lower the price at least at the second stage as a starting price for the implementation of the investment. So, I was talking about the Public Procurement Act, and if there were any complaints, probably the same price would be lower -- as a third complainant, I said. Under this law, such as the current law on the revision of public procurement procedures. Secondly, I would read something that was said on 11 May 2007 at the 40th regular meeting of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to oversee the budget and other public finances, about 10.15 a.m. That is, Mr. Zvonko Černač, who has just stated that he, as far as he remembers - thank God that he has limited himself to not remembering - said like this [[That's what he told me.]] :"I think of your stupid explanations, which you draw from five..." and so on. Or the words "...buttocks that you draw from five" do not belong to a set of insults, but may Mr. Chernač judge himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u69	Thank you very much. My friend Blacky, the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u70	I'm not as ready as my colleague Pecan's, but just a moment, if you'll allow me, given that this story has reopened. Last week at a meeting of the commission, a colleague of Pečanova said: "We have long found that they are under every criticism about the educational effects of your parents' work". At one of the previous meetings, she found that I was missing what the Germans say "Kinderstube" is called "the right children's education". I'm still insisting that I didn't hurt my colleague, and what I said, I'm standing there, and what I said, it's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Well, even though we have a very interesting debate, I propose that the debate be concluded in connection with the first amendment. Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 34 Members present, which is not enough to decide. Although I do know that the result will be [[...]] [[background advertising]] True, the entire SDS Group is present. [[...]] We are moving on to a re-decision, otherwise we will apply business rules. We're voting. 36 Members and Members are present. I'll have the National Assembly adjourned in 10 minutes. We will continue to do so at 1 p.m. when we decide again for the third time on the first amendment to Article 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u72	Dear Members and honourable Members! We're continuing our adjourned session. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 1. I would like to point out that this is the third attempt to vote. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 47. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We ended the vote on the amendment. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the second amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 1. I open the debate, the applications for discussion on the second amendment of the SD Group to Article 1. Mr. Mogue, please, you have the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u73	Very briefly, considering we're all gathered at lunchtime. In fact, the third paragraph of the proposed Article 11 introduces, in the light of the amendment just rejected, the possibility of the contracting authority returning the suspension which has been suspended. This is, of course, contrary to the Constitution, contrary to the legal order. If you have decided by rejecting our amendment that the suspension will be removed by law - by law there is no longer suspension, the procurement procedure can continue - you cannot now allow a diction that the contracting authority may decide, upon receipt of the audit application, that, irrespective of the first paragraph of this Article, the implementation of the procurement procedure shall be retained until the decision of the State Audit Commission. Imagine, someone got a job, one that didn't get the job, complain. And, of course, the business that has received should continue to negotiate, as the law says. But not if the contracting entity does not like the job, this contracting authority, the government, politics, Dars, 3,000 persons of public law, decides to introduce the suspension, not after the dictates of the law, as it was ten years old, but at the will of the contracting authority. Well, that's why, of course, this is a constitutionally controversial solution. We therefore suggest that if you have already abolished the suspension that this is true for all, this does not apply only to the cases of those tenderers which are at the discretion of the contracting authorities. Offerors, who are not at the will of the contracting authority, will be bullied by you under Article 1, paragraph 3, of the new Article 11. Therefore, we strongly recommend that you accept our amendment. Otherwise, this law will find its way to the Constitutional Court because of this provision. Now, Mr President, if you can warn Members of Parliament. The matter is very complicated, so it's worth taking time to read the third paragraph, but it's the current state. The amendment has been rejected. The suspension law no longer states that, unless the contracting authority so thinks, because the successful tenderer does not like it. That's discrimination. This is no longer free competition, it is no longer legal certainty. We have therefore proposed a revision of the Article and the abolition of the third paragraph. It would be interesting to know something about this to me, Vlad. The legal service also had a lot of comments on this, but you know, there was no non-observance or understanding on the working body in spite of the long debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u74	Thank you. Since there is still an interest in the debate, I am opening a new round of applications. Mr. Squeakle, please. You're giving up. Mr. Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. We will not support this amendment. But we're not going to support him because what Mr. Squeakl said is not true. The suspension shall not be eliminated and shall not be eliminated either, I will state the case where the tenderer complains, then in individual cases partial or complete suspension may be decided by the State Audit Commission. And if the State Audit Commission pleases the tenderer, the suspension shall be valid. That's why we won't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u76	Thank you. Mr. Zampernik. Or if you'll excuse me, Mr. Squeakle's replica. Here you go. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u77	Mr. Testen, with all due respect, has to read Article 2. The suspension, which is now under the law, is no longer available, allows negotiations to continue. Article 2 also implies the signing of a contract, which means that article 12 has been skipped, overcomplicated by the signed contract, and there is no longer legal certainty unless the contracting authority is pleased with what paragraph 1 of Article 1 says. Therefore, correct this third paragraph of Article 1 or obtain a legal opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr. Zampernik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u79	Because of the cost of your time, I'll be very short. In your explanation for this amendment to Article 1, you wrote, Mr Cvikl, "public procurement is about imitating competition". I think that competition is not going to imitate, but it is necessary to establish such conditions that it will actually exist: someone can imitate Drnovšek and someone is Drnovšek, someone can imitate a clown and someone is a clown. In the case of public procurement, I do not think it is an imitation of public procurement, as you say you would like to achieve it, and now the matter is clearer to me, we just want to imitate competition. But we don't want to imitate competition, but we really want to achieve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u80	Thank you. Yes, you have the replica again. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u81	Mr Zammernik, competition exists for market goods and services. Public contracts are not marketed goods and services, and the procedures for spending public money are used to imitate market competition for non-market goods and services such as motorways, tunnels and so on - the first year of the Faculty of Economics.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u82	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova. Here you go. You have the floor. Please, calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very briefly, I will support this amendment because I believe it is more so if it is decided on - and this at the request of the complainant, of course - whether the procurement procedure is postponed or not, the State Audit Commission, but not that, in case, I have to say that gravely this may be the problem, in the event that the contracting authority is not satisfied with the performance and is the most favourable tenderer he does not want, but that one who may have even, in agreement with the contracting authority, complained that the procedure could be suspended if the contracting authority so decides. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. And I would also like it not to remain unanswered. I apologized to Mr Chernač in writing and also publicly at the meeting of the Commission. But he thinks that his hurtful words are not an insult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u84	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss the amendment? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the second amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 1. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 60 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 46. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 2 of the Act. I'm opening the possibility of applying for a debate. Mr. Squeakle, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u85	I apologize for cutting Friday afternoon, but only so that you Members and Members will understand what you have just done. Following the new provisions of the law on the revision of the procurement procedure, which they have just completed, Article 1, the situation will be as follows: we will have a contracting entity who will receive two bids and will win the winner of the A. Offerer A is a winning bidder, but it is not attractive to the ruling coalition or to the contracting authorities, so the conclusion of the deal will be stopped for him. This is one possible case and it will happen that these winning entities have stopped the proceedings in an unequal position both in the public procurement market and before the law and will come, of course, I predict that constitutional opinions. And that concludes Article 1. Article 1 means that negotiations may continue but not be concluded. In Article 2, proposed by the Government, we have, instead of a last year's solution, you are reminded of the operating tables - which she said: regardless of the provisions of the first paragraph of the previous article, that the audit request does not hold back the procurement procedure, this is not done if the life or health of the people is at risk. However, last year's government was responsible for endangering human life or health. Mr. Janez Janša said, "We have the right to say when life or health is at risk." No! No! Now you are proposing: it is enough for the contracting authority to explain its argument, not the government anymore, not the political body anymore, but the State Audit Commission can allow not only to stop the procedure, but to conclude the whole contract. This means that the client's reasoned proposal - and the Legal and Legislative Service has said when this situation is coming, how the contracting authority's reasoned proposal must be; a reasoned proposal by the contracting authority is sufficient to allow a politically subordinate State Audit Commission to conclude a contract. That is to say, from the situation that was set up last year as an exceptional situation, the situation of life or human health, you are now allowing a general dictatorship: a reasoned proposal by the contracting authority and we can go to the conclusion of the contract. That's really what you're doing. You're letting go of public procurement. The amendment we are proposing says nothing more than that, unless the negotiation process is no longer stopped, but that the conclusion of the treaty should be allowed after the decision of the State Audit Commission in the event that the lives or health of the people are at stake, but not that it becomes a general dictatorship. This limits accessibility. Because, what happens now? From the previous complaint at the beginning of the procedure, you will now have a large number of complaints from not more bidders, but from the contracting authorities and these contracting entities there are 3,000 legal persons who will pressure the State Audit Commission to also allow them to sign the contract. Therefore, the policy will address the pressure on the State Audit Commission, not that the tenderers would have the opportunity to seek their right before the State Audit Commission. Those who carry out public procurement will go to the State Audit Commission: "Let me conclude a contract." This is the wrong world. And that's why I'm saying there's no legal certainty in this world anymore. The proposed amendment would limit these political pressures on the State Audit Commission to, for example, endangering the lives or health of people. In 2006, there was also an urgent change, and I do not know what, even the majority of the Commission, which I had led recently, had to implement Article 11a. In how many cases has this Article 11a been applied? Only in the event of the rescue of Minister Bručan. In no other case. A completely irrelevant story, except that Minister Brucan had to be rescued. You are now applying the possibility of signing contracts following a decision of the State Audit Commission, provided that the contracting authorities so require. The amendment proposed would limit this, so I suggest you support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u86	Thank you. I'm opening a new round of application for discussion. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The Social Democrats' Group, however, has now made this very clear, suggests that, in this article, the weighing of the "relationship between the harmful consequences of non-detention of the contract and the benefits for all who might be harmed and the public interest in concluding the contract of award of public contracts" should this part be compensated by a dictatorship, "if the lives or health of the people could be compromised". Last year, as he himself mentioned, we were faced with some amendment to the law, which even blocked the legislative process because the commission he led was composed of 3-3, and we were not able to break through this blockade until this commission extended with another member, so that the law could come to the National Assembly. At one of these meetings, there were some of them, and the continuation of evening and night, July 11, 2006, exactly, my colleague Swickl asked himself, quote: "What will solve the problem or definition of when they are, and when they are not endangered by the lives or health of people? This, of course, is that so-called slippery field. And he went, "Why do I say that? Because the second paragraph of Article 11 speaks substantively about all of this. It says that when deciding on the contracting authority's proposal, the State Audit Commission shall take into account the relationship between the adverse consequences of the retention and the benefits for all who might be injured and the public interest in the execution of the procurement procedure." I would suggest, Comrade Squeakle, that you look very credible and I would suggest that you stop and suggest that we vote on these matters. I, of course, cannot support this amendment, not because it is proposed by the Group of Social Democrats, but because it is not right. If you'll just let me have one more word. Given that a colleague of Pecan's must have the last word, I will leave her, too, and I will not go into further controversy, although I think I could read just a few more magnetograms from different types of word insults than she did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u88	Thank you. Is there still interest after the debate? Replica, Mr. Squeakle, please, you have been appointed.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u89	Very briefly. Article 11a said: "The contracting authority in this case after prior agreement of the government within three days..." The government's agreement was this political responsibility. Now this political responsibility is no longer in government but in 3,000 people of public law. And the confusion, of course, will be great.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you. Is there any other interest? Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I'm not going to discuss this embarrassment myself, but there's something I'm just curious about. These two parties are both in the Partnership for Development and in this co-operation for the Presidency. And Mr Squeakl has become both a partner and a co-operant, and I wonder whether he has taken advantage of all the possibilities offered by these mechanisms, which are being pursued by Parliament, he has used to prevent us from listening to these family disputes by others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u92	Well, Mr. Skull, this is not an amendment, this is a more procedural matter. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment? Here you go, Mr. Potch. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u93	Thank you very much. As much as Mr School, Mr President, I will discuss the amendment. And I ask him to learn about the content of the agreement, and I promise him that I will send the agreement to him, even though I have no hope of reading it to the end, where it says that we Members and Members of the Social Democrats are also in Parliament and no matter what the previous talks may have been. I would be very happy if Mr Školč could ever be respectful of any other opinion, but not as bad as that moment was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u95	The content of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures is not part of the framework for economic reforms, as it was not assessed in 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007. This situation came about for a very banal reason, which we said at the beginning of today's debate, in which some of you were absent. Somewhere in the spring of next year, the tunnel in Shentvid will have to be opened. The tunnel in Shentvid is still unfinished because it has not started working on electrical installations, and so we have the situation as we have here - after a rapid, urgent process of changing bad law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u96	Thank you. Mr. Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u97	Thank you very much. On behalf of our Group of Members, I would like to say that we will not support this amendment either. We will not support him because we do not think he belongs to the complex context of the law. Indeed, at the outset, I have stressed that the responsibility of the State Audit Commission, by amending this law, is significantly greater, it is said, to take on the responsibility that the Government has had when it comes to people's lives, in the view of Queequel. In this case, the State Audit Commission shall make a sovereign decision and have a much greater responsibility and thus a much greater autonomy to decide. That is why we will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is an explanation for Mr. Potsch. I have read these documents very carefully and, together with my colleagues, we have decided not to join the partnership or this non-aggression agreement in the Presidency. That's why I don't think it's appropriate for my comment to be called "babalina." We knowingly have not signed this, but we do not understand what all these agreements are made, what you are doing in front of television and in front of the cameras, talking about how you work for the good of Slovenia, but you are not prepared to say what kind of cooperatives you are and what kind of partners you are. The question is completely in place. What's all this for if it's none of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u100	Well, that's way too far from what's on the agenda. Someone else wants to discuss the amendment and Article 2. [[No, no, ……]] Then we vote on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 2 of the Act. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 44. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of Rule 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted at the home office would not have made the proposal inconsistent with the law. We are voting on the law as a whole. The vote is under way. There are 57 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 8. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to 8A-point of the agenda, which is the defence proposal of the Financial Relations Review Act and the separate recording of various activities, the urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mag. Signa Lavrič, Secretary of State at the Ministry, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr President, honourable Members and Members. Something briefly about the proposal for a law on transparency of financial relations and the separate recording of various activities. This law implements Directive 2006-11 of 16 November, with the same name, in our legal order. I would like to point out that this Directive of 2006 replaced Directive 80723, which was already in force, and in relation to this Directive, Slovenia was informed on 10 April 2006, but received an official reminder that we did not implement this Directive, followed on 26 March 2007 by a reasoned opinion from the European Commission of this Directive, as it was established, although the professional services and the former and that government considered that this Directive was implemented, but we found that it was not. This is where we coordinated with the commission. In short, we have found that we need to implement this 1980 directive, and in the meantime this new directive from 2006 was already coming into force, so we have waited until today to not change the law twice. This is how we implement this previous directive, which was simultaneously amended by this in 2006. Under the Directive, the law lays down a general rule of transparency, namely for financial relations between authorities and public undertakings, as well as for the provision of separate accounts of service providers of general economic interest. The essence of the law is that transparency of these financial relations ensures that there would be no unlawful state aid. The Act also provides for the JAPEZ to collect and process data of all public funds transactions which have been allocated in any form to public undertakings and service providers of general economic interest. Therefore, the basic objective of the proposed law is to provide a system for monitoring transaction data and this will allow our country to meet its reporting obligations to the European Commission. The establishment of this system will also improve the situation in domestic companies concerned by the Directive, which would otherwise be in a worse position to demonstrate the adequacy or eligibility of the aid granted to them in the case of complaints before the European Commission. The new law also provides a new definition of a public undertaking. A public undertaking, as provided for by the proposed law, is all undertakings under the dominant influence of the authorities, irrespective of the legal organisation they appear in. This Directive is based on the Directive itself and is slightly different from that used in the Economic Services Act. So this so-called Slovenian definition will have to be phased out. In the case of public companies in manufacturing activities with a sales volume of more than EUR 250 million, the country must submit to the European Commission a list of these companies by 31 March each year. We've forwarded this for 2006. These were only two companies, Talum and Acroni. However, in the case of smaller companies whose annual revenues exceed EUR 40 million, the country must report only at the request of the European Commission. And the data needs to be stored for five years. Something else about service providers of general economic interest. It shall exercise these activities under the powers or on the basis of special or exclusive rights conferred. That is to say, those who carry out other activities are more known to us than market activities, but they must keep separate records in accordance with this Directive. And this must be seen in business books. The purpose of this Directive is to prevent the cross-subsidisation of activities. This law also entails the need to establish a register of public undertakings and a register of operators with rights or powers, as well as two other records: a record of the public funds allocated and used, a transaction record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u102	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! At its 28th meeting on 31.5., the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the proposal for a law on transparency of financial relations and separate recording of various activities. The College of the President of the National Assembly concluded on 25.5. that the proposal should be considered on an urgent basis. The Legislative and Legal Service has prepared comments on Articles 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 14 and 15 of this proposal. Some of the comments made by the service are taken into account in the amendments adopted by the Committee and are set out below. However, some comments, which were not taken into account in the amendments, were raised by the representative of the service in the context of the discussion on the individual articles of the law submitted. In view of the short period from the submission of the draft law to its consideration at the meeting of the Home Committee or at the meeting of the National Assembly, in view of the numerous comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service which testify to the substantive complexity of the proposed law, as well as the fact that the amendments were prepared on the basis of the opinion of the Service and the Committee only at the meeting, it was also pointed out, in the context of the substantive debate on individual legislative provisions and the amendments proposed solutions, that such a way of dealing with the proposed law was unacceptable. In particular, it is a warning about the conduct of procedures for the examination of laws in the National Assembly, also in the light of the decision of the time frame for the adoption of legislation decided by the College of the President of the National Assembly, which cannot thus contribute to the quality of the legislative proposal. On the other hand, it was necessary to support the legislative solutions and amendments which, in the opinion of the proposers, improve the legal text at the meeting itself. In order to avoid similar situations, it would also be correct for the Government to prepare, in future, legal solutions relating to the adoption of appropriate measures within a specified time limit. The fact is that we have already received a warning in July 2006 that we have received a second warning before the March year lawsuit, and this material could have been prepared earlier. The Committee has adopted amendments to articles which it would not have listed and has incorporated them into the amended draft law in accordance with Article 133. We propose to the National Assembly that this law be adopted and thus avoid any possible procedure within the framework of the European Court of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u104	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Milan Petek will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u105	Thank you, President. Your Honor! The Government has drawn up a proposal for a law on transparency of financial relations and the separate recording of various activities and has proposed it to the National Assembly for adoption following an urgent procedure. Let me give you the chronology of what's going on with the law. The law was sent to the National Assembly on Friday 25.5.2007. On Monday, 28.5.2007, the Chairman of the Finance Committee sent us invitations for a meeting on Wednesday, 30.5.2007, the Legislative and Legal Service wrote comments. The following morning, so yesterday, 31.5.2007, we quickly amended the law or amendment to amend the law, without the Law and Law Service reviewing it again, we have already received it to the Finance Committee and today we are considering it at a meeting of the National Assembly. At the LDS, we estimate that, at night, the prepared law could not take into account a number of comments from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and was dealt with by the Finance Committee in advance. Members were unable to examine the law, so it is irresponsible to adopt such a law. In doing so, I would like to point out that the members of the coalition on the committee have also acknowledged that the law cannot be read in such a short time and that they have accepted the amendments without reading them at all. Whether this method of enacting the law is a model for the way in which the law is passed during the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union, we ask ourselves in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. In doing so and in addressing this law, we stress the following facts that the Government has not been able to respond in one year because of ignorance, ignorance or incompetence. The government and members of the coalition have evaluated the work, meaning and role of the Legislative and Legal Service with such ignorance, I am talking about Members on the Committee on Finance. By voting at all costs, without even knowing what we are deciding and what consequences this will have, the National Assembly will continue to lose credibility and reduce its reputation. The government has already received the first warning from the European Commission in April 2006 and the following year, in March 2007, and is now seeking to avoid sanctions that are threatening to disregard warnings. One year the government has ignored the warnings of the European Commission, and now it wants to adopt the law overnight and puts the responsibility for this into the National Assembly. The Legislative and Legal Service points out that the use of existing legal concepts with other content is questionable, and in a certain context for other entities and for other purposes is even inadmissible and that the law will therefore not be in accordance with Article 2 of the Constitution, which states that Slovenia is a legal and social state. This bill, and this opinion also joins us at the LDS Club, which introduces ambiguity into the legal system. At the LDS Club, we are aware that the European Commission is at risk of delay in Slovenia, but that the implementation of the law is more than half a year behind the responsibility of the Government, but we cannot make up for the delay by hand and by adopting a poorly prepared law overnight. We do not want to take part in this work. The responsibility for the adoption of legislation in such a form is therefore borne by the coalition Members, who are likely to adopt this law irrespective of the consequences. For the sake of all the above mentioned Members of the Liberal Democracy, we will not cooperate in the adoption of such a law, nor will we take on the responsibility of the Government. Members of the Liberal Democracy will not participate in the adoption of the law, and on behalf of the LDS Club, I declare obstruction in the debate and decision-making on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Members and Members of Parliament! By deciding to join the European Union, we have also made a commitment to harmonise Slovenian legislation, harmonise it with the one that applies to the Member States. In the New Slovenia Group, within the framework of the European acquis in the field of public finances, we advocate consistent respect for the whole legislation, because we believe that this will ensure adequate transparency in accordance with the principles of modern democracy and accountability in the management of public funds. As our country's task is to bring its legislation in line with European law, it is the European Commission's task to keep an eye on regulation in all Member States. The Commission therefore warns, warns. Non-response to warnings is followed by sanctions in the form of high, single or daily fines. The European Commission has already initiated legal proceedings against Austria, Finland, France, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Sweden since Directive 2006/101 or its predecessors have not been brought into their legal order. In the UK, they were able to stop the procedure because they will fully and almost literally transpose the directive. The most dilemma in implementation is due to the concept of a public undertaking. The bill shall be transposed in the manner known by the Directive and shall only apply for the purposes of this Act. The basic objective of the law is to establish a system which will prevent the granting of aid which is incompatible with the common market of the European Union. It establishes two registers: a register of public undertakings and a register of operators with rights or powers. The registers shall be public and shall be maintained by the Agency for Public Records and Services. A method of reporting the division and actual use of public funds with exceptions shall be laid down. It also defines how to report to the Agency, the Ministry of Finance and the European Commission. The draft law also provides for a way of keeping separate records to be provided by operators with rights or powers. The Agency and the Ministry responsible for finance shall exercise supervision. The law will enter into force on the day following its publication for the same reasons as it is adopted under the urgency procedure. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that, in order to prevent further adverse consequences, the bill must be adopted. We trust the proposaler to propose the most optimal solutions possible at a given time with the solutions provided by law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u108	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u109	Your Honors are here! What is ahead of the National Assembly at this time? On the one hand, we see that we are facing a threat coming from the European Community due to unadapted Slovenian legislation. We all know that this threat or fact of consequences has been known within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - at least to them - for more than a year. So, we are under EU pressure, we are in the fact that the Slovenian government is not running its affairs, waiting for the last moment. And before the content of the law, which really needs to be amended, the question is whether the content written in this law is even appropriate. Allow me to point out from this place that before the EU framework, several times before the previous one, this government has been informed of doubts about the existence of companies bearing the capital company code on behalf of which they bear the public company code. Why am I going to talk about this, and why were the appeals made at least by the parliamentary group? Due to the fact that both fasteners are accompanied by a different umbrella law; the umbrella law in the field of public undertakings speaks of the purpose of these companies, as the aim is to pursue services for users. So, approaching these services. However, the Act on an economic society as a goal, irrespective of the form of an economic company, provides, especially if I take a share company, for the maximisation of income or profits. And already from this title, the general provisions of both laws, the Law on Economic Public Companies and the Law on Economic Companies are fighting each other. In Slovenia we actually had one and the same company registered through both status forms, but this dilemma was not an obstacle to the existence of this not previous government or this government. But given the time limit, I am sorry that the National Assembly is meeting on such an urgent matter, that the parliamentary group can only speak for five minutes and that there has been an informal debate on the parent body. I fear from this place whether the Government's representative will be able to respond to the outstanding dilemmas during this hearing. He won't be able to. In some ways, however, I would just like to know whether the provisions of the other two billing laws that apply only in cases for the public company Nigrad d.d. are being amended, since the fact is that we are interfering with this content on the one hand with the roof law which speaks of capital companies, namely the company law, and on the other hand in the roof law which speaks of public undertakings. But nowhere, as far as I have been able to look at the law, which I was really interested in, is a provision that would say: "With the implementation of this law, the provisions of the other two laws in this area are deleted or amended. "I am afraid that within the framework of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia they are pursuing only one goal, i.e. to avoid the punishment that hangs over us, i.e. the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, we must also support this goal in the National Party, because it is not in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia to pay penalties. However, it is also not in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia to fully adopt laws that will conflict with each other, either on the basis of delays or on the part of the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Under this law, which defines the financial relations between authorities and public undertakings, the question arises as to what the sale of such undertakings is: whether they are acting purely on the basis of the Company Act, i.e. the capital contributions d.d., or whether the transfer of ownership procedures on behalf of public undertakings will continue in this context. So, in fact, today, ladies and gentlemen, there is an extremely important law that leaves not only open questions in the past, but a gap of emptiness. In the context of the Slovenian National Party's Group, precisely because we are aware of the penalties, financial penalties, whether in single or multiple amounts, on the one hand, and on the other hand due to the irreconcilability of the said law of obstruction of this meeting, we will not do so. However, I would like to get, at least outside this box, at least to assure the Government's representative how they intend to proceed to the harmonisation of this law with the other two top-level laws emanating from the public undertaking, for example - d.d. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u110	Thank you. Mr Bojan Starman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u111	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The Republic of Slovenia received a reminder from the European Commission of 10.4.2006, as I had previously mistakenly said in July 2006, in which it found that there was a difference between Commission Directive 80/723 of 25 June 1980 on the transparency of financial relations between Member States and public undertakings and on financial transparency within certain undertakings and the Slovenian regulations by which the Directive was transposed into the Slovenian legal order. Therefore, the European Commission considers that the Republic of Slovenia has not properly transposed the Directive into its legal order and for this reason the European Commission may initiate proceedings against the Republic of Slovenia at the Court of Justice of the European Communities, which has also happened to some other countries which have not properly transposed the Directives. In the meantime, the European Commission adopted a new Commission Directive 2006/111 of 16 November on the transparency of financial relations between Member States and public undertakings and on financial transparency within certain undertakings which codified and repealed the Directive of Commission 80/723 and its amendment, except for the part relating to the obligations of Member States regarding the time limits for transposition of Directives into national law. Therefore, the proposed law gives rise to the legal order of Slovenia in fact to this Directive 2006/111 of the European Community. On 26.3.2007, the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union also received a reasoned opinion from the European Commission on infringements or inconsistencies of national measures for the transposition of this Directive on the transparency of financial relations between Member States and public undertakings. In this reasoned opinion, the European Commission calls on the Republic of Slovenia to take the necessary measures to harmonise it within two months of the adoption of the opinion, which is until 26.5.2007. If Slovenia does not do so, the European Commission may sue it before the European Court of Justice. What does this Directive 2006/111 actually mean? This Directive lays down a rule of transparency for financial relations between public authorities and public undertakings. The Directive lays down several aspects of financial relations between public authorities and public undertakings to which the transparency referred to in Article 1, paragraph 1, of the Directive must apply, namely, the settlement of business losses, the provision of capital, grants or loans on favourable terms, the granting of financial advantages through the cancellation of profits or the repayment of amounts due, the cancellation of the normal remuneration of public funds used and the reimbursement of the financial burden imposed by public authorities. These aspects are not laid down in the Slovenian rules. The Directive lays down certain principles for the provision of financial transparency as referred to in Article 1, paragraph 1, of the Directive relating to undertakings which have to keep separate accounts, namely the internal accounts of those undertakings corresponding to different activities, must be separate. All costs and revenues must be shared or allocated on the basis of consistently applied objectively justified accounting principles. Accounting principles must be clearly established. The proposal of the law before us follows the principle of transparency and integrity of the regulation of the field, and in particular the high level of clarity regarding the obligations of undertakings governed by the 2006/11 Commission Directive. Even members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have failed and we are not 100% convinced that the law we are adopting is fully in line with our rules and that it is not in conflict with any other law, but we will support it and, if necessary, we will change it later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u112	Thank you. Mag. Milan M. Cwickl will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u113	The Group of Social Democrats will not support the bill. The ruling coalition will have to take responsibility for the adoption of this law on its own. The reasons are as follows: The law on transparency of financial relations and the separate recording of various activities in the way it came into the National Assembly in the way it was prepared at the Ministry of Finance shows the total inadequacy of the Ministry of Finance to relations within the European Union. Almost three years have passed, and if someone wants to fix the last night before the deadline something that he has not done in the last few ten months, then of course no good results can be expected. The law, as it came into the National Assembly with 24 articles, received comments by the Legislative and Legal Service on more than half of the articles. The law, as we are considering today, is all in the 'black bold', which means that almost all of the 26 articles have been amended from now on, and the law is still very unclear. I will give just one example: Article 3 - the meaning of the terms, point three, "a public undertaking is an undertaking over which authorities can exercise the dominant influence." A few days ago, the Petrol d.d. Assembly adopted a decision by the Government on how to reward members of the supervisory councils. It's a dominant influence. If an economic society, a shareholder society, takes decisions at its assembly at the discretion of the political authorities, this is a dominant influence, and this definition is, of course, wrong. It is necessary to apply the definition of the Law on Public Enterprises or to amend the Law on Public Enterprises, to amend the Law on Public Services and Public Economic Institutions, to amend any other law, to apply any amendments to the Law on Public Finances, and not to do what is done here. There are, of course, very many problems to be expected in implementing this law, very many amendments to this law and, above all, a long discussion of the legal acts on the basis of this law. The problem is, of course, that in the way that the Ministry of Finance has dealt with these matters, although I do not know what the Minister of Finance is doing, I do not know what the two State Secretaries are doing, but sleep and not talk to other European Union countries about best practices in implementing transparency of financial relations and forgetting all the legislation we have aligned with the European Union and writing a new law, with new definitions, as if we were in Slovenia alone yesterday, is completely unrealistic. This is not just a reminder from the Social Democrats, the Law-Legal Service points out. And what happened last night at the meeting of the mother's working body was kind of nice of you to say, "slimastics." Mr President of the Monetary Policy Committee, of course, spoke about this. We cannot support a law that will create more problems than it solves. This is that, of course, we are members of the European Union and that this requires certain obligations, especially if decisions such as that of Petrolov d.d. are proposed. or any other more problematic involvement in the Slovenian economy, which, of course, is wrong, which is why the European Commission is suing countries before the European Court of Justice. And with this law, we will not solve anything. With this law, we will only create more problems. It is necessary to change the practice of getting involved in the Slovenian economy. The law has created and creates additional confusion, and we will not support it as a result of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u114	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment you have received on the bench and I am putting Article 15 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to this Article. The application for discussion of this amendment is pending. Also a representative of the government, Mr Lavrič can apply with a raise of hands. Mr. Sasha Peca, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. There's not much to say about the contents of the amendment. However, I would like to ask you, Mr President, allow me to ask about other matters and to have the Government's representative answer before the decision of the National Assembly. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u116	The representative of the Government may apply for a debate at any time.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u117	If I don't just follow the amendment, but I'd like to speak up and ask the basic questions about this marriage?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u118	You know everyone's even more open-minded, not just about the amendment, and I'll let you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u119	Thank you. So, for the first time, I'd like to raise the question, but it's purely out of practice. We all know that public companies, which are also registered as capital companies, have been the subject of a divisional balance sheet between individual municipalities. That individual municipalities have sold their share from this title to private individuals or any other legal person and that it is no longer necessary for these companies to own more than 50% of the local community. Is this public undertaking, then, still based on Article 36, under which you define the term public undertaking? That was the first question. Second question. Are the provisions of the Company Act still in force for companies covered by this Act? As it deals with them, it is contrary to this law, because the Company Act between forms of capital companies refers to the objective of these companies and the objective of companies registered under the Company Act is to maximise income. However, this has never been the goal and also in the law defined, this is not the aim of a public undertaking that cares for the public good, because public companies are set up with a second purpose as an economic company. And that is why their founders, according to your dictates, are the authorities, and in reality they are the local communities or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the state. From this title, I am interested in the third question below. What about possible loss? Does the provisions of the Company Act, i.e. the loss on the basis of securities or market share, apply to undertakings in this list or law, or on the basis of a law on public companies, public undertakings where the municipal local budget is subject to a loss? Because the fact is that when we have amphibians in the system - that is, today you are a law-abiding amphibian, instead of giving a strict ban on duplication, one company can provide its services under a law on companies or a roof law on public enterprises. And then there's the fourth question, the fifth question in this title. What will happen to the public interest on the basis of the participating capital buying securities from individual local communities? Is that going to happen? Because the fact is that today and in the last few years this has been happening within our country. If we look at the equity book, we see that the equity structure of public companies is divided into, I don't know, 1,000, 1,500 people. Will it still be a public company? I would ask further if you could answer these questions. And once again, please answer me. And if you can also tell me that if you realize that the law is bad and that today the National Assembly must accept it solely because the Republic of Slovenia would not be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr. Lavrich, you can answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u121	The law is without prejudice to the Law on Public Economics, as the bill does not repeal other laws. The terms in this law are taken from the directive and in essence the reminder relates directly to the inadequacy of Slovenian terminology. That is said, in fact, we must implement this directive, but in fact because of the need for records. However, the public company carries out its public service because it has public authority, as it has done before. In general, why is there such an urgency? I told you at the beginning. For the previous directive, which we were all convinced of, including the previous government and the current government, that we have implemented it satisfactorily, then the Commission found that we are not. And we've had these procedures and now we've actually come to this situation where we're all in. In the meantime, since we have not implemented these old directives in the view of the Commission, that is the opinion of the Commission, a new directive has already been made. And then it seemed reckless to us at that moment to adopt the actual old directive, knowing that a new directive would be adopted within a few months. That is why we have waited for this directive to be adopted. And that is how we are now in this ungrateful situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u122	Thank you. I'm opening an application for discussion. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u123	I think it would be more fair to you, to yourself and, above all, to the National Assembly to answer that you had no idea what I asked you. That would be the only fair thing we could do in a given situation. You did not answer either one question, but you deceived the National Assembly when you said that this law did not affect the scope of public enterprise legislation. According to my assessment, to humiliate the National Assembly so much that you do not say that this law substantially interferes with the roofing law that sets up companies, on the one hand, look, you are sneezing me and I can see in my eyes whether you do not know or that you are bluffing at this point. [[...]] This law defines public companies which have a capital company as their final destination. We have these in our country at the local level and the state level of the "little sea". I'll only choose a Maribor company. Public company Nigrad d.d And such companies are subject to this law. And if the representative of the Government now says that such a law does not affect the Law on Economic Companies, which also has a d.d. in the provision of the capital form. or d.o.b. or d.o.o. Or any other form of organization, then you don't deserve to be in the Ministry of Finance or the concierge. And whoever says this law doesn't affect public companies, I'm sorry, then you haven't even looked at this law. At least admit you don't know what kind of law you're going to propose.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-01-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u124	Mr. Pache, please. Choose your words. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 15. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 45 votes against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This concludes the second reading of the draft law in the context of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 15 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? [[No, no, ……]] Then I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 9. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the draft law on optional coins. On Wednesday 30 May 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been adopted to the draft law, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to a decision on a proposal for a law. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 4. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 28th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and thank you for your participation and cooperation!
