ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 24th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, only Bevk from 3 p.m., Matjaž Han from 13 p.m., Franz Jazbec for the beginning of the meeting, Franz Kangler and Martin Mikolič until 3 p.m. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - To defend the proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Animals. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Dr. Vida Čadonic Špelič, please, you have the floor. You can speak from behind the phone, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members, distinguished President of the National Assembly! Welcomed very much on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. As announced by Mr President, you have before you a proposal to amend the Animal Protection Act. As you already know, the basic law on the protection of animals in the Republic of Slovenia already exists and was adopted in 1998. During last year, the government prepared certain changes that mainly affect the field of the regulation of dangerous dogs. In fact, this area has not been regulated in the law so far, especially the competent service, that is, the Veterinary Inspection, had no opportunity to take the dog if it caused serious injury in humans or in other animals. Therefore, in this area we have prepared the first definition of a dangerous dog, at the same time the definition of another dangerous animal. Very restrictive, we have worked preventively in this direction to prescribe that dogs should be led on a string in public places, i.e. on public surfaces. If they will, and I'm sure most dog owners will take this into account, it will no longer be possible for dogs to interfere with the smooth movement of children and others in the park. If a dog causes any injury, regardless of its weight, it is already considered a dangerous dog and the owner must lead in addition to being on the rope, including with the tip. However, if a dog harms a man or an animal so badly that it causes serious bodily harm or, God forbid, even death, after a certain period of observation due to the exclusion of rabies, an official veterinarian may also order its execution, which is not possible in the present law. In view of the severity of the infringements, we have also stepped up transgressions or fines. We have also partially intervened in the field of animal experiments, following a new programme or animal protection action plan prepared by the European Commission for 2006-2010 and preparing a new directive in this area, because it is necessary to say that the Directive on animal testing or protection is 20 years old, since 1986. This new directive is now in preparation, which has already begun. This directive will be taken seriously by the German Presidency. It is likely that this directive will also be addressed by the Slovenian Presidency or that this directive will even be adopted under our Presidency. On behalf of the Government, I propose that you consider this law and also adopt it. I'm here for all your questions and explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u3	Thank you, Director General of the Veterinary Administration. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mrs Marjetko Uhan, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! At its 19th meeting, on 11 January, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the draft Act amending and supplementing the Act on the protection of animals submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption after a reduced procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food participated in the work of the Committee, the Legislative and Legal Service, the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber and the Union of Farmers of Slovenia. The Committee was given a written opinion on the Law and Law Service, opinion of Velenje, Maribor, Škocjan, in particular concerning shelters and dogs. The Committee also received comments from the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology of the University of Ljubljana on animal experiments. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the proposed text or legislation. Then followed by a presentation of the new law by the Ministry. The representative of the Ministry explained the novelties of the law: there is a clearer responsibility of dog owners for the consequences caused by their dogs with bites, regardless of the dog breed; there is a greater prevention against dog bites with an additional obligation of dog owners; procedures will be ensured as quickly as possible in case of suspicion of causing a particular serious injury or death of a human being and so on. The debate at the meeting of the Committee was solely on the proposals for amendments by Dr Mark Pavliha, who proposed in particular the deletion of all articles relating to dogs. In addition, a proposal for an amendment to Article 4 proposed to prohibit the use of wild animals in circuses and travelling menagerie. The debate also took place on Article 14 or on the amendment proposal to Article 14, namely, the amendment's amendment proposed that experiments on live animals should also be allowed for students of biology, pharmacology and zoo techniques, in addition to the proposed trials for vet students and medicine. The government objected. The Committee on the proposed amendments was not adopted by Dr Pavliha. It has adopted amendments to Articles 3, 8, 9, 18, 24 and 28, in particular to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. Finally, the Committee voted on all the articles together and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr Marko Pavliha will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Madam Director with her team, dear colleagues and colleagues! Good morning. Unfortunately, we cannot support the present novel of the Animal Protection Act in our House of Representatives, because this time the VURS has really lost its course. Angry dogs will continue to bark and bite. Sometimes wild animals will continue to suffer in circuses and menagerie and the political caravan will apparently go on. It's nothing to me. It's less to us. Our comments relate mainly to three sets of issues. Next. The first set of issues is the issue of responsibility for the treatment of dogs and the treatment of dangerous dogs. As you may recall, our colleague Borut Saiovic, who was a veteran master, had already introduced a very complex and complete law of the 32 articles, which should have fully regulated this issue. It was said that his marriage was general, inappropriate, and there were some such adjectives. Are you saying that this is now fully and accurately arranged in several articles of the present novel? I don't think so. I believe that it is necessary to reconsider the fact that his marriage is awakened and that this issue is resolved so that no one else will be harmed. We know how different pit bulls and other breeds break apart and threaten us more and more at every turn. Another issue concerns animal trials. Of course, these attempts should be limited to the minimum possible extent and monitored. And that's how it's always been. But interfering with academic freedom, the freedom of individual colleges and universities, of course, is unacceptable. And to limit this kind of experiment only to veterinarians and doctors is so much more unheard of. What about psychologists, biologists, pharmacists, zootechnics, and we could list them? This was pointed out by the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology, including the agri-land chamber, but the proposer was not a mew. You know, sometimes I feel like it's happening to a professional, just like it does to the beans. When she goes through political residences, her scent changes a little bit. And the third set of questions concerns wild animals used in circuses and menagerie. Someone might ask themselves, "Yes, what on earth is our fellow Member now dealing with this issue?" But when I looked at all those videos of what they do with animals, then they're doing for us, for our pleasure, stupid tricks to encourage them and use fires, electric cables, pointed rods, and they could list them, then it gets bad for a man if he doesn't cry. This type of use of wild animals has been banned in Austria, banned in Sweden, in many regions, cities and so on. But we do, keep going. On the one hand, we limit attempts under the declared pretense of humane treatment to animals, and on the other hand, we allow such use, not use, but abuse. Let us reconsider in order to take our amendments into account. And you know, after two and a half years, it's still not clear to me, but maybe it comes from my naive political belief, why it's always so that when the opposition proposes something, the coalition automatically rejects it. I know it used to be like that. But is it right if our amendments are truly well-intentioned? Is it really the essence of politics to win or to raise political points for the next elections? Is it not our task, regardless of whether we work for all humans and in our case also for animals? I don't know. I'm still optimistic, but I still believe that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u8	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the animal protection law provides slightly clearer provisions on the liability of dog owners for the consequences caused by their dogs with bites, regardless of the dog breed. With regard to dangerous dogs, we find that the law states that they must be equipped with clues and on a leash in public places. This, after recent events, is somehow the answer to this issue, but we agree, is still not sufficiently completed and we should take more time and space in the texts, both in this and possibly in some other laws that have been in the procedure. Unfortunately, we note that the Government additionally imposes liability on the municipalities for an abandoned animal and increases the costs for the holders of a protected animal, since the law provides that the holder of the shelter or the municipality shall bear the costs for an animal whose guardian is not known. The municipalities that responded to the proposal of this Act also point to the very high costs in the shelters, the impeding of the introduction of a fee for the possession of a dog, the failure to implement as soon as possible the chipping of veterinary organisations and also the recording of dogs, because it is just the recording of dogs and owners that the municipalities need if they wish to implement the provisions of this Act successfully. For once, this has not been adequately regulated, indicating that we will have to work harder in this area in the future. We are surprised, however, that the drafter has not aligned the text of the law with university and other educational institutions, since in this law it is prohibited to carry out tests on animals for educational purposes. Only medical and veterinary education will be allowed. In biology, pharmacists, zootechnicians, we can talk about discrimination, which we are somewhat surprised that this law has not been harmonised in this area. It is also surprising that the opinion of the Section for the Protection of Animals is not taken into account. Nor is there a basis for such restrictions in the European directives allowing for attempts to educate and train certain professional profiles. In the Social Democrats Group, we are therefore asking whether this means that in future our students will have to go abroad to study with other colleagues in those countries of the European Union that we want to compare with, that is, the most developed countries. If our staff want to follow all this trend and this knowledge, they will obviously have to educate outside our university capacities, which is certainly not good. We therefore believe that the applicant should make a real effort to comply with all interested parties before introducing the law into the procedure. While we will not fully oppose the law, it brings some improvements, as I said, in the area of liability of dog owners. But surely there are some tasks that need to be completed in the future, and let us hope that this will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Aloise Sok will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u10	Honourable Secretary of State with fellow Members, Honourable President, Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! In Novi Slovenija we will support the changes to this law. I must say that we have already discussed the same content as this law in the National Assembly on this subject, namely the proposal proposed in one part by our fellow Members of the Magi. Savoice. That proposal was, in fact, a good proposal, by having one problem embedded, defining dogs for those breeds that are dangerous and for other breeds. And this proposal raises the question of how we are actually going to identify belt purity and how law in practice would pose many problems. That is why in New Slovenia we are the then proposed mag. The Saivica rejected and supported the proposal prepared by the Government. The proposal that we have before us defines all breeds of dogs as dangerous. And in fact it is also so that all dogs can be potentially dangerous, as we also know from practice that the dog repeatedly falls the owner, is said to be the one that provides it every day, or the nearest one that should in some way be recognized as its custodians. So this is a significant step forward in this law. Indeed, under this law, it will be possible for dogs that cause serious bodily harm or even death - even such cases have already been, if not with us and in some other European countries - to be able to kill such a dog is said to be euthanasia, harmlessly removed. While dogs that cause multiple injuries are said to bite several times, they need to be socialised in some way. This means that their owners will have to be socialized through the rule of law, because I say they are not dangerous dogs, but they are, above all, dangerous owners who own such dogs. As far as the provisions concerning the treatment of abandoned animals are concerned, this law is in fact the continuation of the legislation already adopted. And this is that local communities have to take care of abandoned dogs. This law means only progress in this direction, that dogs will need to be more strictly marked, monitored and then transmitted to the municipalities information about dog owners by veterinary organisations doing so. The municipality will then be able to present an account for such protection to the owners of the animals. The law also speaks of the transport of animals, it is said, on transport, but let me say that transport is in fact regulated throughout the European Community in the same way and that Slovenia is implementing this matter in the same way as it is regulated in the rules of the European Community. As for the two issues that have arisen, such as experiments on living animals, this law is indeed quite restrictive in this segment. It provides that only physicians and veterinarians may carry out experiments on live animals. When we have examined comparable solutions in some other European Union Member States, we have seen that this matter is also somewhat broader in scope and, as regards New Slovenia, we will propose that if educational institutions, including others, have attempts on living animals in their educational plans to regulate the legal matter properly, the law should be adapted accordingly. As long as they don't have it written down, of course, you could say that if they do, then they do it beyond the legal regulations. As far as the ban on animals in circuses is concerned, such a ban on Slovenia would not help animals, because in fact all circuses with animals come from other countries and the solution itself could possibly only mean that the lipicans should also be banned. You know, Mr. Pavliha, you also need to learn lipicance in a certain way. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] You know how it goes. [[...]] We will certainly support this change of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u12	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, distinguished representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that the proposal for a law that we are considering is very necessary due to the additional rights of animal protection, especially due to the provisions that have been lacking in the current law, this is the procedure for the seizure and eventual execution of dangerous dogs that can or cause death, especially serious bodily harm to humans, and the treatment of such dangerous dogs. We support the purpose of complementing and amending the need to harmonise certain definitions of the Veterinary Criteria Act, the provisions on the transport of animals and animal trials in accordance with European Union rules, and to complement the chapter on the transport of animals and animal trials. The present Animal Protection Act, however, regulates which animals are considered to be dangerous and the duties to be provided by the keepers of such animals in relation to dangerous animals. However, the law has not regulated certain procedures, so we agree that the procedures for the collection and eventual execution of dangerous dogs that may cause death or particularly serious harm to humans must be regulated, and the treatment of such dangerous dogs. It is also necessary to regulate procedures concerning dangerous dogs, both in terms of physical protection, schooling obligations and procedures relating to the eventual execution of these dogs. At the same time, criminal provisions are in line with the provisions of the Offences Act. We have already warned about such necessary changes in the Slovenian People's Party's Group before the time at the round table in Ljubljana. At that time there was a terrible attack on young Tržićan, who suffered permanent injuries while walking through Ljubljana because he was brutally and violently attacked by two dangerous dogs and permanently injured by them. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also believe that it is necessary to consider the burden imposed by law on the municipalities. We believe, like many mayors, that obligations and tasks are already imposed on the municipalities by the current law, and that the State has not provided additional funds. This change of law only confirms this, although some congregations have already provided a shelter, in accordance with the law adopted in 1999 and many congregations have not yet fulfilled these obligations. The municipalities that have the prescribed places in the shelters have the costs not only of rent but also of providing for the animals that have been installed, both dogs and cats. It is also known that animals are deliberately abandoned in a specific area in a particular municipality known to have a regulated environment with a safe haven. The question is also raised why some municipalities cannot obtain data on dog owners on the basis of which they could regulate the payment of annual animal owners’ competences in their decisions, and these funds would be intended for the maintenance and provision of shelter funds. The area of treatment of dangerous animals, in particular dogs, should be addressed and specifically defined in this law primarily to determine the responsibility of dog owners causing death or particularly serious harm to humans, and the treatment of these dogs. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that there are differences between rural and urban life, between the way dogs are treated in the city and in the countryside. It is understandable that the owner of a dog in a public place must lead the dog on a rope and separate or separate such requirements from the rural situation and regulation more meaningfully than is now the case in the proposed law. For example, on a lonely farm, it is probably more reasonable that a dog, especially a guard, is released or can carry out its duties as a keeper of the property, so in our opinion it would be sufficient already to require the establishment of a warning board especially where large farms are located and where they are not specifically fenced by fences. We also believe in the parliamentary group that the proposal of the Faculty of Agricultural and Economics and Biotechnical Experts on trials should be considered in the future. Nevertheless, the Slovenian People's Party's Group will also support the bill under consideration because it brings some positive changes in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! While the current Animal Protection Act defines which animals are considered to be dangerous and also the obligations to be provided by animal owners or guardians in this regard, the law does not provide for procedures for the recovery and execution of dangerous dogs that cause, and treatment of, particularly serious bodily harm or death of humans. Following last year's bloodbath attack by the three bullmastiffs and the consequences of this attack, it became clear that we do not have sufficient legal action in such cases. This gap will be filled with the adoption of the proposed law, which we support in the DeSUS Group of Members, because it clearly sets out the responsibility of dog owners for the consequences caused by their animals with a bite, regardless of the breed. We estimate that the proposal also adequately regulates the speed of procedures in such cases and the handling of dangerous dogs, and therefore we do not consider it necessary to have a separate law governing this area as proposed in the amendment. Although we fully support the proposed solutions for dealing with dangerous dogs, we support the proposed law as a whole with considerable restraint, as we believe that the proposed regulation relating to animal trials should be considered more thoroughly. Following current arrangements, they can be carried out at universities, universities, scientific research institutes and clinical institutions, which educate biologists, pharmacists, veterinarians, doctors, zootechnics and related professions only if organisations are registered for experimentation and have the appropriate staff, equipment and premises. However, according to the proposal, experiments should only be possible in the education of doctors and veterinarians. Members of the DeSUS are of the opinion that the opinion of the professional public in the drafting of these provisions has not been sufficiently taken into account, as the expert's attempts to test animals in educational institutions have been made by the experts in other countries. Since there are controversial provisions for the education of future Slovenian experts, who, according to our assessment, should be given the opportunity to obtain work and the necessary licences also outside the borders of Slovenia, we are actually surprised that the Ministry of Higher Education has not given any opinion on these provisions. It is also worth considering that, at the expense of the proposed provisions on animal experiments, the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine is expected to make a great deal of money because it should be paid by other educational institutions for each course, for education, for animal exercises, for a quite nice amount of euro. Although DeSUS Members are detained regarding the proposed arrangements for animal trials, we will support the proposed law, as we believe that it is imperative to regulate the area of dealing with dangerous dogs, whose solutions are appropriate according to our assessment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you. Ms Maria Possonec will present the position of the delegation of the national community. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! The draft law will align the definitions with the Veterinary Criteria Act to complement the chapters on the transport of animals and animal trials and regulate the procedures for dangerous dogs and comply with the Offences Act. It will be clearer to determine the liability of dog owners for the consequences caused by their dogs with a bite regardless of the dog breed. There will be increased prevention against dog bites. An additional obligation has been introduced for dog owners to have dogs on the leash in public places and dangerous dogs must also be equipped with a bargaining chip. However, in the event of a re-bite of a dangerous dog, the obligation to train a dangerous dog has been imposed. It is also intended to ensure that procedures are carried out as quickly as possible in the event of a suspicion of causing a particular serious injury or death of a person. These arrests are the removal of a dog, the installation of an isolation unit, the execution of a dog, a shorter time limit for the complaint than the general rules. I would point out, however, that the proposal for a law is very rare when it comes to regulating the transport of animals. In doing so, I refer mainly to the necessary care of animals during transport with food and drinking water. The transport of sick animals is also poorly regulated. For them, it's too long for the first slaughterhouse. I would like to point out that your humanity has been well looked after in animal care, for the earth is not meant only for humans. There are animals living with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Milenko Ziherl will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! The proposal for a law is necessary due to additional animal protection rules, in order to harmonise certain definitions, to supplement the chapter on animal transport and animal testing. It further defines the treatment of dangerous animals. It prescribes the education, seizure and isolation or even the execution of a dog that has caused dangerous bodily harm or even death. The draft law aligns definitions with the veterinary compliance law and the provisions on animal transport and testing with those of the European Union. The law implements the following objectives and principles: clear liability of dog owners for the consequences caused by dogs, regardless of the breed of dogs, to increase prevention against dog bites by additional obligation of dog owners, that dogs are at public places on leashes, while dangerous dogs carry a tipper or make compulsory dog training in the event of an attack; the rapid execution of the procedures for the removal, isolation or even the execution of a dog in the event of a serious injury or even death. The law brings the following solutions: harmonisation of definitions with the law on veterinary compliance criteria and provisions on animal transport and testing with the rules of the European Union; compliance with the provisions of the Law on Offences. From 1.1.2006, the Veterinary Compliance Criteria Act has entered into force to regulate the organisation and functioning of the Veterinary Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. The name veterinary inspector shall be issued to the official veterinarian. Determines the input of data into the VURS Central Information System. Persons under 16 years of age must obtain an unequivocal written notification of the holding of animals. The law lays down the responsibility of animal keepers and carriers. In order to comply with Directive 86/609, the European Community lays down conditions for the rearing, supply and use of experimental animals. In addition to the law of certain establishments that carry out animal experiments, the Veterinary Administration of Slovenia may grant an experiment to the operator if necessary for a single research work. The section on dangerous dogs determines the participation of organisations such as health and police, with the Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, in the event of attacks and injuries caused by a dangerous dog. The veterinary administration of the Republic of Slovenia runs the central register of dogs. Dangerous dogs are prescribed measures such as mandatory conduct on the leash, wearing a tipper, compulsory education, seizure and even execution. The amendments made by law are assessed as good and urgently necessary in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, which is why we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you, we are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be conducted on the basis of a review of the amendments of 30 January 2007. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the three amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I'm opening an application for discussion. Mr. Saiovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honors are here! Of course, there is a lot to say about the Animal Protection Act, both good and bad, but the introductory conclusion is without a doubt that the law could be significantly better than it is. We had some groundwork in past legislative initiatives, which unfortunately did not come true to a greater extent in this law. What's this all about? We're talking about the Animal Protection Act, our purpose, which we've come to, is to talk about protecting people, how we're going to protect people from aggressive animals. I listened attentively to the opinions and presentations of the groups of Members. We hear three things in particular: the law is good, we will all support it, although it is not ideal, because it introduces a talker and a leash, because it introduces compulsory education and execution. Listen, for God's sake, are these our goals? But it's nowhere, and we're always ringing in this case, and we've done nothing with this law by the bay, but we've done nothing to prevent these incidents, these negative consequences. Of course, we're going to train someone - we're going to train the owners of those dogs that have already caused incidents and problems. But we're not going to go to pre- and early school. And we should give this matter a start and an incentive in marriage. The law that we proposed in our club, with my first signature, has, of course, provocatively indicated certain breeds in which action should be taken. And these were the breeds that could cause the most severe and most consequences. Why provocative? As I was aware that the vast area of human-animal relations and cinema, we cannot solve in one step, but we need to start somewhere. Where do you want to start? Where the consequences of the injuries and bites can be the biggest and the worst. These were in these provocative breeds. Today, instead of starting a debate on how we will make people who have animals aware of how they will gain more knowledge that they will be able to handle the dog responsibly, focus on responsible ownership, we have not paid any attention to this. We are obviously waiting, and we want incidents, that there will be as many compulsory schooling as possible and as many executions as possible. I don't think that's the point of law. But as for animal trials and then other things, there will be much more to say in the following. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr. Pavlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President, again for your word. Of course, it is difficult to speak for such an expert in the present field, such as my good colleague Saiovic, but some comments, perhaps from a legal point of view. Our amendments, which were even possible at this stage with regard to open articles, are intended, for the first time, to harmonise, in particular, the European Convention for the Protection of Spinners used for experiments and other scientific purposes, and secondly, the problems of dangerous dogs or the responsibilities of the owners of these dogs. Let me just say a few more sentences about each other. Regarding the experiments, I have already said, the definition in our amendment is more precise, but unfortunately we still cannot solve the problem here on one side of limiting trials to the minimum possible and maximum-controlled limit and on the other side of leaving academic freedom. It's probably too late now, but I'm afraid we'll be rereading here tomorrow's letter from the Biotechnical Faculty, we've already received it several times, and of course we've also listened to the second section of the Agricultural-Country Chamber, which tells us that it's unjustifiable to limit trials, of course those that exist at the minimum border, to vets and doctors. I was myself, as I have already said, on the committee for several years a member of the Senate of the University of Ljubljana and I had too many times the feeling that there were such trends coming from these circles, as much as possible to have a bite of my own. And we all know why, because there's money here too. Therefore, reconsider and consider other scientific branches, from psychologists, pharmacists, zootechnicians, biologists and could also be listed. Unfortunately, it is no longer possible to talk about the use of wild animals in circuses. Allow me, President, just one brief discussion, because otherwise I do not have the opportunity to replicate my very own colleague Sok. I am immediately in favour of preventing such use or abuse in the use of lipicans if they happen to them in the same way as they do with wild animals. Look at the footage, and you're gonna be really sick at heart if it's not too bad. And the Lipicans were, in my opinion, hundreds of years ago free living animals, but today they are more like domestic animals than dogs, cats and others, which I hope most of us raise in a beautiful way, with kindness, with rewards, but not in the cruel way that happens in circuses and elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr. Juban, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We rarely adopt a law that has such support in the coalition, especially in the opposition or that it has no support. Three areas have been processed in this law, including dangerous dogs, animal trials, and more. And if we were to exclude from this law that part that was already more widely regulated by Comrade Saiovice with his law, where things are, you said yourself to the coalition MPs, things were well solved, and if with a little bit of obedience and cooperation the passport problem in that law were settled, those things would be better settled there. The second area that we are addressing in this Article 2 and our amendment, where we are also changing the diction of animal trials, we are assessing in the parliamentary club that this is better, and it would be wise to accept it. But this is an area that interferes with animal experiments, where we have before us a letter from the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology, which reminds us that we should not adopt the law. And the solutions that coalition Members themselves consider inappropriate or unacceptable will be a law where you do not support and support the law. And it's kind of an unusual solution. In fact, let us afford something such that institutions that have been experimenting for a long time should not understand that these would be attempts where animals would, I don't know, do something bad to not say cut off their heads, this could be very simple tender attempts, what I know, from the point of view of being, eating and anything to take away their chances when they are humane, laboratory, technically organised at the highest level. Here we are also warned by discrimination against biologists, pharmacists, psychologists, dentists and other similar professions, Slovenia will significantly move away from those countries of the European Union that can be a model for us. We believe that we are going somewhere to support the narrow interest of an individual who would like to create a monopoly in this way. And that's not supposed to happen. In doing so, let me draw attention to the same story that you have pointed out to the coalition Members that the solutions around the shelters have been passed on to the municipalities, but no funding has been transferred. What has been resolved in the past in those bad laws that the previous Government has proposed and adopted, this matter has not been resolved or is unfavorably resolved. The solutions, if we now weigh what we thought before in Saiovic's marriage, and what is here is left here is only what is bad, solutions that are bad and not good. And the Biotech School initiative is still quite a piece of work. Of course that's not gonna happen. How's the trip? There are two possibilities. To help us in the coalition not to adopt the law or to make a change immediately after the adoption of this law, which will have to resolve these matters. To do something like this to scientificly-educated institutions to take away an area that is successfully taking place is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you. Is there any other interest in the debate on Article 2 and the amendments? I'm opening the application. Mr. Saiovic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you very much. In this law and in this 2nd article, if we take it widely, it is also possible to discuss these matters again, as far as animal trials are concerned. This solution, in order to have the right to have the right to have the right to try or decide on life and death, so that it can only bind itself to veterinarians and doctors, I find simply absurd and pointless, because all other professions and all those working in this area, if they want animals and then to people indirectly, must have the right knowledge and therefore simply close the matter, is pointless. I am sure that these experiments, which I myself have experienced during my education and have seen, even when we were in high school, the first dissection of frogs and mice, showed that things were done qualitatively and professionally, especially in the way that animals were not caused any suffering and no pain. In this law we are looking for some hairy-haired solution, how to prevent torture and, say, damage to some 10, 100 or perhaps even fewer laboratory animals per day to a number of thousands, tens of thousands and more animals who die in torment every day under bicycles, but not in this and not in other laws we pay no attention. This law is also half due to the fact that we have not covered the areas of cinema and cinema in Slovenia so far, and obviously we will not cover it in the future. This is an important area for which we have had the opportunity to resolve it properly and qualitatively in this law; unfortunately, I do not know why we did not put a stop to it. Many congregations rightly complain, and I support them because this law imposes additional costs on them, but there are no final solutions. I know some shelters, and obviously in Slovenia the interest is very modest, in many of these shelters, to pick up a dog abandoned somewhere on the road, it charges the municipality to then 30 days with all the veterinary treatment and care held in the shelter, including this charge, and then on the 30th day he dies. In the meantime, we have not even tried to regulate the procedure and to bind these shelters to what they should do to achieve their goal. Their goal is not profit or execution after 30 days, but to find a good owner for an abandoned dog or cat who will have more knowledge and chances of caring for him in the rest of his life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. I would like to discuss animals in the circus, as there have also been several initiatives by e-mail to ban circuses in Slovenia. However, I am of the opinion that this would not help these animals much, since no circus is registered in Slovenia. At the same time, Slovenia is such a small market that circuses have very little time with us, and in fact nothing would help improve the lives of wild animals. There is also a comparison between the training in the circus and the training of domestic animals. For example, not just a training ride, like, with the Lipicans, I'd like to see where the horse goes in nature side by side, where it walks on its hind legs and so on. Then they're butchers. Kas is an unnatural horsewalk, they need to be further raised to do so. You all know how in the finals, the riders of these cassocks beat with whips at horses. The same method as the trainer in the circus, he achieves what he wants with the whip. Then skipping the obstacles. We've also seen videos of the horse being taught to jump. Although in nature it is his walking or his manner that he can skip obstacles, to do so at a performance, he also needs to be further trained. And these are kicks on the legs and so on. Mostly torture. Then let's say there are elephants in the circus. In the same way as working elephants in all of Indochina. Otherwise, the mahout or what is called the one who directs it most of the time directs it by massaging, with his feet under his ears, but if there is a misunderstanding, it strikes him hard with some vaccine similar to it. You could talk more, like in the circus, bears are trained. I'd probably rather be a bear in a circus than a list of 106 bears coming for a shot, et cetera. The circus, if it's a good circus, will take care of the animals. True, they will live in an unnatural environment, but at the same time they are a genetic resource. For example, circuses have tigers. Tiger is at risk in the world because of a pretty puppy because of superstition. The crushed tiger bones are in traditional Chinese medicine or even in neighbouring countries, as far as I know them. And in this way, otherwise I do not support, I realize that the life of animals in the circus is difficult, but elsewhere, they suffer in other areas of the animal. I've also seen a lot of these animal transport videos myself. Despite all the regulations, animal transport is still a major cancer wound or an open area. Like transporting horses from Poland to large slaughterhouses in Sardinia. There was almost no truck where a horse wasn't half dead or already dead, a lot of suffering. And one wonders what it's like to drive live horses from Poland to Sardinia. They could have been slaughtered in Polish slaughterhouses and then taken to Sardinia for processing. Other animals on this long journey, as already mentioned by colleague Pozsončeva, suffer mainly from lack of water during the summer months, as well as food shortages. Then there's something else about dogs. True, there are certain breeds that are more dangerous. However, it is not yet said that they are already being attacked because of their background. It is therefore necessary to welcome this solution in the law that a dog that begins to show signs of assault goes through all these procedures. A dog in public spaces on a leash, a dog that has already caused injury, gets a tipper, goes to isolation, goes to school, and in case of more serious injury than happened last year, of course there is execution. Above all, it is difficult to determine how to determine mixed breeds of dogs, how to determine whether to go to the list of dangerous dogs or not. It is therefore best that the list be kept according to events and that a theoretically unhindered gold bearer may be on this list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Pavlich, did you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Very briefly. I believe, Mr Ziherl, that it is impossible to define or divide torture into good and bad, into lawful and forbidden or for which animals are still somehow acceptable and for which they are not. Therefore, I would like to sit with you and jointly prepare a comprehensive bill prohibiting any torture of any animal, except in those areas of permitted experimentation intended primarily for human well-being, which are strictly controlled and limited. Why did our amendment limit itself to wild animals? Because wild animals, however, are in a different position than other animals. It is impossible to compare a tiger or an elephant with a horse, dog or cat. I hope we agree with that. And here, too, I am very, very doubtful whether some circuses are really better and some are worse. After all the videos I've seen, I just don't believe it anymore. What we see, if we go to the show, I don't go to the show myself, sometimes I see it on TV, there's one picture, and the other is what's going on in the back. And I simply believe in civil society, I believe in all the societies and relationships that fight animal torture by what they tell me. So let us start with small steps, start with wild animals, and then continue with others. Even in racing with horses or racing with dogs or whatever they're using, I think there's a similar argument. If an animal by whipping prepares to gallop or race or otherwise behaves abnormally, such training or behaviour should be prohibited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I'll call again, and I think this debate is going somewhere, I might say, in a strange direction. In the nature of creation, man subjugated plants and all animals. That he must act responsibly in this regard is also recorded in God’s law. And this one is embedded in the human conscience. So, how it will work, we cannot contribute anything to some of our laws, but it is a matter of education, vision and some moral-ethic principles that should actually be highlighted in the education process itself. We can also adopt such a law, but if someone does not have this conscience, he will continue to use the fact that he will not realize that animals are tortured in his conduct to experience his presence as suffering. And that happens every day. So, the vets see a lot of this, including livestock farmers and so on. There were some findings here. It is good to think differently, but to train dogs in advance before they caused any injury, of course it would be very good for the cinematologists, they would immediately perform and would be very excited. But I don't know how you can practically imagine that. Would you do some elementary schools for dogs or what and then put them in the first, second, third grade and so on? You just can't do this in practice. But you can intervene immediately in case there's an injury. For example, Austria knows very strict legislation in this area. If your dog harms someone physically, they punish you by doing everything you can for all eternity so that it doesn't happen again. And in our case, that's how we have to solve things, and we're not going to invent hot water in this area, and we're going to say, and now we're going to act preventively. But how will you prevent, for example, from continuing to be victims of wild animals? Yeah, so, I don't know when we're gonna have enough money, we're gonna protect all the roads, and then we're gonna stop every move from being wild animals, or how would we do it? It is possible to make some such proposals, but tell us how we would do this in practice, what it would look like. As long as we're not able to do this, it's still going to happen, I don't know, but I feel really bad if I run over an animal on the road, but it's inevitable, jump in front of a car, and that's it. If it's done right now, it's done, but if you hurt it, then somewhere gets dragged into what bushes and then actually suffers there, it's the same thing as it is. You're saying we didn't do anything. Of course not, a hundred more things should be done if we had the chance at this point. Once again, as far as the experiments on live animals are concerned, it is said to be a trial in which animals feel pain. When I looked at this assignment that our research center in the National Assembly did, this marriage is pretty strict. It is determined that only doctors and veterinarians, probably from some diction, are closest to these professions, that these mechanisms are best managed and well-known. I am sure that the higher education institutions will have written down in their programmes that they are doing so, and then the law will have to be adapted. I don't know how, I didn't have time. You're saying the Ministry of Higher Education didn't make any comments. I'm guessing they probably don't have this in writing and they've been doing something they don't have in their programs. I don't want to prejudge the matter, but if that's the case, then this solution is very bad. Because by trying to cause pain in living animals, I don't want to tell you what that means, but I think it's inappropriate to do so. And I wouldn't talk here about some little experiment or big experiments, it's about experiments on living animals that can cause pain. And we will not support the first amendment of the Liberal Democracy, because it says that the matter is also spreading to birth in relation to experiments. I don't know what that means. I imagine it's probably about accelerating cloning, but it's not in nature's agenda. Cloning is a human intervention. It doesn't happen in nature. In a different way, nature itself with mutations reflects these things, which a person would like to change in some way with his own intervention. And once again, if there are any higher education and scientific institutions in the plan, I will be the first to defend this, and in New Slovenia we will follow this to add other professions. But in order for anyone without this being defined somewhere to be able to perform experiments on living animals, but here, if you want to act really protectively, then we also need to regulate it legally; in order to know who is doing it, in what way and who controls it. There is a need to ensure some form of control everywhere, as scientists can often become involved in areas that are not particularly suitable to be implemented in this way. Once again, the ban on the use of animals for circus purposes would not solve anything because in Slovenia, as my colleague Ziherl said, this is not the case. However, this debate would reach very wide. I don't know, I don't know all the methods, but there's one thing I know. I know how gypsies used to learn how to dance. Very simply, they put it on the iron plate, they were burning fire and playing below, and then there was this conditional reflex called Paul's reflex, that then the bear, at every one of these voices, without having to continue doing it, began dancing. It is likely that these methods are similar and very sophisticated today because techniques have gone much further. I also see no difference in why to distinguish between wild and domestic animals. If you want to teach them, of course, the effect is the same for everyone. The pain is the same for everyone. Although animals have a much higher threshold for pain than humans, they do not experience such severe pain. So the more the nervous system develops, the more some organism perceives pain and the person is actually here among the most developed and the most experiencing pain. It's about funding. It is not true that this law would have been reexamined in this area because it had already been transferred to the congregations in previous laws. Now only the control system will be perfected, so that the congregations can look for owners. Because of the fact that animals are abandoned, of course, people always cause them, those who are their owners, they get them and have them for a while, and then they get tired and throw them away. I don't know how the veterinary service is going to move forward so that, let's say, all of these dogs, when they're old enough, they can get to a specific place and put a microchip on them, so the dog will be recognized. But these things are going this way. The new Law on Community Financing also regulates slightly differently as regards the financing of municipalities, and in this law self-financing is also better resolved, so that municipalities can also implement these things on the financial side. Finally, to identify myself to the amendments proposed by the LDS. We do not see the need for any of these amendments to be supported, because these matters are very clearly enshrined in the law and by adopting this amendment, and in particular by adopting the first amendment, they have only opened the matter up further and made it even more complicated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Homan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! We have a bill before us. I hope he's getting married tonight. I see myself in here, the law regulates some matter on the issue of these dogs. We all say "problem breeds." I don't agree with that. I don't think breeds are problematic, they're just more trouble to raise and less difficult. Above all, I see here that there are troublesome owners in education. The owners are those who work so-called problem dogs. This law is largely for all dog owners, I can say 90%, immaterial, because I believe that in Slovenia 90% or more of the population is well cared for by their pets, especially for dogs, all cats are mentioned here, for those other percentages who treat dogs, cats or all animals badly, but this law is important and I think it is important. It's a plant for that breed that's troublesome that the dog has to be on the leash so he can't move around the park. For what is happening in practice? The owner, who's a know-it-all who doesn't need this marriage, has a dog that's already trained, drives him around the park, comes to him with a downed dog, jumps into your dog that's on the leash, and it happens -- what, an accident. If all the dogs are on the leash now, I don't think that's gonna be a problem anymore. The dog takes to school the owner who decides for a dog because he buys a dog with love because by love he raises it, he will put it himself in school, he will raise it, not by torture, not by coercion, but he will take it to school, he will reward it with praise, with kind education, and here I think the matter is solved. As far as animal torture is concerned. He's talking about it. There's a circus talk in here. I think that if the circuses were banned, they wouldn't do anything. Those two circuses coming to Slovenia, I think the kids are going to at least live to watch a tiger, an elephant, if they don't, they should also ban an animal garden. But even in the zoo, these animals are somehow, socialized, somehow raised, now or under duress or how, in those cages, they are calm, meek. If these animals behaved savagely inside, believe me, no man would go into the zoo, but they would all run out. We should then also ban the show of circuses on television, ban the show of circuses at least in European Union countries if we really want to ban this if we ban the show today or the circus in Slovenia - yes, what is to be done to neighbouring Croatia and children will watch circuses there. I think this law is perfectly fine and it regulates matters in the field of animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Article 2 states, inter alia, that the municipality is now the one that takes over the costs of virtually all of both the regulation of the shelter and the care of abandoned animals in it and has in fact escalated the will of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has already been clearly expressed in this Act in the previous term or in the previous term, namely that what the State already has to worry about regarding abandoned animals, must be hanged to the municipalities without any financial compensation. To talk about the fact that the new Law on Community Financing provides resources for this purpose is a great invention. Nowhere is it written that the State will compensate those municipalities that have set up and maintain their shelters for the high costs that this entails. It only improves the fact that the municipalities were defined as those who had to take care of the shelter, whereas they had been taken so far before that they received the compensation from the State budget for the maintenance of the shelters only by societies, and the municipalities had no right to such compensation, so far the farce was even worse at the time. But I'd say something else here. In fact, there is a great deal of talk about how the veterinary service can now collect personal data regarding the ownership of domestic animals, that this is its right, but it is not a word that the municipality can obtain such data in use. In fact, the fact is that when the municipality receives an abandoned animal, it will probably have to request in writing from the veterinary service information on who owns a dog, which is even obvious, and the municipality will not have access to the cadastral, I would say, the owners of dogs that have already been cut off, and only those dogs that do not have a chip, which means that the veterinary service and veterinary inspection have not done everything that the law imposes on them and have not determined which owners, who owns domestic animals that are not registered, who are not vaccinated, do not comply with any of the rules relating to the protection or prevention of the spread of animal diseases. I have one essential thing to say about this law. The key to preventing animal torture is also to take care of abandoned animals, but here we need to be clear that it is not just and only for human purposes and not only for the humane purposes of human society in abandoned domestic animals. This is about something more important. This is about abandoned animals, both cats and dogs, as well as other large mammals, wild animals, large mammals, reptiles, animals that emit poison, endanger the health of humanity, people, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in our particular case. That is why we need to take care of abandoned animals, not because we feel so sorry for them; because abandoned animals are potentially spreading very dangerous diseases, including man’s very dangerous diseases. In particular, the most famous is rabies, and there are many other things - we know what all cats tolerate. And what the state has to do is to record all the owners of domestic animals, make sure that all the pets, all the dogs, pardon, are open to knowing who the owner is, and that he can also be punished, unless he takes care of his pet, which is only a pet for as long as he can do so, and that he can also ensure that the cats do not breed excessively. All of this has already fallen on the shoulders of the congregations in the past, and it has not even been recorded in the law. Only the veterinary inspection and veterinary service simply avoid all these obligations, even the "chimpers" according to their own words, have tried to get rid of them and it has to be paid fat to hunt abandoned animals. Thus, congregations have had to and serve societies that hunt abandoned animals, not to mention that when you order "syntar" to hunt cats, you pay half the budget. And because I believe that this marriage does not improve the situation in this area, but it only carries the burden on someone else, officially, even in marriage, what has been done before. I'd like to say a few more words about circuses. I agree with the fact that we have no circus in Slovenia, except here, but, well, there is no real circus. However, every circus, a circus coming to Slovenia, must be authorised by the competent state authorities. And I think it's to say that the performance of animals, wild animals, who have been tamed and trained in the circus, is to compare it with the training of horses in Lipica, is depressed to me. Why? Because the resources with which the lipican is trained, or the butcher, or any already abnormally moving horse, or the stallion, or the mare or whatever it is, are completely different and, above all, significantly more humane than what they use in the training of wild animals, such as the elephants. I have to say to myself that with our legislation we cannot prevent elephants from training in Indochina, thank God, those who can with Slovenian law prevent people in Indochina from beating their elephants with some junk, as I have heard today, of course this cannot be prevented from coming to sell a commercialized dress that is inhumane, which causes animals to suffer indescribable torment - but that is not possible! So, circuses that show trained wild animals coming to Slovenia can't get access and this can be regulated by law. Do you remember what the cow was like when they wanted to come to Slovenia with bullfights? Do you remember that time? What's the difference between bullfighting and training, say, one tiger, one lion, one elephant and so on? What's the difference? None for me! The animal is tormented and I think it is entirely justified to introduce into this law also the provision that the operation of circuses showing the art or art of trained animals is prohibited. It wouldn't hurt us to say that. So I think it's deplorable to talk about this, first of all, we're talking about that our students should not be educated when they try to live animals and only some - two very important professions here in Slovenia, and all the others who supply their knowledge to these two professions do not have the right to such knowledge, but at the same time we will allow for the pure commercial reasons of animal torture to be shown to our children. That's great.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! Since I am neither a member of the College nor of the Committee on Agriculture, let me first protest the generous decisions of the College in relation to the procedures. I personally believe that this law is one of those who cannot be adopted and accepted in any way by a reduced procedure, which of course also shows the great substantive debate today, thank you, President, that you allow because I think many times what we are saying is not related to the amended articles. Unfortunately, however, since there is no other way of deciding on such procedures, this must be used. And if I mention what is being done in this law: from animal transport, in relation to dangerous animals, then the content relating to animal experiments, executions, shelters, control over the implementation of the law, it is by no means permissible to do so by means of a reduced procedure and, in particular, because, in my opinion, it is desirable to exclude another profession, except one which is collected in a very narrow circle of drafting changes to the law. There is a desire to exclude NGOs and companies from the areas covered by the law. To speak of this, and that this is also confirmed by the letter of a member of the Movement for Justice and Development addressed to Drnovšek, from which it can be clearly seen, if I understand this letter, he wrote it very well and I think that even a member of the commission preparing this law. From this letter, there is clearly a great lack of expertise in the preparation of the law. For he himself says that regulations, and speaks precisely of this law, and of these changes, that the rules are mainly written by young men without experience in the field. It is only important that the computer and English are well-trained and that their customer definition is important, which I think has nothing to do with this law, and that the practical experience of older colleagues is not taken into account. And then what happens is what's disastrous is how this gentleman evaluates this novelty of the law. The rules, however, begin to strike and break and are contradictory and then point to a whole range of matters and shortcomings in this law. I believe that today, obviously from the opinions, so I have waited so long for the coalition to back up the short-term procedure. I have to tell you that there was no opportunity for the profession to talk about this law. She could only speak after the matter had been dealt with by the Committee on Agriculture. There are absolutely no good solutions. With regard to dogs and dangerous dogs, I must say that I was deeply involved in this matter at the time, given that the marriage was made by my colleague Saiovic. I know exactly what the Minister has said to Mr Saiovic's proposal that he is flawed, that he is unprofessional, that he is weak, inappropriate, general, incomplete. This law had 32 articles, it was a law that specifically and specifically regulated this matter; but if today I look at what was amended by the proposer in this Animal Protection Act, as announced at the time, then I see that four articles have been deleted and three new articles have been added. In short, the solution found in the novel of the Law on the Protection of Animals in relation to Dangerous Dogs is truly inaccurate, unprofessional, too general and incomplete - bad. I expected really dry gold, as you promised when you rejected the proposal here in Parliament, I will say, relatively very correctly written law, which we argued may have some shortcomings that could be supplemented by amendments, but unfortunately it was not written by the right hand, but in a political sense. But what politics has to do with dangerous dogs is really interesting to me. Nothing! And I'm very disappointed in the solutions that this marriage brings, because they're really inappropriate and bad. Allow me to touch the local aspect, if I may say so, of this law; some of you have already talked about this today. Of course, the law was also prepared in this respect, unfortunately, but also in the light of the procedure itself, at an entirely inappropriate time. It is expected that the congregations will be involved in this law during the time that they were in the midst of electoral activities, a complete illusion or even a malicious one at that time. Regrettably, a number of very important laws for local communities, whether they wanted or were deliberately included in the procedure at a time when there was no real interlocutor on the part of the congregations. If the municipalities had a chance to cooperate more and they would in fact be in "full condition" - if I said under the terms - then they would have received significantly more comments on this law, as well as good proposals. Unfortunately, a whole series of things will pass, they will remain unchanged again for several years and will continue to cause great problems. I would like to draw attention to a similar story. I think today it has been said that this law will bring good solutions to the congregations. That's not true! Nothing at all! It is true that the sanctuaries were their duties, obligations and responsibilities before. The municipalities warned of their powerlessness, and unfortunately there is nothing in this law that the congregations have pointed to in the past. From the point of view of the records - you have received proposals because we have already sent them to the Ministry, that we want the issue of obtaining data on dog owners to be regulated. These data cannot be accessed by the municipality because they have the status of personal data. We can't get this information in local communities. And this law continues to leave it inconsequential. Without this information, there are no regulations governing the payment of annual animal owners fees and so on and the responsible conduct of the municipalities. If such decrees could be adopted by the municipalities - so far in the Constitutional Court, these rulings would fall in a series of attempts - and they would be given the right legal basis in this law, then the municipalities would also receive the appropriate funds, as the Law on the Financing of Communities with that formula did not bring any funds. It would have the appropriate means for responsible conduct, both in relation to shelters and other matters, for regulating parks with toilets for animals and the like. And even in my opinion, they would actually have made more responsible owners if they had introduced such fees. Unfortunately, this law will not give rise to any record or possibility of making such decisions at local level and does not bring any new solutions in this regard. I am also sorry that you have not amended Article 31. I think that the article that says that the shelters have the right and the possibility of an abandoned animal being killed after 30 days is completely incorrect. Just as my colleague described well earlier, and I'm sure he knows that, and we've experienced it in the local community, that's exactly what's going on. They do what is necessary and what is charged, and the congregation costs, at least for us, about 120,000 tolars. Then, of course, if you observe Slovenian sanctuaries, they act extremely differently. Some are very responsible and are trying to get new owners, within that short 30-day deadline for fully healthy puppies and kittens, but some do absolutely nothing, but they can't wait for the 30th day to come and the animal to die. These are the information I know. I don't want to put all the shelters in the same basket. If we look at our region, the Ljubljana region, here they try, there are ads, there are photos, there are magazines, there is a search path and there is no good solution to this in 30 days then it dies. Other countries do not have such solutions, although I know that in Italy animals can be in such a shelter even to the death, and I think it is extremely economical without compassion for these animals. As far as the law is concerned, from the point of view of dangerous dogs; I think that the law was significantly better because it was based on responsible ownership; on responsible ownership; on licensing. For it is clear to all that man maketh a dangerous dog, the owner shall make it. And unfortunately in Slovenia we have many responsible owners, but also many extremely irresponsible ones, who come up with very dangerous kinds of dogs, dangerous relatives, and then people see how they don't actually know how to treat them, they're not adults. It's not that someone wants to get even in various cinematic societies, but it's about ownership. In Slovenia, many think that an animal is a toy that you buy today, you have it, just like you can buy everything, and tomorrow you throw away and nothing. That's why I've talked before about fees, not least like we have to take care of old cars, but now we've found ways, I think that owners should be responsible for their animals for their animals for the rest of their lives, but not that they will eventually become a municipal expense and a problem, which I think is a completely inappropriate solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! To be honest, I haven't really dealt with the issue of this law, but it has raised a whole range of issues that we haven't even been aware of. For example, here's the question of experiments on living animals, then here's the question of animal torture, the issue of circuses and so on, here's the question of training, for example, dogs. What are human methods of education, what are inhumane methods of training dogs - so I would open up another question here, namely, the question of trained dogs looking for drugs throughout the world looking for drugs at airports and so on. The fact is, they make a dog a drug addict, so they can search for drugs so successfully and inflamedly. And just the last time on TV, we were able to monitor a contribution about a Colombian Labrador who is so successful in the search for drugs and has also sought them out that even the Colombian mafia has awarded it. However, the same contribution also stated that the working time of such a dog lasted only seven years and that it was likely that after these few years that dog or dog would retire. Thus, the question is how human and inhuman methods of training dogs are actually used. And, say, in Colombia, there are 700 of these, I'd say, drug addicts who are so successful at finding drugs for the police. So here, this law actually opens up a whole series of questions - that's all I wanted to point out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u41	Thank you. Since there is still an interest after the additional debate, I am opening an application for a debate on Article 2 and the three amendments of the LDS Group to this Article. Here you go, Mr. Mogo. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u42	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I didn't mean to get in touch with this subject, but it's the strangest ways of gentlemen, and even more so the politics. We are now witnessing that despite our promises on Sundays, we have an open store, but let's leave these things at the side. I think my fellow Member, Mr Sok, has debated very well. I fully agree with him that criminal policy can also be a educational measure. And if the penal policy is designed to really hit that in the pocket or maybe some other prison sentence, so that we can solve a lot of things, more than by trying to prevent this material by trying to get all the puppies or dangerous animals into such a state to be able to interact with us. On the other hand, I'd try to argue with him on the following matter. For this behavior that we have today, he talked a lot about ethics and morality, and he said, "It is in the nature of creation that man has subjected himself to plants and animals." He was referring to God. That's where the problem comes in. Whether God is the cause that we imagine created us, or whether we have created God in our heads. I am, in view of the fact that we have free will, convinced that we have created a God and somehow imagined it in our own visions as a cause, so different people have different gods on earth. And if we go after how we interpret these laws of God that give us from a moral point of view the right to act, I know from one faith the law of God that says, "Don't kill." It doesn't say anywhere that you don't just kill a man. It says, "Don't kill. But those of this faith kill animals in mass at great feasts, while some other religion says, "Don't kill." And the Buddhist priest, when they dig the foundations for their Buddhist sanctuaries, digs so that the worms that are in this earth are unharmed dug up and put them forward because they believe in incarnation and also think that there is an ancestor in this worm. These are the differences. But it's certainly natural laws that give us the existence and possibility of being on this planet. And we give these laws of nature human law. And I can no longer imagine civilizations without the written laws we live by. If we were to erase the whole marriage and live without the law, we'd go back to being a rascal. We live on the final planet, in the final system. And for survival of living beings, according to the cycle, the cycle of killing is built in if we want to survive. In fact, we - some say, depending on the philosophical position whether the plant is a living being or not - but in fact only dead things surround us to survive. If we look into this room, the flags were part of the plants - dead, the wood was part of the plants - dead, the shoes on the legs were part of the animals - dead. When I go to the dining room, I'm going to eat nature again, which was once alive, and now she's dead. We have to think that for a month or a year you kill and slaughter, not millions, but billions of animals to survive and work. And if we want to live somehow on this planet, then we should somehow get to the philosophy of the ancient peoples, and take the Indians whose culture has long since died out, who have talked about the need to interact with the earth. And I think that in this final planet, probably for a long time, but not in my life, we're not going to invent technology to go maybe somewhere else to feed us maybe in some other way, to get to know new worlds, we're going to have to live this planet that we have, we're not going to destroy. And the relationship to living things, to animals and to plants, is also one relation to our own existence. I think our civilization is built on threats, if we look at just how many things were involved in man, that he killed people in wars, let's say our white race, when America went to conquer, killed 70 million Indians there, according to their calculations. Let's see how many world wars there were. And it seems to me that this coexistence that we should give should be in such a way that we have more moral power in us. And the laws should be written with a greater sense of the living world that surrounds us, as we do now, when in fact -- and don't resent it -- in my mind, at least the party world, forgive the expression, "we're shooting" at each other, who will be better at it. Animals were always a good friend of man. Remember, stubborn as an ass - Partlič said that his wife once said to him "you my animal" this morning, and she commended him - to say, "good as ant" etc. I think it's impossible to describe how some people who have dogs are tied to them. When they die, some grieve even more than if they had lost a human member. And that "loyal as a dog" is not a mistake, and "if you want a friend, buy a dog," it's not made of vines. I would never disappoint you. Sometimes when you get home, your wife's happy, and your dog's always happy. And I would like to say that through this prism of some humanity, of staying, of some existence, we should also talk about this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act. And there's something else, dear colleagues and colleagues! As long as we have a relationship like this: we're up here, we can do whatever we want, we're just doing what we want to do, so that we can live the most "comet". It's not taking us anywhere. If you look at a man, if he goes into a forest, the rabbits run from him, they run from the deer, and the whole wildling runs from him. You go to the sea, you go to the coast, the fish run away, almost all living things run from us, because we don't know anything but kill them in some way. This is kind of embedded in us, but of course, in recent times this mentality has changed slightly and there are people who also think that animals are beings, who also feel something, who remember something and look at animals a little bit more equally alive and treat them with a higher dose and a measure of respect. I, Mr President, forgive you, colleagues and also you, Mr President, for using this Rules of Procedure, but I would like this debate to take place more in this spirit of co-existence. Personally, I feel that Saiov’s marriage was much more receptive to some sense of interaction with these animals than it was to this law. It's not so bad, but if we could listen to each other and really try to understand ourselves that we're not -- and now I'm going to say again, "Gods here on earth," as far as animals are concerned, then maybe we can find some better solutions than those that we're dealing with today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Homan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u44	Thanks again for saying that. I liked the debate with my colleague Mojet, I would say that everything he said was true. But I will touch myself. My colleague, Cveta, mentioned the expense for the congregations in the sense of animal shelter. Of course it's a cost, but if we think about what is a cost to our citizens, this shelter is a minimum cost. I'll tell you myself from my experience, in my previous job I worked on a gas station and I can tell you from my own experience, at least five times a year it happened that people brought in and let go of old dogs, cats, cubs - we found babies in a container. And what they'd do if we didn't have another one, take it at that point no one would want it. If I wanted to bring all the animals I found home, I have an animal garden. And thank God you have someone to call to take this animal away and we have a shelter. However, it is a expense of all, since the congregation is at its final stage the cost of all. And if we look in here at these animals and I believe there's a dog or an animal in the shelter that comes into the shelter for a certain period of time that's in there - of course, but I'm sure everyone else will take the baby. An old man, crippled or injured, but God forbid you give a faithless dog, believe me, he will not be taken by any man! At least that dog that we're going to say, "We caught that dog, three already bit him, we put him to school, now he's in the shelter, no one's coming for him!" And then we'll be happy to announce on the radio, "Come get this dog, how flute he is." There's nothing with this dog to do but kill, unfortunately, that's the facts. And don't shut your eyes here. The municipality, if it wants to take its dangerous dogs out of its territory, this law is written on her skin. Anyone who sees a dog being released, not on a leash, will be able to call a hygienist, and he'll take him to a shelter. The owner who will miss his dog, who really loves him, believe me, will immediately start a panic at the police, at the shelter - is my dog there? But he who has no interest will leave him in the shelter. The shelter will provide an opportunity for someone else to come and find this dog and adopt him. Otherwise, we'll get rid of these abandoned dogs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you. [[The ad in the hall.]] You weren't appointed, ma'am. But you can apply on another occasion. Mr. Homan, did you name her? Yes, then please, Mrs. Zalokareva, you have a chance of replicating.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. I was really mentioned, and that's very nice. I'd like to replicate and explain. I hope you don't just understand me, but others don't. Far from giving up the powers we have on behalf of the local communities. Unfortunately, this country has made up its mind and burdened itself, which I must admit is only local communities. She put her hands away herself - if I'm talking about the country imaginaryly, she's nowhere. And I didn’t want to discuss it in the sense that the congregation would not feel this responsibility. I think that the local communities have shown a lot of responsibility so far, that many have been very committed to the issues of shelters, the establishment of shelters, the search for sites, and the rest of the local communities are completely alone. No one has helped Maribor in the problems he has with the shelter, but they are very large, and many others. And in this sense, I have appealed to both countries, to the country - unfortunately, we have no one but our colleagues and colleagues there, who are somehow viewed as a country - who is fully withdrawing from this area, and to the owners. What I want to stress is that in this country, the owners of animals do not seem to be responsible enough in many cases. And in this sense, it seemed to me that the local communities had largely reacted correctly, but I lack responsibility in these two segments - responsibility that is not only material but also responsibility in terms of the true upbringing of animals, which I spoke of in connection with dangerous dogs. Besides, it seems to me that we are of the same opinion that Article 31 concerning shelters is not good enough to destroy animals within 30 days. There's a lot of cute animals who might find the owner on the 32nd day. And that stiffness, I think, would make sense in this law to correct. Once again, I congratulate my colleague Mohet on the fact that I think this was one of the best debates I have heard in this House, and I am sorry that we are so few of us here, because we speak too few times as my colleague has said today.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thanks again. First, let me shed another light on how this law came about. It was mentioned that a law on dangerous dogs had already been prepared. At that time, we explained what shortcomings that proposal had. Above all, it has been problematic already to declare certain breeds of dogs dangerous and to discriminate as such. But then we also said that there were still some aspects to the new Animal Protection Act; and this was also mentioned today - compliance with veterinary rules, then animal transport and animal experiments. And maybe there's something else about animal trials. The global and European trend is that these attempts will be minimised as much as possible. I'm familiar with the chemicals law, where animal experiments are. And that means that if you register a new chemical, you also test animal damage. This would mean now in Europe 27 times to repeat this experiment, for every country where this chemical is put on the market, but it is long established that you can refer to the result of a laboratory that has the status of a laboratory with good practice. This means, let's say that in Germany, this chemical is placed on the market, it has a known result on harmfulness, and on the death dose, 50, and similar data, which are comparable and then someone in Slovenia, Italy, France refers to this data that this laboratory, which has the status of good practice, has put out. Then there's another case, from work in Terme. Mineral fibres, mineral wool had to obtain the Ral certificate. That means the fibers are biodegradable. Therefore, for the first time, the powder of these fibres was to be infected or inserted into the soft tissue of some 50 rats, who were killed every day by two and two and then watched as it broke down. In order to maintain this Ral certificate, it is necessary to repeat the analysis twice a year, but it is no longer necessary to kill living beings as it can be estimated from the equation of ingredients and from similar simulated experiments on living tissues, on serums, on blood whether it is within these limits or not. And it's this law that says that, in fact, experiments on living animals have been very complicated. This means that all interested parties will start looking for alternatives, or in some near future, when this matter is somewhat cleared, it can still be added to this list or legal arrangements, so that for some experiments that are still necessary, it can exceptionally be approved and made available to these institutions, they are still working on living animals. In the end, however, I would express some dissatisfaction with the fact that this house is a circus, because first of all I miss who the trainer is, I don't see him. Although sometimes it would be good to have a whip, there may be other circuses in the country. One just concluded, I think they even had to call for the help of a cardiologist or a heart surgeon to get rid of him, somewhere on the Coast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Juban has the word. He's not here. Mr. Pavlich. Not at all. Mr. Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I must say that, in fact, there is no great benefit from such philosophies as has been developed here by Mr Moge. We are just before we have to accept a certain legal solution. In fact, the only thing I remembered from his performance was that people invented gods, and that's why this is the situation because everyone made their own. And he's answering his own. As for this law and the law we have already discussed, I am convinced that this law is much more appropriate in dealing with dangerous dogs. And we're mostly talking about dogs in this law. Dogs that pose a threat to other people. In fact, the law, which you say in the opposition, submitted by Comrade Saiovice, was better, was conceived entirely differently. He went from the point of view that certain breeds of dogs were dangerous and must be banned as such. This law treats this matter quite differently and says that all dogs are potentially dangerous. And practice also proves that all dogs are dangerous and that you cannot separate from each other on the basis of the passport itself. However, as far as passports are concerned, it is also necessary to know that in order to prove a breed, you must then have a relative at your disposal, so to speak. And in fact, then it comes down to the fact that cinematic society, etc., also needs to be involved and also act legally on this path. And such proof, after proving whether a breed is pure or is a cross, would, of course, pose major difficulties in implementing it in practice. Big trouble. This solution, however, is very simple. If there is a serious injury, then it shall be done in accordance with this law without any compensation, etc., without any judicial proceedings, such a dog may be used, I will use that word, liquidated. And it is important to realize in all this that when we talk about animals, we talk about things. Animals are not human, but animals are legally considered as things. Even when you have 30 days, Mrs Zalokar, in the shelter, on the one hand, you attack that the municipalities are paying for it to cost, on the other hand you're setting an example, and I think you said Italy and you're saying that animals in the shelter could live for the rest of their lives. How do you imagine that? Animals also grow old, and animals with age get sick. An animal that's old, torments, lives no longer, but struggles. You just have to approach painless execution, euthanasia. And such debates, otherwise, can be associated with civil institutions and associations on this side and thus discuss and write letters in Slovenia and so on, but this has nothing to do with reality, with what we must decide as politicians, which we must take into account all aspects. On something like that, you have to put some hands on it. I think a month is enough time. If an animal is missing or wants an animal, then 30 days is enough to burden the congregation. But you would still fuck this up, even through and publish adverts, make calls, cause costs and hang, I don't know, at the same time, the municipality wouldn't pay, let the state pay and so on. In these matters, let us be consistent and realistic about what makes sense and what does not make sense, at least for those who care about these matters, these debates are very much appreciated. They'd take care of these animals in the shelter. We could make every animal in the shelter have their own guardian, of course, if we provide them with money, they'll do whatever it takes, but it doesn't make sense. That's not the point. The aim is, and here in one debate, I agree with Mrs Pecanovo that such an animal is provided, that it is also removed as a potential carrier of infectious diseases, and that if it does not get its custodian, then, in accordance with the law, such an animal or the law also effectively removes it. Once again, animals are things, and they also melt with them, just like with the thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I see that Comrade Sok has learned nothing from a very good debate that his colleague Moge has had, unfortunately. That's your level, and that's your range. You say, legally, animals are for you things. For me, animals are not things. And this is where we split up and we can debate for two more days, but we're not coming together. And, of course, you can't talk about any duality, unfortunately. I personally think, here I am in my position that 30 days is absolutely too short - not to mention dangerous dogs, but those who have been rejected, who have been found, have nothing wrong with them, who may be old year or less - to euthanize them, without being in the shelter, after being provided, well earned at the expense of the congregation, no matter how hard they tried. And we have such shelters in Slovenia, which do nothing to find owners. And that's what I was talking about. Only about the responsible shelter that is trying to find the discarded animals of the new owner, but not only to "cassify" for vaccination, for the purpose of providing the animals, but then nothing matters to them. On the other hand, you're a superhuman almost, and that's why animals only mean things to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you. There's no replica to the replica. Mr. Saiovic, you have the floor. You don't have much time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. There is not much time left, so very briefly. We have heard many times today that we must take a solution even though it is incomplete. This is the problem of our Parliament, we are quickly adopting laws that could be significantly better. And the essence of this marriage is only going to be three, four lines. In a bad fast marriage, we put animals in front of people, baits and executions, we gave priority to education and education, we confused the notions of circus and zoo, some of the shelters became a waiting room and a waiting room to die, and the municipalities [[...]] [[End of discussion.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you. In view of the interest shown in the debate, I am reopening the possibility of applying for a debate on Article 2 and the three amendments of the LDS Group of Members. Mrs. Pecanova, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u56	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that I have not been given the option of replica, I will nevertheless replicate Mr Ziherl in my debate. I must say, I find it extremely distasteful that way to react to a joke. You all knew it was a joke, but unless we're in China, it's three days earlier that someone has a joke to tell. However, I would like to say that in this way to explain that in the congregation from which I come from, I could also react by saying that this circus was created under the patronage of a party belonging to Mr. Ziherl, and that perhaps he, as an important member of this party, could have done something to stop this circus precisely because they would have removed the patronage of the strange people who appeared in this congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u57	Thank you. Is there any other interest? Clearly, there is no longer any interest in the debate on Article 2, so I am concluding and putting it to the debate on Article 3 of the law and on the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 3 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members, of course who still has time available. Mr. Saiovic, I'm afraid you don't have a chance. Nobody wants to talk anymore. I'm also asking a representative of the government. Here you go, Dr. Chadonik Špelič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I would like to answer a few questions or arguments that have arisen in the debate of honourable Members and Members, in particular with regard to attempts to avoid bitter taste. At this time in our country, it is allowed under very strict conditions to do experiments for scientific research purposes. They can be done by various professions, in addition to the already mentioned veterinarians and students or graduates of the Faculty of Medicine, zootechnics, biologists, pharmacists and even some other professions, if they have previously been trained to do so. So, experiments in this country at this point are allowed and so will be in the future if you adopt this law. At the moment, under the law in force, I am speaking of course of the law of 1999, which we are now amending, under article 22, all attempts on animals for educational purposes which may cause animals pain are prohibited. Under very strict conditions, five professions may, if they prove that they are unable to carry out this experiment adequately with other alternative methods, apply to the Veterinary Authority for authorisation. It's five professions that I've mentioned before that I don't repeat them. Apparently, at least some of these professions or colleges have estimated that they can do experiments with alternative methods, so since the time the law is in force, two colleges, namely Zootechnika and Farmation, have not made any demands on the Veterinary Administration for such an experiment, Farmation only one on the tissues. Biology has made a request for approval of an experiment on live animals, frogs and laboratory mice. They haven't been allowed to experiment on frogs, they've got them, and at this point they've got a permit for ten lab mice. They probably needed this permit in stock, because I have before me a document, an application for permission to carry out experiments on 10.10.2006, signed by Dean Prof. Dr. Janez Hribar, a description of the method of work, such as the neurobiology case. I read literally the method of implementation: the subject is carried out in the form of lectures, seminars and educations, chapters from practical work, which include computer simulations of the functioning of nervous and receptor systems. Next. An object that we may still be interested in, zoophysiology, the way in which the exercise is performed, the personality of the water in the tissues, osmotic resistance of the red blood cells, blood cell count, contractions of the isolated skeletal muscle. So the word living animals is not once used in the entire document. I'm reading the 2005 report. For the purpose of the study process in animal physiology subjects, 62 animals and an amphibia group, i.e. amphibians, frogs, were used in 2005. Animals were killed by a human method of execution and were taken from dead animals for experimental purposes and in accordance with the annual reporting instructions used in experiments. Group leader, own-handed signature, Dr. Grašlar. So much for our limiting their attempts. For the sake of clarity, once again. With the documents available to us at the Veterinary Board, we can now claim that no profession in his education is being restricted or would not be restricted. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you, Director General of the Veterinary Administration. This concludes the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE - TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE FITOFARMATIONAL FUNDS LAW. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mrs Marjetko Uhan, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u60	Hello again! At its 19th meeting, on 11 January, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on plant protection products submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption after a reduced procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food participated in the work of the Committee, the Legal and Legislative Service, the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia, the Union of Farmers of Slovenia and many representatives of environmental institutions and interested individuals. A written opinion was sent to the Committee by the Legal and Legislative Service. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the proposal for a law. The members of the Committee received comments from environmental organisations and individuals whose common denominator is opposed to the adoption of the proposed legal novel. For example, the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia draws attention to bee threats. Slovenian Foundation for Sustainable Development - Umanotera, Association of Organic Farmers of Slovenia, Association for Healthy Slovenia and many individuals participated in the debate. In fact, they are all anti-pesticides, not just against plant protection products or the amendment of the law, while the Agricultural-lander's Chamber of Slovenia has supported the amendment of the law. In a short presentation, the Ministry's representative explained what the novelty is, namely the recognition of the registration of certain plant protection products from other Member States, in order to introduce a separate sales programme of non-hazardous plant protection products in non-specialised shops and without prior professional competence. Furthermore, to round up the tasks of the FURS, the administrative procedure is simplified in certain segments, the legal basis for the designation of official laboratories for sample analysis is added, the criminal provisions of the new euro currency are adapted. In the debate, most Committee members supported the proposed solutions, since they are more friendly to smaller users of plant protection products. In addition, they agreed with the registration or amendment of the law providing for the introduction, recognition of registered funds in foreign countries and the view was expressed that it was pointless to prevent or even suspend the sale of plant protection products. However, there is a need to give more attention to the concern of traders or to the awareness of traders in order to be able to give appropriate advice to buyers. Other members again felt that some amendments to the bill were welcome, but they were against expanding access to plant protection products, including potential users who were not taught risks and risks. Some of the debate was also based on a proposal for a law that placed plant protection products bearers slightly lighter conditions for monitoring and periodic inspection of installations. Finally, the Committee considered the amendments tabled and adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 and 9 of the SDS and DeSUS. However, he did not accept the proposed amendments by Dr Paul Gantar. Finally, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u61	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye again! In the Social Democrats Group, we find that this law increases the possibility of uncontrolled use of plant protection products through easier access to these resources and by abandoning the need to educate users for certain types of plant protection products. At the same time, it also simplifies the procedure for recognition of the registration of certain plant protection products and of other Member States. We believe that such a relationship, based solely on the wishes of the users of these funds, is unacceptable. Indeed, the need for plant protection products cannot be assessed only through the economic interest of users, but also through an assessment of the impact on environmental pollution and in particular an assessment of the impact on human health. Particularly dramatic are the warnings of Omanotere, the Slovenian Foundations for Sustainable Development, the Association of Organic Farmers of Slovenia, the Association for Healthy Slovenia and the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia. Above all, the latter point out that Slovenia, one of the few countries that has preserved its indigenous species of bee, is a short bee, which we have also adequately protected in the European Community. We are now taking measures and introducing measures from those EU countries that have already overloaded their environment, and therefore we can expect that the cranberry bee will also be significantly more at risk as a result of these measures than it has ever been. This is one of the important European measures that we have successfully implemented and, on the other hand, we are trying to reduce. This is why we also have an amendment to reduce the uneducated possibility of access to plant protection products and limit the possibility of selling these assets to skilled or specialised shops alone. This would maintain the trend of gradually reducing the use of plant protection products and allow for greater development or interest in greater development, for the production of healthy food. Which can not only be a market niche, because many other EU member states have significantly simpler and better conditions for intensive farming. There are no such conditions in Slovenia. However, we have conditions that we can create and produce healthy food, which we can then sell not only on our own market, but also on the entire market of the European Union. And it would be good for agricultural policy to be oriented in this direction, not to simplify, as I said in the introduction, the understanding of agricultural policy only to a narrow economic impact and the interest of users, and leave the rest to chance. And we expect the proposal to be redefined around this amendment, and if this amendment is adopted, we see the possibility of supporting this law. However, if the amendment is not adopted, we will not support the law, because it truly facilitates access to plant protection products and allows uncontrolled use of these, which certainly cannot be in the interest of the sustainable development of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u64	We have a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on plant protection products. These are two essential amendments to the law: firstly, that only plant protection products that are not hazardous to human health and the environment are not in danger on their packaging and are packaged in small packages, can be accessible to users without specific training and also in non-specialised stores. However, it has already been stated in the law that all plant protection products are also available in flower shops and other shops, but there is no record of what resources. It is now clearly stated that only means other than those marked with symbols that warn people of danger, living beings, the environment and are in small quantities. All other means identified as hazardous to the environment, people, bees, fish, watercourses may only be sold by a person with a specific education, as well as by a user with training. This remains clearly stated in the law. However, funds that are not hazardous in smaller packagings will also be available in flower shops and other shops and buyers without mandatory prior knowledge. Even now it is possible to purchase biocides against flies, moths, mosquitoes, and no one stumbles if, for example, Pips buys from flies, which is significantly more dangerous than Biol than a natural extract. The aim of the novelty is to establish a system to reduce access for non-professional users to plant protection products that are dangerous and packed in large packages and to introduce a new sales programme for them. We believe that if funds that are not hazardous to the environment are available to non-professional users, they will not have a desire for more aggressive means. We do know, however, that under the current legislation, any asset can be obtained if it has only a 15-hour course. However, all those who have studied this and are dealing with plant protection products know that this is essential to knowing and working with resources. For this purpose, the competent person, the responsible person for consulting in trade and the seller who issues this must be qualified in the first place. The concerns raised by some NGOs about the increased pollution of the environment stem mainly from the fact that they throw all plant protection products into one basket or because of egotism or bias because of the negative characteristics of chemistry, where they include plant protection products, do not recognise positive properties. Let me say that plant protection products are all resources intended to protect plants from diseases and pests. Their substance may be chemical, microorganism, plant extract, oil. It is precisely because of different substances that they do not have the same characteristics, so they are not all dangerous, all toxic, even less identical, so not chemical, only dangerous, they will be accessible to non-professional users. Another important change concerns the recognition of a plant protection product from another EU country. These are only cases where the protection of a particular culture in Slovenia is not available for a registered asset which is produced in small quantities or is a small area and the plant protection industry has no interest in registering certain assets because the consumption is small and uncertain. The proposed amendment seeks in particular to align the situation of Slovenian farmers with other processors in the European Union. We must be aware that we are on the common European market and because of the non-competitiveness of our producers and the deception of some individuals that all starches will be available to anyone, Slovenian food can disappear from the Slovenian market. With regard to beekeepers and other environmentalists, however, it should be said that this novelty should not increase the consumption of starch, but in particular the use of more aggressive means, in particular those that are dangerous to bees. It is still in law that plant protection products can only be used for certain purposes on a specified culture and that all the warnings given in the instructions should be taken into account. It is extremely unprofessional and misleading to operate in public with kilograms of plant protection products and their consumption as a criterion of pollution. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] I'm sorry. I'm running out of time. Maybe later, with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u66	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that we Slovenians can be proud of a lot of things, and this is certainly a crane bee. When we adopt the law before us, we have received strong protests from beekeepers who claim that we are witnessing numerous bee plagues due to the use of plant protection products in food production and in our environment. There have been a number of movements that are fighting for a healthy environment and human health. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are also aware that excessive use of such funds also endangers the lives of people living in such an environment and who enjoy such food. It is certain that pollution of nature also affects part of entrepreneurship and tourism, which is based on the promotion of an unspoiled nature, a healthy natural environment, clean organic food and the like. We also agree with the statement in the letter from the Beekeeping Association of Slovenia that human environmental care is also a long-term concern for man himself. We therefore advocate the need to strike a balance between nature, the protection of precious animal species such as cranberry bee and food production and the competitiveness of the economy and agriculture. It's certainly a difficult task. The Association of Organic Farmers of Slovenia even believes that it is pointless to adopt the amendment of the Law on plant protection products on the basis of the fact that two regulations will be adopted at European Union level by the end of 2007 which will fully regulate this area and will be binding on all members of the European Union, in which we have been Slovenians for some time now. In doing so, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we point out that the debate in this law must not turn into an attack on farmers, into a sector as one that produces its own domestic food and is still essential for maintaining the regulation of the country, so it certainly deserves recognition, not criticism. Our country has identified itself to direct Slovenian agriculture towards the nature of more friendly and more attractive organic production for tourists, which it has also legalised with the action plan for organic agriculture. Farmers themselves point to the fact that the amendment allows much easier access to plant protection products even to those without proof of further education on the use of plant protection products. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we propose that the effects of such a change be adequately monitored and monitored and taken, and that the provisions be tightened to the extent that the law proves to be overly liberalising access to and use of plant protection products. In doing so, we would also expect the opinion of the Ministry of Health, which might assess the possible consequences for human health by means of such amended legislation on the use of plant protection products. However, the bill ensures that only those substances used in organic farming are released, i.e. less harmful plant protection products. Our fellow Member withdrew the amendments, which would have somewhat differently regulated this area because he did not encounter concrete treatment and support with them; and there could be an interpretation that we would like to hinder small producers in the SLS and advocate complicated bureaucratic procedures. In our group of Members, we support solutions that eliminate unnecessary and ineffective bureaucratic procedures, and we hope that the law under consideration will lead to this or that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u68	Have a nice hello to you all. The proposed law is living proof of why the Minister of Agriculture had to "flight". If nothing else, we should fly away because of this marriage. The fact is that "phytopharmaceuticals", as these plant protection products are called, is not as simple and as harmless a thing as some, especially those employed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the Republic of Slovenia. It would be wise to consult a few experts from another sphere, such as the pharmaceutical field, to find out how many pesticides are used today in connection with various studies on combat toxins, about substances that alter the genetic potential and the human scheme and similar things. We work here like a pig with fur. It's as if all of this is simple and that you can be someone, what I know, a pesticide we put on or spray on bread and eat it and digest it more easily. So far has come an understanding of this serious problem at the Ministry of Agriculture. The fact is that Slovenia is already fourth in the European Union's use of pesticides today. And if we know that Bulgaria and Romania are also in the European Union, then we can say that we are in second place. And if we exclude, I don't know, Luxembourg, which uses pesticides just for its pots, what doesn't have any more land anyway, means that Slovenia comes first after using pesticides per hectare. What's going on with our soil? Certain regions of the Slovenian homeland are so contaminated with pesticides that spontaneous abortions occur in a significantly larger number of women, as is usually the case anywhere in the world. But we don't care. In this case, the Ministry of Agriculture went hand in hand to the pharmaceutical industry, which will now package toxic substances in smaller "packungs", beautifully and personally wrapped, with beautiful stickers and will be available in flower shops and shops where food will not be sold. It is also possible to sell next to food, since this is the next step the Ministry of Agriculture will take if this is done together. The fact is that the European Union is preparing two laws and two regulations to be adopted by the end of 2007. We don't care, we'll walk our heads through the wall and introduce something of our own. I would then also ask how it is possible that at this time, when we are all for anti-smoking law that prohibits smoking in closed spaces, in public spaces, in general, and on the other hand, we allow 2% of those who use pesticides and secticides, phytocids and do not know what else they poison 98% of the other Slovenian population. Very strange. In addition, if we look at what it means to suppress weeds just so long and over, it would also make sense to ask and talk to someone from a bio-technological college to tell them what imbalances this causes in nature. No, we don't care. Because some people have a small mind, a narrow mind that can't think can't count and can't see two months in advance, so they're supposed to give me such a law. It's totally bullshit. And I, if nothing else, allow the one who will accept this law to happen to his child what happens to the various mothers in the Drava Field and in Prekmurje and elsewhere. And people of God, let's think, the Slovenians are too few, and now we're gonna poison ourselves with this shit right here. It is high time that some, especially some in some ministries, regain consciousness and begin to think, as our green president said, "like people". Come on, then, wake up and really start thinking like people. We'll do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I personally also have a relative rejection of this bill, and the DeSUS Group is not entirely indifferent. I'll just try to say it in a slightly different way and with a more calm tone. Otherwise, it seems to us that, in fact, the proposaler himself was probably surprised at the repulsion caused by this proposal over fragmentation, not only in political parties, but mainly among those who will be directly affected, and of course also among professional workers. Perhaps that is why it is surprising that at least two other working bodies, interested in the working bodies of our National Assembly, have not met. At the very least, the Committee on Health should hold a debate, and at the very least, the Committee on the Environment should also hold a debate, because these or these two areas are in fact the most affected by this law. And to begin with, let me say that neither I nor our Group of Members have anything against farming and against farmers. We do, however, have against the potential negative consequences of those who are also found in the material to be uneducated, uneducated minority users, here and there, only random users of these funds that are spent in inappropriate amounts without knowing what they are doing. So, against such a way of endangering our nature and thus our lives, of course, we have many concerns. The question is: To whom does this law actually please? Or is it just manufacturers, or just traders, or those who sporadically and accidentally deal with the production of parsley and the like? Is there even a political interest here, or is there an interest in the administrative structures behind it? At the very least, what we can see is that the bill was under-integrated, under-integrated. He's not thought through in all his dimensions. He seems to be very detached, individually doing some things in order to meet one basic and narrow goal. In order to be as accessible as possible, the consumption would be as high as possible in order to possibly reduce prices later on due to a larger supply. Nor will that argument apply anymore that people will not waste it uncritically in their gardens and meadows because it will be too expensive. No, no, no. In this way, it will be possible for a substantial lower price than today to receive these plant protection products for a longer period of time, unless this is prevented by any tax legislation. Economic reasons will be different. Economic reasons lead to accelerated consumption, which is also clearly the purpose of this bill. The applicant’s arguments are therefore modest or difficult to bear all critical thought. They say that there are undesirable changes and that is why we are taking this step in some of the shorter procedures. Can we hurry? We judge not. They say it's over-requirement administrative procedures. When it comes to the registration of toxins, these procedures should only be difficult. They say it's too much red tape. When it comes to threats of nature and health threats, bureaucratic procedures should be such that they cannot be avoided as easily. They say that a high price will make it impossible for those who do not handle it properly. He won't. As a result, the price, as we believe, will even go down. They say it is about support for those who so-called ardently engage in agricultural activities. We need to take care of that professional agricultural activity and the concern for nature, water, our health, the human family and the family, because it is a biocide. It does not need to be translated into Slovenian, what it means. So, because of the many concerns and the answers that we have received so far and which are not such as to at least respond to our judgment, we will oppose some of our parliamentary group to this bill. Some of them probably won't object. But united support for the law of the DeSUS Group is not expected.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec. [[She's not here.]] Mr Milenko Ziherl will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Once again a lovely greeting to the distinguished! From 2001 to 2004, when this law was passed, many things happened, from the Slovenian market, from 430 active substances to 280. Thus, certain plants for which protection products are produced in smaller quantities have not been protected. Some protective measures were obtained solely by means of the accompanying proof of additional education for plant protection products. As this evidence was not worth obtaining for smaller producers, for lovers, park managers, golf courses, they had no access to these funds. In addition, the law provides for a competent laboratory to carry out tests for inspection of samples taken from the ground. It was also necessary to amend the articles setting out criminal sanctions where Slovenian tolls had to be replaced by euro. In addition, the law also sets out the frequency of the examination of plant protection products applications. The proposed solution, three years for a new device and then every two next years a re-examination, seems to us to be entirely satisfactory for devices that are used several times a year. As already mentioned by colleague Bajc, the European Union, the Council and Parliament are already preparing a new regulation replacing this Regulation. 91/414, where the main emphasis will be on the fact that the countries of the European Union will be divided into three zones, namely zones which will be climate-related and agri-technically related. And within the country, within each zone, they will automatically recognise the registration of plant protection products. Let me illustrate this more plasticly, if, for example, in the same zone with Italy and maybe France, the funds registered in France will be automatically registered with us at the same time. However, it is more encouraging to note that the European Union Directive is also preparing a proposal for the protection of intellectual property, in particular a comparative assessment of plant protection products, by promoting the replacement of hazardous substances with safer substances. And there is that hope, or some response to the fear of all of us, that water, earth, and the environment are too polluted by these means. However, it is difficult to imagine modern agriculture without these resources. The only hope is that dangerous substances will be replaced with less dangerous substances, especially those with shorter withdrawals and less dangerous in the earth, so that I may not say even a partially friendly ingredient. Thus, a regulation called the Thematic Strategy on the Sustainable Use of Pesticides and the Directive on the Sustainable Use of Pesticides is being drawn up. However, it will be a long time before then, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the bill is good enough to resolve these concerns by then, in order to allow the small producers, in particular, to come up with protective measures without sometimes easy evidence of the ability to use plant protection products, because there are known cases where the lecturers have directed responses. Therefore, because of all the above, we will support the proposal for a new law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you. Dr Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected colleagues and colleagues at the Ministry of Agriculture, respected colleagues and colleagues! In the LDS Parliamentary Club, we will not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the plant protection product law. Why? In short, we do not support the changes that lead to the increased use of these resources and to the spread of the circle of users, from farmers and others engaged in economic farming, including the circle of lovers, gardeners, lovers and the like. We also do not support certain other legal solutions that, under the company of simplification of procedures, ease the relative restrictive treatment of plant protection products in the existing law. As has already been said today, the use of these funds in Slovenia is high. It is also true that data on the use of these funds show that their use is gradually decreasing. Farmers and organised farmers are obviously more aware of the risks and risks posed by the use of these funds each year, and have been taught more about the use of these funds every year, and the current law has already led to positive changes. Therefore, as the use of these funds is gradually decreasing, they are mainly disadvantaged producers and sellers of these assets. Therefore, by offering plant protection products for smaller producers, for amateur growers, for gardeners, even if they are less hazardous, they are essentially trying to obtain new market niches and replace the entry into traditional markets. We feel that this is unnecessary, unnecessary, and harmful. There is no economic motive for such a decision. There is no need for gardens, shelters and similar surfaces to open small orchards to use these resources. The fact is, however sad it is that the use of plant protection products will remain in agriculture for some time, that these resources cannot be eliminated overnight, even though everyone would like to. We believe, however, that in agri-economic production, the trend leads to less use and less hazardous use. That is why we firmly believe that it is not necessary to extend the range of users of plant protection products, nor the areas on which they will be used. Such decisions need to be based on the precautionary principle, which obliges us to act restrictively in environmental interventions and to take into account the worst possible scenarios. The history of the use of these funds tells us that some funds have been used for decades and argued that they are not dangerous and that the consequences for health and the environment have proved to be fatal. Would it not have been better if the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food had launched an action of organic and organic production on our gardens and small orchards, which is sometimes a self-evident tradition, rather than sending the law of a gardener to the first flower shop for purchase and purchase of supplies? The law and the solutions in this law are, in particular, opposed by the care of water. Water is our most important natural resource. We get almost all the water to supply the population from the groundwater. Subtle waters in Slovenia are still severely threatened, and if we are not restrictive, we will lose this source. Probably in the great joy of fillings of non-alcoholic beverages and drained water. If we are not prepared to recognise the exceptional importance of water for the future of this country and its strategic situation in the world and Europe, the short-term benefits of using these resources on new surfaces and new users will cause us great and even irreparable damage, along with other reckless interventions. At the same time, the Ministry of the Environment carries out as many as eight or nine programmes to reduce water pollution and burden; at the same time, we invest in this reduction and increase the use of pollution-enhancing resources. Imminently. From the point of view of water care, make it crystal clear what use of these resources is safe. The smaller, the better none. And at the same time, since I'm running out of time, I'd like to say not to overlook the warnings of beekeepers. Bees in our gardens and in our little orchards will lose out on these impurities. With a special declaration, we have committed ourselves to doing everything we can to preserve the bee. Today we must forget this statement if we are to adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on Articles 1, 2, 4 and 6 and the amendments tabled to be led by the review of the amendments of 30.1.2007. I am therefore putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members and the amendment of the Social Democrats Group of Members. I'm opening an application for discussion. Mr. Gantar, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you very much. All we can do now is repeat the debate on the committee. I'll be brief. I would really like to say that we, with our amendment, delete this first article, which allows for this wider accessibility of these plant protection products. I have already mentioned some reasons in the opening presentation. In particular, I would like to stress once again that we believe that the spread of use to these areas and to these users is unnecessary and pointless for us to actually harm the environment and, above all, water. I therefore propose that we accept this amendment and preserve the solutions as they are. We believe that there is really no reason to relax this use. I would also like to say what I had not been able to say before, and I miss a really thorough debate on these matters. I have proposed as Vice-President of the Committee on the Environment to the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment and Space that this body should also be declared an interested working body, and it is not. And we ourselves organised a debate with international organisations at the parliamentary club and also on the committee, and there it has proved to be a lot of talk and negotiation about these things in order to make our real solution. And what is presented in this Article 1 is not the right solution. Different solutions are possible and in order to find a way to this different solution, it is necessary to accept our amendment, return the law to the beginning, and discuss what we really want in Slovenia. What is the trade between water and increased pollution? We have not answered this question today either on the Committee or anywhere and I do not believe that we Members and Members of the Parliament are really so inconsiderate in this Assembly that we can simply answer this question and press "for" for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Germich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I am surprised that today we are considering this law without a comprehensive assessment of one of the important ministries, this is the Ministry of Health, which in view of all the past problems we have had in a very important area - and without the fluid that makes life impossible, this is water - so uncritically supported under the Government this law. This is the Ministry of Health, which should be aware that as a result of the use of safeguards, human health also has an important element. I come from an environment where we have had many years of problems with how to provide quality drinking water. And if we just look at the resources that we had to invest in doing research, in adopting the protection areas where we allowed and controlled individual interventions into the environment, and in looking for alternative resources because of having intervened in the environment in the past in a way that we did not have an accurate assessment of the impact on the groundwater. We have invested great resources in the rehabilitation and search for existing water resources and then also in the search for water resources, so that of course we provide as much quality drinking water as possible for all users. And we had problems on the organic solvents on the one hand, and on the other hand, there was a big problem with the use of protections for crops, for the suppression of weeds, we talked about atrazine, we talked about methylachlor, these substances that we then found in water analysis represented in this water. Even though I think that in the environment I come from, we have managed to do a lot at this point, there is still a lot of mistrust about whether we drink quality, clean drinking water there today. I'm talking about concentrations of individual substances, as I'm talking about substances in mass. And from this point of view, it is very important that we pay particular attention in the use of these funds. For control of use is one of the key elements of how to approach people's motivation for their use. We have different options on the market today. And today, of course, we also have different options in terms of how to act, and of course, it cannot be just and exclusively the economic objective of those who deal with production and sales. In order to assess all the negative effects, of course, the implementation of the definitions referred to in Article 1 should be given much more attention. We have managed to reduce the content of these substances in groundwaters, but we note that in some places the content of these substances in groundwater is increasing again. We have a series of studies that talk about how this affects the entire chain of life, how it affects the smallest organisms, and how it affects us in the end. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Chains. [[...]] We need to ask ourselves what is the effect of a combination of different means, namely the substances we are talking about today. Such research is significantly less, and is significantly less appropriate. And when we talk about this use, of course, we should know about all the measures we will take in the area of control. We already have one negative experience in the field of asbestos, where today we face great problems, how to partially compensate for the damage that people have experienced due to the use of asbestos in various products. And do we today have answers to all these questions? Can we compare the consequences on the one hand, which you justify within the framework of the law, so that we can solve problems on the golf course, so that we can solve problems, for example, in the handling of graves and so forth. And on the other hand, how the use of these safeguards will actually affect the entire biological life, what the consequences will be; I am not just talking about the human consequences, I am also talking about the consequences on other living things. And beekeepers are just one segment that reminds us of that. In doing so, we should have clear answers to questions about what control will be and what control will be like. So that we will not be in the situation again tomorrow, as Ljubljana was not long ago, when we had to change the values of maximum permissible concentrations in order to come into the framework of what is still acceptable. From this point of view, I also appeal to the Ministry of Health to take a significantly more in-depth approach to addressing such issues and solutions, because having a firm position without clear answers, how this will affect individual segments in life, is significantly hampered in addressing these issues. And if we are only talking about the direction we want in Slovenia, whether we will have extended organic production of healthy food, or whether we will stimulate the development of Slovenia as a country with the most varied biodiversity, or whether we will sacrifice, for example, these characteristics of Slovenia as one of the recognised qualities of this environment at the expense of increased use of protective resources. Of course, I support efforts to replace more dangerous substances with less dangerous substances, but let us do this in a way that we will also know about the consequences, that we will monitor their use and that we will be able to respond qualitatively to the question of what the consequences will be if such safeguards are used unsupervised. I therefore support, in this context, that before we introduce such solutions into the law, we hold a broad debate, allowing for the deletion of such provisions in this law. Let us take time to answer all these questions so that we do not take too quick steps to show that they have had very significant negative effects in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you, too. Member Borut Sayovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I am also extremely sorry that there is no former minister or new minister in this Chamber today. I think the new minister would have an extraordinary opportunity to withdraw immediately from the agenda the law that is harmful to Slovenia and Slovenia and thereby gain public confidence. What led you to let this law go through the procedure and to prepare it for Parliament is unclear to me. Above all, I think that there is no doubt that the lobbyist interests of the producers producing these toxins and having no doubt an interest in marketing them are in the background. What do you say? All the Members also received this glass of honey, which on the opposite side has a tiny flyer like a little obituary looks. This is a small obituary who will first hurt the bee and then no doubt the story will go on to the people. Here I am reading some explanations and explanations of why they will support the law, because it will be possible for people without a certificate and without further education to buy these funds, pesticides will be easier to buy also weed-relief gardeners, golf course managers, greeners in settlements and so on. Who else would you give honey and the like? Perhaps I do not know from the public that in our immediate vicinity on the hectare surface is one of the far largest users of these resources is the Ljubljana cemetery and Žale, which lies in the water protection area, that one of the biggest users of the pesticides of the Slovenian Railway, that those stones can remain the same as it is. There, large, large kilograms are also used on tons of these funds per year, but the public does not get the right data, how much we have spent on this, that the cemetery is, that the railways and all these objects are in many locations, where there are also water and drinking resources in the background. One of those rare natural treasures that we keep in Slovenia at least in most parts; in many parts, look at the story of Prekmurje, Pomurje, Dravsko Field and where else, we have already polluted and wasted this capital of our grandfathers. On the other hand, I also get the answers to why this story is so urgent. In Slovenian agriculture, which will never and never be comparable with European and global agriculture, it is necessary to increase income and efficiency. I wonder why. For two days in the daily newspaper in Finance, you can read that another ministry in this government wants to increase contributions to farmers. Is it then a patent that, on the one hand, by poisoning the environment, increased crops allow farmers to produce such production that they can contribute more to this budget, higher resources so that we can play, buy armored thin ones? Is this the goal and vision of the development of Slovenia? Is the objective and vision of the development of Slovenia that we have a healthy, ecological, sonar agriculture that allows the production of healthy food? We can bring to Slovenia not know how much genetically modified food with the law you have prepared for the following months, we can increase productivity by using pesticides and in an artificial way I do not know how much, but also by fertilizers, whose use is fortunate in recent years due to the financial downturn, but Slovenia on the European or global market will never be an important player in production. However, Slovenia can be an extremely important producer in self-sustainment for our people. Our people are simply obliged to provide more quality meat in many areas, more quality fruit, vegetables and Polish crops. What's more, what's my point about this law: we went over some sparrows with nuclear weapons. One of his colleagues mentioned earlier that in Slovenia, by adapting European legislation and by entering the European Union, a number of plants were without protection. Listen, for God's sake, where crops are so small, where the health problems of plants are so large that additional imports are needed. I agree, in certain segments, new, more modern, better protection measures need to be taken and introduced, but agriculture needs to be strictly separated - that part of Slovenk and Slovenes, who live from agriculture and are significantly different from their interests, must be supported - from the interest of gardeners, golfers and others. It may be necessary to have only one species of grass on the golf course, or there may be a meadow on which there is room for another broad-leaved plant, and at some point it can also meet its only goal to produce flowers and seeds. Those are the questions. However, if in Slovenia some plants and plant production have gone so far as to need new, heavier artillery, then there is concern and another thought in this direction about what we have done with our environment and nature to defend ourselves. Diseases in animals, humans and plants are simply a result of damaged natural balance. And when we have green winters in Slovenia and snowstorms in California, then we can see that something is really wrong with this global world. And if anyone has a job, then we have Slovenians to protect him with us first. I am sure and happy to see, after these discussions, that this is one of the rare laws that today has a real chance of falling, in order to settle the matter differently, better, in favour of farmers who live on their crops, and in favour of those who drink healthy water and have an interest in eating healthy food. I also ask the lawmakers - about bees there was much to be heard in this story, all honor to beekeepers and all the other societies that were hoping to raise their voices - what are you going to say to those? It is Slovenia's interest in organic agriculture and tourism that we have the environment and nature so polluted, whether it will be our argument before Europe, that it is a beautiful country where we are in an hour from Triglav to the sea, tourists, come to Slovenia, you will eat food that is healthy, biological, organic and otherwise produced, or, come to Slovenia, you come to an area that is one of those in Europe where they consume the most pesticides, insecticides and so on. Most samples of Slovenian honey today can still be said to be good, quality and very healthy. If we adopt this law, then over the years there will be some remains of these pesticides, then it will be in every honey, even though it does not appear to be, then there will be dust of genetically modified plants. These are our goals, and these are our desires? Above all, when using this chemistry and using it, I would point to something that we're jumping into water that we don't know how deep it is. Remember the story of my, your, our parents, when the Colorado bug that came with potatoes from America threatened to destroy the production of potatoes in Slovenia and Europe, that's when the rescue came. There's a pantakan. Pantakan, today we know that DDT was one of the worst poisons found in organisms, but mainly in fats and muscles of our parents, even though it was used 30 years ago, is still today and is, of course, one of those chemical substances that cause an increased number of cancers. When DDT came as a savior in the same way, in the same way as today's heavy artillery means of destroying weeds, insects, and so forth. At that time, these pantakan children with their hands, spoons, and spoons were loaded into nylon socks, and then cheerfully in the potatoes, where they poured it in their short pants. And these people are suffering from cancer today, DDT, even though they used it 30 years ago, it's still in their organisms today. In addition to the organisms, as I said again, we will bring it into many Slovenian watercourses. And this marriage, if you want to withdraw it, take it away. However, it must be corrected and separated when using these means, strictly separated by a Slovenian farmer who has knowledge, a Slovenian farmer, whom we made with the regulations, by law, forced him to go to education, spent valuable time for it, and spent money on it. And every year we force him to also use these sprinklers to inspect and it costs him again. Please, for God's sake, let's separate someone who has knowledge that is professional from someone who would in his spare time, because he doesn't like knitting weeds and knitting in the garden, likes to do it with pesticides and similar means, and of course from what is obviously the most important thing in Slovenia and one of the visions of the development of Slovenia, these are, of course, golf courses and golf players. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you, too. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would like to express my support for those amendments which are essentially returning the obligation to restrict the possibility of selling plant protection products in specialised shops, as well as evidence of competence for the use of plant protection products by those who purchase them. So it's the buyers themselves. To talk about the fact that such conditions as our plant protection law prevents the production of profits in agricultural crops, I think it is quite attractive for hair. Why? Because it is necessary to know that those farmers and those agricultural organisations that produce sufficient quantities of agricultural produce for the market must certainly use plant protection products, but in quantities and in a way that is safe. We know that we already have, except for biological production, as we call it lazily, the production of agricultural crops without the use of chemical plant protection products, because we can also have biological plant protection products that can be very effective, but it is true that there are a lot of attitudes as chemical and especially more delayed their use. However, we need to know that those who deal with commercial crop production have no problem knowing and must be educated enough and must be qualified enough to use them properly. For those who work for profit or at least cover all the costs of their production, we certainly cannot say that it is so ignorant that they would not be able to buy the plant protection products they need in their production. And I also think it is right that traders selling plant protection products must have adequately educated people selling plant protection products, and in particular control over their distribution must be such that there is simply no possibility of abuse and pollution of the environment. We need to know that it is not a coincidence that in the world and even in Slovenia there are more and more different diseases that have the character of allergies, which have the character of even genetic changes, because the whole range of plant protection products is carcinogenic, causes genetic changes and also causes allergies. I think that destroying human health is certainly as important as destroying wild animals, such as the extremity bee, but I don't think that's the only problem. We need to know that the whole species of insects that are useful after all are pollinating precisely these plants that farmers grow, that this also causes the poisoning of birds that eat these insects. This contaminates the entire food chain. I think that the law, which has already been sufficient, in my humble opinion, weighs precisely in this area, to reduce its sharpness, is certainly a very unusual act in the 21st century. Slovenians cannot be proud of the fact that, at a time when the whole world, even the most conservative countries in the field of protection, such as the United States, President Bush, who so far did not want to hear about the impact or reduction of the impact of man on climate change, has even offered a fuel reduction programme in his last speech. He must have thought of the rest of the environmental burden. We'll go back. I think that this is unacceptable and that we must reject such changes to the law or support amendments that correct the law again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Member of the Cvet Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I, too, will first protest in this law against the College's decision to adopt it after a reduced procedure. While it is true that this time, at least on the substantive side, this is not a comprehensive law after the formal salary, it is not an extensive law, and it is, in substance, very extensive. And if we have adopted a decision or information on the discharge of this Minister a few days ago, then I think that, today, with a very calm heart, we will also reject this last product, the last cowardly egg she has planted in this House. I think it is a disaster that instead of a law restricting the use of plant protection products, it is a disaster to limit the use of poisons in agriculture, to be very direct, to adopt a law towards liberalisation in order to serve, as the President of the Movement for Justice and Development Drnovšek has said, some lobbyists who want, while clearly showing that the use of these funds has decreased significantly over the past four years, to make the use of the bell pay for their profits. They will need to meet, find ways to sell more of these toxins. And since this matter has decreased mainly in those areas, I have very carefully reviewed the data where the tools for gardeners are used, for vegetables, golf courses and so on. There's the biggest drop in consumption. Of course, then it is clear what needs to be done. This should be packed in smaller boxes and made possible by increased sales. And once again, no one listened to the profession. I've read a lot of protests. The societies are listed, they go towards dozens that no one has included in this debate and no one wants to listen. Now some others are aware of these problems, but obviously this time I have to warn again, the completely inappropriate conduct of the Minister of Health. It's not the Minister of Health again, it's the Minister for some other interests. He gave peaceful consent to this law, and in Slovenia there are no serious analyses and studies of the impact of these toxins, I will use this term all the time, on purpose, what is the impact of these toxins, which we put in our bodies every day through food, and what is the impact of these toxins on our hereditary material as well. And it's funny, the farce is that this law is supported by a party that advocates greater fertility, but there is no parallel to the fact that there are multiple couples in Slovenia from day to day who have problems with it and where there is a clear parallel also with these toxins. Really strange, hypocritical behavior, which is very hard to understand. And of course, the law serves exclusively the economy and profit of some! Why do we not consider perhaps the profit and economics of our beekeepers, who are said to be very successful, who achieve good results that even export honey because of the quality of honey? To me, their profits are completely equivalent, perhaps to others, if we can even talk about profit. I don't know why we're dealing with some modern capitalist games like golf, why we're more interested in graves, how beautiful balconies will be than our health. Someone's got to say it, I'll say it's very banal. Because we want to give them these toxins and their options in small boxes. Are we really more interested in having beautiful balconies with beautiful flowers and beautiful parks, instead of thinking in the long term, perhaps even banning the use of pesticides in park areas in densely populated areas, urban environments and so forth? Instead of accepting it, it might be a little less green grass, a little less flowering flower, but unfortunately we don't think that way. We are still far from some longer-term thought. Of course, as mentioned earlier in the introduction by the Committee on Agriculture, we cannot even talk about non-hazardous plant protection products. All plant protection products are kind of dangerous and it seems to me to sell them, but it's true - it's better to use the term "poison". The poisons we're talking about today. And I have to say that I find everything strange even when, through the media or through this National Assembly, the President of the Committee on Agriculture, who, if I recall correctly, has asked me to do so on the Commission for Authorised Affairs to carry out the field of production and counselling in the use of plant protection products as an afternoon trade. Yes, isn't it, dear colleagues, for a direct interest, for a direct interest, for a business in the back? And I can't listen to this kind of debate. Let them represent this to us, perhaps it would be good to hear a doctor today, but not him. And I hope that we will indeed reject this law and that we will not serve such narrow interests. Last but not least, fellows, I'll keep asking you with your guns. You have written in the coalition contract that an important indicator, an indicator of the ecological state of nature, bees, is why the coalition will pay special attention to beekeeping. What we received yesterday from the Beekeeping Association does not indicate much attention. Last but not least, even the President of the Beekeeping Association years ago, I think he was a member of New Slovenia, Mr Peterle, I don't know if you're going to run over all of this, forget everything. In Domžal, I can tell you that in the last year we were witnesses to the great sea of the bee, and we were all bitter and sad. And six months later, the matter turned out to be still on the water, in the Mengish field. And so short-term - Mr Jerovšek, I know that you are a chemist and that it is also possible to have something of your interest here, but such short-term thinking "sorry" does not have a real future in Slovenia. And instead of talking here in Parliament about real agricultural issues, how we will help organic farmers in their production, we are talking about how to liberalise the use of poisons in agriculture! And lately, I've met some organic farmers and they don't have very nice words about the Ministry of Agriculture. They tell me that no one really encourages them to have major difficulties in obtaining financial resources, in subsidies that no one is helping them. But we do not help them to produce more of the food that many in the world admire! You know, when foreigners come to Slovenia, they try our vegetables, because you've probably all heard them, and they say, "Yes, this thing tastes good." It is likely that with the increased use of these resources, food will soon lose its taste in us. And another thing we can boast about when we meet strangers. I often say we can drink tap water for now. And people look at you like you fell off the moon when you might say that somewhere in Africa, South America or Asia: we drink tap water. But we play with it like it's something that's just been given. That's the problem. This is what we are talking about today in this law and not about liberalisation - golf to me, but parks, and roses on balconies really don't mean any more than maybe personal health and influence all these dangerous things. And a lot was done. Let's give this to our colleague today and start drafting a law on restrictions on plant protection products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you, too. Member Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u86	Thank you very much. That's not true. We're going to reject your amendments to an even greater extent. This visionary work of yours, Mrs Orzmova, is quite flattering and shows that you do not know the breadth of this problem. It is not a problem in the flowers on the windows and in golf, what you emphasize, but the problem of caring for water, land and air is, of course, much more complex. This winter shows what is the problem with greenhouse gases. The problem of drinking water, the problem of polluting the earth - but how do we solve this? And this law today, this amendment, has nothing to do with it for a short time. What the developed Europe will do in the long term is America and the whole world, and this is, of course, a question that is not only present in the first place, but must actually be on all continents. The worst disease among all, you know, is still hunger, in a good part of the world that can't be fed. And this world will not be able to be fed if, in the way you speak, you refuse to use these funds. He used to be your colleague, mag. Saiovic, the principles of the question are bugged on potatoes. I don't know if we're going back a little bit longer. Maria Teresa, by decree, introduced the planting of potatoes. That's how people resisted. But as the number of people in Europe grew, the policy had to act on something. It was necessary to find some new plants that would fill all the hungry mouths that appeared. And they had to start in all countries, in all the provinces that belonged to the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, to start planting potatoes. And then, when the potatoes got caught, and then the other plague came and first tried to do the colorado beetle, if I did a little caricature, erase it by having people pick this up on Sundays, then, of course, the thing got out of control, and actually, for that time, the happiness was in the accident that they had invented some means that they could actually crush the colorado beetle, or the colorado beetle would crush the potato, and it would cause a big famine in Europe. So now these are the dilemmas what to do. The world is growing rapidly and the possibility of survival has also had to be increased. So, take care of enough food. The most effective means in agriculture - earlier it was said that 2% of farmers terrorize 98% of Slovenes - the most effective means that would have no impact on nature, are joking with us and say, "Motikal", using a motika. I was born on my own on farmers, and I know how my mother tortured herself all day to bathe. Once she had bathed the whole field, a weed appeared again at the other end and began again. You don't have people for it today, you don't have the resources for it, you have to be competitive and so on. It is no longer possible to process it this way. Even at the cemetery, and I don't know what was said before, you can't use these methods anymore, but you have to help yourself. And today they're helping each other with a device called "bumefect." I don't know how they'd rub all those weeds growing up on the railroads, and we'd plant them if we didn't oppress them, wet them all over the place. The wind would blow up this axis, like, a mile away, ten kilometers away. I don't know if you know these things. Can you imagine how this would work in nature today? There are not enough people, they have to be paid dearly at work and you have to be competitive. If what you're suggesting to me is that we should support organic farmers, I say that we are just supporting them in Slovenia, but the country can afford organic agriculture in a certain segment, in a few percent, and for this it provides certain subsidies. But it cannot go completely organic agriculture, dear lady from Domžal, because you will be hungry because you will not have enough food. There will be no food for two million Slovenians. Slovenia has no more than 60% of its own needs today. And that's less from year to year. We are bigger importers of food from year to year. And what kind of food do we import? I say worse than we do at home, despite that and such laws. We import worse food, plastic balls instead of tomatoes, and so on, I won't mention it. And our people are just buying it because it's a la Spar, Hofer and I don't know who all of it is, but also the best neighbors offer it as the best quality that's cheap, and so on. Ecological food can't be cheap, it's more expensive, it's expensive. Only if the state subsidises it with large government deposits. They would all be organic farms if the country gave them from the budget. Why not? Why would we want to bathe in wheat? Of course we will, but how much we will produce - nothing! One acre of detail. Perhaps it will be enough for Mr Drnovska, but I do not know if two million Slovenians and Slovenians will be enough - the President of the Movement for Justice and Development or what it is already called. So these are big dilemmas and we have to answer that. But the change in this law will not make matters any worse even slightly, as far as the current situation is concerned. Only a few unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles will be removed. And now I'm going to answer two or three more questions. For I am also a beekeeper, and this letter, which beekeepers wrote, is so, I would say, written across the thumb and trying to influence some feelings. Plant protection products, of course, threaten beekeeping. On the other hand, I find that more and more areas in Slovenia are growing. Every year so much and so much, the Ministry will be able to say, and this creates ever better conditions for beekeeping. Where I have bees, I'd love no one around to have a vineyard. I could use that as a beekeeper. Why not? Let's all stop the winemaking. I'll have bees, and they'll have to shut it down because there's no way in Styria to protect the vine from pernospora and idiody without using plant protection products. That's not possible. Mr. Komat and those who claim to prove it! I believe he didn't even produce a liter of wine, but he's a great expert at blaming the analysis and so on. The farmers would do that if someone paid them! While the country can do something, it can harm the cultivation of natives. Those don't have to be sprinkled. We're just going to have a white and rare wine locker and bleach and so on. They have that in Austria, too. I don't know why you say there's methyl alcohol in there and it's harmful and so on. [[...]] There's always a way to weigh what's plus and what's minus. And that's why I'm going to say this because these funds are expensive, I guarantee you, no one uses them more than they need to. And because I have 800 vines myself, the one who sells me advises me: "This year the experts propose this and this." It is said that the trader will know and that the profession will be the one to advise, and I will be in those amounts. And when the anti-pernosporal service tells us that it needs to be used, then we use it. And the situation on this segment is improving from year to year. Why would I have to pay someone for some exam now? Of course, those who lead the courses are cheering for it because they get 30, 40 grand, and then I'm going to go to his class every two years so I can get a card and then I can buy that card. Money plays its role everywhere in the background. And even in the previous term, such a law was passed, and I objected. Those who are great users should follow this, and those who are small, and we must receive advice from them and from the seller. The Cranberry bee will be no more at risk, but I agree, it is a large indicator and an indicator of the state of nature. Therefore, in this mandate, a number of things have been done with regard to tax legislation on beekeepers' visas, as well as in the subsidy area and perhaps in any other area. The lady mentioned a number of things that were not related to this, but specifically flew to New Slovenia and to birth problems. We could open it wide open. Contraceptive tablets, which are hormonal preparations, are also likely to affect the problem later in gestation. And these are, in a way, poisons entering the body. We wouldn't discuss it. These are some sort of facts. Then I would suggest to you that in such an easy way you do not talk about all these problems because they are too complex and too wide to be covered with such a left hand in a law that touches a completely different area. I think there's a measure of reason to do this. It is true, however, that these producing industries are making great efforts to improve these resources, to seek ever-new and new methods, to move on to hormones that actually work, as far as herbicides are concerned, on a completely different basis, to effectively block photosynthesis into plants, not to affect groundwater, and when we find some new preparations for all these things, new ways, then the situation in nature will improve. Until then, however, it is particularly necessary, with the assistance of the professional and advisory services, to ensure that matters are used within the limits of what is possible. But at this point, the world can't stop them, because if it did, then we would face a much worse problem that I've already told them in the introductions, and that's to say that so many and so many people in the world are still dying every day because they don't have anything to eat. That's a big problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you. Replica, Member of the Flowers of Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I will be very brief because I agree only in this, Mr Sok, with you that this is a very complex problem, but everything else - you have not convinced me and, of course, only because of the great impact your party has on the agricultural sector in this country right now, you are also leading this committee. I hope there is someone else with you who thinks otherwise about European agricultural policy, which I think is the first one that needs to be changed, and you are still talking about that old paradigm. There is no problem in Europe with the quantity of food, and if Europe could and should produce all the food and possibly give it to others in the world, there would be no hunger. But in Europe, we limit and limit food production, we set quotas and similar things, quantitatively, so, you know, we could say a lot of things both, but unfortunately we're on very different shores, how we see the future of agriculture, but we'll be better off out there.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you. Comrade Paula Gantar, I ask you, you just wanted to point out that I'm reopening the debate or Good. [[...]] After we have finished with my colleague Juban and Mr Jank Webro, we will open another round for discussion. I don't know if I can give you a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u90	I would have allowed myself a replica of what Mrs Orzmova said when she said none of the doctors had answered. Since I'm alone from the doctors here in this room, then allow me a replica so that the position on this side is clear. A few remind me of this debate about that debate about the free sale of drugs, not about the free sale of poisons or pesticides. At that time, we also discussed this in the Committee on Health, this issue and this point in the Committee on Health. All I'm saying is facts. Because you wanted, Mrs Orzmova, my opinion too, then I will tell you that, as in the case of asbestos, as with other problems, I will think as a doctor, no matter what bench I sit in. In this case, I cannot think about confirming this, because I will not be given a hearing today to explain my voice in order to confirm this, because I would have made a mistake. When I observe in Tolminska and in the Tolmine hills, how people are "mature" and at the same time proud of their ecological farms and their organic crops, then I am sure that pesticides are also needed. We need a lot of them because they can destroy our crops or there's no crops at all; but under control, under the control of experts. As with medicines taken under the control of experts, not on sale. And to conclude this negative opinion on this, I say that in the etiology of many diseases and many cancers, which unfortunately we encounter every day, especially the digestive tract, pesticides are mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you, too. Members will probably understand that this was an exception, i.e. the implementation of Member Klavora as a replica. You must understand, of course, that I will no longer allow such replicas, because it would mean that if one were asked by economists, that this would, of course, allow this practice to continue with 5 to 10 Members in this National Assembly. However, we will continue with the list of panellists. Member Geza Juban has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will try to limit myself to Article 1, the amendment to Article 1, and I will help myself with the amended bill and then with the applicable law. In doing so, I will only say two, three very short things, that I respect all civil associations, the initiatives that have also emerged on the committee, when we have discussed this law, for as long as they have a reasoned debate on this matter, such as it is, and in the fact that we already have the law in force and the changes envisaged for it, and that the matter must revolve around it. Some radical populisms, which come from nothing, let us ban everything, I cannot support those matters, and I will not discuss them in this direction. Secondly, you will find that the LDS and the Club of Members are a party that has every right to think, to see that their arguments I will present, and this way I will work this time too. It is very similar to that of this substance to the accumulation of funds and to the increase in the number and quantity of medicine and it is exactly the same in the veterinary field and all of these areas could be discussed in the same way. One is in the area of sales, the other is in the field of testing, dissemination, payment and so on and the rear of capital, which has an interest in selling as much as possible, here and there. We also have enough stories of this kind in the country, say, in medicine specifically in this case and let's not get carried away. Above all of this misery with several times the worst measures, in the last 10 years, probably even twenty, the criteria of the World Health Organisation, which has arguments, as we are now referring to many times more here, and the criteria for allowing a certain matter to come to the shelves, are such as to be amazed. They are primarily dealing with these things that we are rightly alerting some today, but that is not how we will solve them. And just one more case. I'll just go to the amendments, then. We have two amendments to Article 1. The LDS amendment provides that the article should be deleted, which is this article, which is in the supplementary proposal for amendments to the law. This is the text that you have adopted on the Committee on Agriculture and has an addition to allowing the sale to customers without the evidence provided. And that's what we're talking about. Here I will use the case that some of us, who will or will vote against the law, will adopt a provision that it is not possible to sell a simple remedy against the ears on the hibiscus without the necessary proof that you have a certain qualification. Today they sell countless resources, which are also based on natural extracts of plants, such as an extract of fleas growing in nature, and at the same time, when they press me here, the wife of one of you will go to the agricultural shop, she will say, "I have ears on hibiscus, everything will die, probably ears, or I don't know if they are," and they will say, "You can't get it because you don't have the qualifications." A simple asset based on a natural extract. "How come you're such a stupid store?" "Well, your husband accepted it yesterday in Parliament." This could happen to us. As a result, this part of the text is not so problematic to me, but then two paragraphs of this Article 7 and one in the amendments where it says that the Ministry prescribes what it will look like. This part's gonna be important. There is, of course, a discussion about whether we have to prescribe this matter here or then leave it to the Ministry, once, twice, once to the government, twice to the other. And, of course, it's important here how this is to be prescribed. I think it's my opinion now that we're not exactly in a position to prescribe here. In general, because of all the conditions laid down by law or by law, in all these small cases, gardeners, hobby variants, depending on man's use of this instrument, it is less or less aggressive. Whether he will dosage as much as necessary to avoid endangering himself and others, or he will overdose five times, and of course he will do harm to himself and others. And in this part, we can't cut our marriage, and this story, which is supposed to be drastic, is going somewhere else. That's why I think it would be an acceptable solution, as it is, this is the LDS amendment. In extreme urgency, I still find the solution adopted by the Committee acceptable. However, it would be too difficult for fellow members of the Social Democrats' Group to resolve the issue and then turn to some illegal solutions, and the law would not be able to be implemented and it would not be good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you. Member Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Well, we are really making an amendment to this article to limit the use of plant protection products and, in particular, to the sale or accessibility of these products. Indeed, in the present law, these assets are allowed to be sold both in specialised shops and in flower shops and in non-food stores and in a specific part of food stores. So these two solutions, which are related to floral and non-food goods and food stores, we want to get rid of that circle that is appropriate and included in order to sell plant protection products. We are aware that it is not possible to say overnight that we will no longer use these funds in Slovenia. At the same time, we are aware that development must, however, go in this direction, that these funds are used as much as possible and that we do not cause problems in the environment, nor in the economic interest of users, nor in the health of humans and animals or insects. Unfortunately, we note that this law is only for the benefit of users in the procedure, is not taken into account and there is no evaluation by health protection, no environmental impact assessment is made. And this is the greatest flaw that speaks in this direction that this law, as it is, cannot be supported. I would also like to point out that if we already have an agri-agricultural chamber in Slovenia, on which, in fact, the existence depends on the number of its members, and this also means, above all, the number of people who actually have their kindergartens, a certain amount of land and therefore pay this chamber a membership fee. It would be much better if this Chamber, because it exists, mainly because the gardeners are included in this Chamber as mandatory members, invested these funds and their efforts in education and monitoring both the state of the environment and, of course, the education of all those who are supposed to use these funds for their own needs. Nor is this solution to be seen in this law, nor is it somehow in terms of the development of agricultural policy. I would also like to stress and highlight the fact that it is not enough to allow a farmer to produce as rationally as possible using plant protection products, because this economic interest can be converted very quickly within the farm itself and it would probably be very important not only to control, as prescribed here, sprinklers at some point in time, but should also systematically monitor the health of these users or farmers using these means to produce those crops that they have in their fields. Here I think we should also pay more attention and allow these farmers some regular annual health check, I hope to say free, which could also give each farmer information, in which state he is not finally himself. For what will help us if, for example, the farm owner is sick or a family member who would take over this farm, then in the agricultural field we have actually done nothing. In this way, I think that agricultural policy should also go in this direction, so that we can take better care of the health of the farmer himself and that it is not enough to enable him to produce in the most efficient way, by means of plant protection products, and then by himself pays either health insurance or all the measures that need to be taken in case he gets sick. However, there is certainly a much greater likelihood that the disease will occur if it is used more and in a way that enables it to acquire them without adequate knowledge than if it acquires it in a specialised trade and also proves that it is adequately qualified to do so. I think there would be really more effort, more resources, more knowledge, but not least, there is a lot of money in this area and a lot of funds are being used in the area of agriculture for promotion. And it's not only a promotion of good packaging, you make some packaging and then you sell or a product that is treated with plant protection products successfully on a commercial shelf, but probably this promotion would go in this way too, that we have less personal packaging, that simply says that this product is produced on land that has not been contaminated for many and many years with a variety of products and that the farmer who put this product on the market is written with a name and that it is included either in an association or in some organic farming program. Of course, talk about the fact that in Slovenia we cannot simply and only through organic farming provide sufficient quantities of the various food products we need to be somehow independent of other countries or especially traders and articles that can be sold in our area. However, we must be aware that in Slovenia we also went to some kind of extreme, even after an extremely simple and simplified process, without using arguments to preserve the demographic image in Slovenia, so we went to announce 35% of our area for Natura 2000. This year and the end of this year will come to the final approval and ratification of Nature in Brussels itself, and we will lose, not least, jurisdiction over this area. And for every intervention, we will have to base on what it will be like, to what extent, and not least, to ask ourselves whether we may have any alternative measure to make this nature possible, I would say, shorten it somewhere and then make it up to it elsewhere. Unfortunately, in Slovenia we do not have adequate replacement land for interventions in Natura, which will also affect the demographic picture in Slovenia. And if we combine this view of demographics in Slovenia, when we limit a large part of development to Natura on the one hand, and on the other hand intensively or try to poison those areas that are outside Nature - both affect the demographic picture. And that's what ultimately puts you in front of a fact, whether we even know what we're doing in Slovenia. One extreme of poisoning, one extreme of protection. Where are we, in fact, with all our capacities that we can invest in development and take into account the economic aspect, economic aspect or interest in Slovenia, a demographic aspect. And when you take all this into account, then you can split up and define yourself as a mode of management, as a way of introducing organic technologies. And I was surprised when we adopted the Environmental Protection Act already in this mandate. And when you suggest that in areas that are, say, in water protection areas or in ecologically important areas, the State should give priority to promoting the introduction of ecological technologies. No! No! This is not yet a strong enough argument for us to be able to promote environmental technologies in those areas that are ecologically preserved and important for further development. So really each one of you is doing this development. And much more money is invested in those areas that are contaminated than in those that are still preserved today. And that is why this effect will also be summed up in the development and preservation of the demographic image in Slovenia, when, on the one hand, there will be no resources available for organic food production, and on the other hand there will be more means to solve the problems in the contaminated areas. And it will be past I don't know how long, depending, of course, on contamination, that that environment will ever be comparable to what is still being preserved today. So, while understanding and declaring these areas is on the one hand in Slovenia - if I return to Natura 2000 - it is problematic from this point of view, because it has actually completely left the agricultural surfaces of Nature and deals only with the part which is somehow already naturally preserved, while it does not touch these parts. And these parts will certainly affect the part that is protected because of intensive production. Thus, we should be much more moderate and more complex in space interventions, and especially in nature conservation, as in this case, in this case, when we are releasing access to plant protection products, we are also allowing additional quantities and different preparations from other countries that have not yet been made available in Slovenia. I think that this does not really lead in the right direction and that this amendment, which we are proposing, is at least one step towards trying to create the most controlled access to these funds and also the most controlled and controlled use of these funds. However, if control of the health status of users, farmers, were to be added to this, we would also do a great deal for the Slovenian farmer. We'll do too little if we just give him more poison in his hands. I think that our amendment is also worth considering in a further debate and that we should take a step forward in order to pursue all of these complex debates that I have mentioned, but we will decide on limited access and limited use or controlled use of these means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you. I'm gonna reopen the application circuit. Please. We've got eight interviewees reported. The first one has the word only Member Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The year 2007 will be the bug year. The representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture know what this means. This problem has been dealt with in some parts of Slovenia since 2002, with greater or less success. I have also pointed out this problem over the past two years also the former Minister of Agriculture, Mrs Marija Lukačič, and several measures have also been positive, some measures are too late and some are still envisaged. I am therefore also interested in this discussion whether this liberalisation in relation to the use of plant protection products is also linked to the suppression of the Mayan beetle collars. This problem confronts us in the congregation of Idrija. This process goes towards the municipality of Logatec. If this cause of plant damage is not adequately suppressed, then this disaster will also occur in the area of Ljubljana. Lenart is also affected and some other areas in Slovenia. That this liberalisation can be a two-sword, however, says this case. Let's say the whole Black Forest, where 800 hectares of land were destroyed in 2005, especially grassland. It is a water protection area for a wide area, from Idrijska to the whole city of Idrija to Vipavska valley, etc. Here's the karst area, here's the raccoon leaks. So that experts who have made a plan to suppress these larvae of the Mayan bug, experts from the Phytosanitary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Nova Gorica and Idrija have found in their study that 50 per cent of this area is not allowed to chemically suppress ogres and in the other 50 areas only under close professional supervision. If this is all going to be very liberal now, I'm asking who's going to control how this bug is going to be suppressed. This study also makes it clear that, given the vulnerability of this whole karst ecosystem, especially since it is a watershed area for drinking water for a large number of people, it is necessary to use it here and that it is only appropriate to use a special fungus that then suppresses this bug. Therefore, my question would be, above all, in terms of how this will be controlled in a particular area, in order not to lead to the poisoning of people with drinking water on the other hand. And here we need to have one proper attitude towards this problem. I would therefore ask the Ministry's representatives how they would monitor this. In addition, another issue that is not directly related to this law, namely, to another law, plant health. The Minister answered my question about the fact that this law will come into the government procedure this month or that it will be adopted by the Government by the end of the month and will arrive at the National Assembly in the spring. On the basis of this law, at least as she explained to me, we could approach the organised repression of these pests, but not on the basis of the actions of fire, as now that the damage has occurred, and then this damage has been reimbursed to farmers, but to take preventive action. That is why I am interested in how this plant health law, the stage it is at, and whether what the Minister is now, the former, will also state in this reply. And one more thing. We talked about organic food production and that organic food production is very expensive, that small areas for this organic food are suitable in Slovenia. I think that organic food production could be substantially stimulated by some measures taken by the State, following the example of other European Union countries or by neighbouring Austria. In fact, in some other countries, this country also encourages this by ordering a mandatory percentage of, say, 30% of organic food produced in institutions that are cared for by the State or by the local community. For example, if we had 30% of organic food in all children's kindergartens, all primary schools, secondary schools, hospitals, this would automatically mean more organic food, because more food would be required on the market, and these organic farming farmers would be stimulated to expand their production and organic food so that more would be in Slovenia. It would also be healthier for these youngest generations or those affected, such as hospital patients and so on. Now these institutions have to buy cheap food because they are tied to offers for year-round supplies, which is usually the food of a poorer quality. I think that if the state prescribed that 30% of organic food should be produced in these institutions, then it would also encourage such agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you, too. Member Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Unlike the previous Animal Protection Act, we must recognise in the parliamentary club that these proposed amendments take into account some of our suggestions that we have had visas for this law. From this debate, I believe that in this article and in this amendment, if we ask all users for some additional education or course, in the manner prescribed, I do not think we will achieve much either. A 15-hour course can't give you that you really would use some chemical plant protection products exactly as prescribed. I've mentioned some cases before. And because of this insistence on some solution here, it's nothing more, I think it's pointless. And only about organic production. When we talk about organic production, we should know what conditions it is possible to produce one such organic food, bioprocessing, organic organic organic production. If we don't have one natural isolation, a closed, protected area, then we can't talk about it. Much of the promotion of organic production makes no sense when we do not know under what conditions it can be done. In Slovenia we have some ideal areas for something like this. But there is one part where it is impossible to produce and not speak, to impose that this is possible in Slovenia, I do not know what is great. The current share in Slovenia is too small, I think it has the most in Europe or even in the world of Austria. If we achieve their share, it will be an important success, but not a great storytelling, to promise that there will be a boom in Slovenia and that we will live from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you. Member Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Whoever listened to the day-to-day discussions had the feeling that in our colleges only greatly dissecting and cutting animals, that was in point 1 and point 2 would get the feeling that now that this law will be passed, that people will go a lot without the need to sprinkle on their small fields, small vineyards and perhaps small orchards. The truth is quite different. It's a first contradiction, a big farmer, a big farmer, a small farmer. A large producer, where we can talk about 1,000 litre tanks and the like, certainly took part in this course out of their own interest and also gave a lot of expensive money to get knowledge that they can also operate such devices and use chemicals in large quantities. What about the little grower? But the small grower is in the size of this back pump, maybe some larger appliances, maybe 50-litres? Probably, even if it is wrong, there is no ecological disaster or problem such as that of a great farmer. We're talking about environmental impacts, impacts on groundwater. I would like to point out in particular that groundwater is contaminated with other hazardous substances. Perhaps these are nitrates that have been the result of over-fertilization in recent years. And it is this area that governs the nitrate directive that has been adopted. And a record or some improvement in the situation in the field of fertilisation of Slovenian fields is already being established. Then a hypothetical question is asked. Let's say the neighbors, a large plantation with a thousand trees, say, and a few small growers with ten, fifteen trees. They will make sure that there will be no outbreaks of disease, this small farmer, who will not have access to funds, will in fact be a breeding ground for the disease at that time. And after a certain period of time, the disease can return to this large plantation and it will need another cycle more on its soil with this large sprinkler and the damage will be repeated. Some of the pesticides of the old generation are extremely long-term and are found in nature for several years. For years, they penetrate the earth with water and come into drinking water only after a few years. Thus, we may at times question the results of the analysis to see an old picture that may improve with this picture. Therefore, it is necessary to take all these rather frightening data with some reserve. Green winters were mentioned. Isn't green winter a real paradise for all these pests to survive? And green winter automatically causes maybe one or two cycles of more sprinkles in the next agricultural season. It was just the opposite last year. First, the severe winter, which began on December 3, ended only there around the May Day holidays and then the dry summer. For the small farmers I know, they've gone to orchards or vineyards a lot less. So last year was a very favorable year, and these funds were not used so massively. Perhaps this year will be worse; we did not see the snow until the end of January. A lot of hard words, I could say, have come from an eco-agricultural debate, which I think is on a voluntary basis. It would be desirable for it to expand as successfully as possible, to work as successfully as possible. But I think that goes to a certain percentage. Most Slovenian farmers, however, will grow in a traditional way. In addition, we have heard some contradictory claims today. We have very good, almost organic honey. That's one picture. However, the contradiction is that Slovenia is almost the most poisoned country with plant protection products, as I am not sure what terrible amounts of tonnes of starch they have had. Now it's possible or one or the other. The role of traders or responsible persons who will place these funds on the market in specialised shops is important. They need to be educated enough, they need to know how to advise, and they need to focus on who to sell to. By knowing their environment or their customers, their customers, they can also create an image of how funds are used. Natural substances are increasingly being developed, various wetlands are being made, but they have a very limited effect, but right here is a challenge for the plant protection product industry, why not concentrate that active substance or substance that is in some natural medicine. It is also in this area that challenges remain on a global and European scale. In addition to the risk of plant protection products, I might point to one more thing. In our wider area is the uranium mine Žirovski vrh in closing. There was work to be done until recently very domestically. Neither both hazardous heifers, where dangerous chemicals are in there, are due to the process, or even parts of the ore that were not industrially interesting, but are still harmful. Only in recent years will it be remedied in such a way that it is not possible to wash these dangerous substances into water and into the river Sor and later Sava and into the Danube basin. So there's more danger. We need to be aware of what surrounds us. It is precisely in this light that this new European directive, which has already been mentioned today, may already be in preparation, but by then there are likely to be two more agricultural seasons. If it goes into the process towards the end of the year, then the machinery will spin and it is in mid-2008, and the 2008 season can be delayed. These Directives provide for the promotion of the use of less hazardous substances, the simplification of registration procedures, the division of the EU into three zones where a country will fall by relation. Then the compatibility or preparations from the entire zone are useful and registered in all countries belonging to this zone. Right here, there may be some hope of being successful farmers, successfully coping with various scourges and diseases, while at the same time finding the right limit to a healthy life. Perhaps I would refer to the statements made by Mr Vice-President, who mentioned that it is likely that plant protection products should be used, that plant protection products have a detrimental effect on health and that this should be regulated by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you. Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! I'm answering for two reasons. One is that, since I was a fellow LDS member, according to her performance, currently an activist of the movement for justice and development, I have been attacked, convicted of having a direct interest in chemistry, economic interest and interest in profit. Another reason is to see in what is happening here, from most of the debates from the rest of the LDS, as well as the Social Democrats, that this law, which governs many things in this area, is that they try to exploit it as a demagogy in the field of environmental protection, environmental impacts and that many charlatans in this area are doing so. They exploit the extreme sensitivity of Slovenian people and the exceptional interest of people that Slovenia actually remains a friendly country in environmental matters to keep clean water in order to keep the untoxicated soil as clean as possible. I am sure that the proposal of this law is going this way. And that is also true of those officials of the previous 12 years who have actually acted against these people's interests. We have adopted a number of laws in the previous period, where I could, I could say, directly link to private interest, to economic interest, to the desire for profit. And they are now attacking with the position of eco-fundamentalism, green fundamentalism. And I must say that in Slovenia there are some green fundamentalists who abuse this sensitivity of the Slovenians. Talking here about how organic farming is supposed to solve all the problems. I come from farmers, I still know how to do everything, and I know that this is not a solution in the current situation. It is necessary in certain cases, here I agree with my colleague Juban, to accelerate this in isolated areas, but in fact, as has been said here, we cannot solve even Slovenian problems and we must move within realism, within the need to feed people both in Slovenia and in the world and maintain a perspective for the future. And these green fundamentalists, who are just as dangerous as Islamic fundamentalists and fundamentalists in all areas, because they run an unheard-of halo effect, and do not have a realistic view of life and state of affairs, I call on them to supply land and to come instead of driving to the Canary Islands, and they pollute the environment there, every Saturday to bury land, to give the owner 100,000 or 400 euros a year to pay taxes and to come and dig and then to say so. But this is also necessary at 30 degrees, just as we bathed when we were young and ate. And on the basis of this experience, let them speak and spread their demagogies. I, even though I'm a chemist, am not a lobbyist to sell these plant protection products under any circumstances. However, if gardeners are able to buy things in small packages that are going in the direction that they are such products that are less and less harmful, much will be done because they are now buying kilograms and there are 90 dags left, and they have then uncontrolledly thrown them into dumpsters and in other ways and have actually done damage to the environment and the unheard of consequences. I'm sure there's some progress here. And all the same people, I don't know, among them is our birthday girl, who is suddenly an outstanding specialist in plant protection products and all that. All of these do not realize that legislation must also be amended in this area and that it is only in this way that it is possible to take the right steps in the right direction. Even with regard to these economic interests that were obvious. The first to show a strong economic interest or additional activity in these professions belonging to the field of science among Members was their colleague Saiovic, who claimed that he could work, plus that the Member was also a veterinary worker on the ground. This has not been the case until now. He was established and, of course, supported by his colleagues, so let them sweep by their own kind. It is also about these interests and concerns about the integration of food production. I must say, when colleague Weber also attacked that in the past period, there has been great damage in this relationship, because by granting concessions to some of your kind, or to those close to, the tycoons, both for forest management, in the long term when you persisted, and in the permanent plantations, they have shown themselves in Slovenia to least take into account the long-term care of healthy food and the healthy environment. In some, however, there is only economic interest and profit, and you have granted concessions for a long time ineligible. And now to cry about the consequences of Nature 2000, which I agree with when you supported, because it was a government project Natura 2000. Now comes some of the consequences that colleague Weber is trying to bring to the present government, the current authorities. That way, once again, to start this panic between people, demagogy, it's useless. In this state, we have, last but not least, a strong industry of pharmaceuticals, plant protection products and also plant protection products such as Pinus and Agrochemia in Ruša, and in this way I think that we are also causing them long-term damage, less opportunities on the market, and we need to seek a balance between how we can be strong and able to compete in the international market in the processing of some of these products. With such uncritical propaganda, we do them harm. And we work in the same way of panic and concern among people, excessively, as was done years ago with regard to the storage of low radioactive waste. We may not be able to solve this problem in Slovenia, but I can say that low active waste, if properly stored, is absolutely not dangerous. But because of this hysteria, which was artificially caused, no place in Slovenia would want to accept them, even though many things could have been done in that place. And these are the unjustifiable fears of people who have been produced through such eco-fundamentalists, green fundamentalists, extremists. And that is why I also propose that in this law you also begin to separate the grain from the weeds, and that what was meant to be positive and is thought positive in the sense that there will be more control over these assets, that less will be thrown into bags, buckets and forests when people throw away because they will not hope for a legal disposal. In this direction these amendments and these articles of the law have been written and I support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u103	Comrade Jerovšek, thank you. Member Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Let me first ensure that I support the amendment and at the same time ensure that I do not support the law. At the same time, I would like to ensure that this is not directed in any way against agriculture and not against farmers. I'm going to help myself read what the billmakers wrote. In the introduction, the state assessment states that since the structure of agriculture in Slovenia is very fragmented and diversified, agricultural processing on shelters and smaller agricultural areas is also unprofessionally concerned with a certain number of people who are employed elsewhere and who are not educated. I'm against these kinds of people being able to open doors wide enough to mass-use plant protection products that are potentially dangerous. Those who speak of agriculture have missed the point. This isn't about agriculture. Those who oppress weeds on railway tracks are not farmers. And when they do, they work organized and controlled. Those who may produce potatoes on a few square metres at their house or even in a flower pot may also withdraw the colored beetle with their hand, do not need to pour much or otherwise be suppressed with dangerous substances of this colored bug. I am simply against this law opening the door to greater use of plant protection products. This law does not reduce the use of plant protection products, which would be necessary. This law does not increase the control over their application, which would also be necessary. This law does not consider the integral cumulative consequences that all begin with us, our aggression against nature and end with various consequences, either through water or through the accumulated means that we use with food or in any other way, and we endanger our own health, which would otherwise be of quality, even without these plant protection products. The circle begins and concludes with us, so we need to be careful when we regulate our activities in this area. And as the law stipulates, our conduct is bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you. Member Marjetka Uhan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Returning the marriage to its original state was said by one of the amendments' proponents. What, though, is the original state of marriage? It is already under the 2001 law, and you did not fix it in 2004 so that plant protection products can also be bought in flower shops and grocery stores. But nowhere does it say who can get them or what, even in these unspecialized stores. And it happens in practice that in a flower shop, a florist can sell a substance, whatever the client wants or has at his disposal, including funds that are marked as dangerous. We also saw on TV yesterday products that were marked as dangerous products. And that is exactly what this bill wants to complete, namely, that only those users with professional knowledge can be made available in specialized stores, and that in non-specialised shops only funds that are not dangerous to humans, people and nature are not marked by dangerous signs. All the funds are dangerous, of course, if we overdose them, and so on. But we can't find the purple here. These signs, markings are international, have some meaning and we simply have to believe in Slovenia, even though we are going to an oasis of health and I do not know what is in the middle of Europe. However, I must say that in New Slovenia we are also against the use of sprinklers just as easily, without knowledge, mass use and so on. Who, though, advocates this from members of the coalition or those who have been told that we will uphold the law? However, we are against black imports, against illegal imports, against flat-rate estimates. And it happens that, for example, Mr Komat is operating by spending 7,777 tonnes per hectare of starch. Those involved know that all records should be kept to a milligram. And when I asked about FURS, about this Phytosanitary Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, how many are registered, they said that there is approximately 1100 to 1,300 tonnes of consumption per year. So, what's the difference? Is someone making up so much of these resources to be spent, or is there so much black imports? In fact, we must not close our eyes. Black imports are, in particular, for assets not registered in Slovenia, from Austria, Italy. Ask wine growers and growers from Primorska, where they go for plant protection products not registered in Slovenia, and they are urgently needed. I had a feeling that one MP was almost offended by the withdrawal of the amendment. But it was from this parliamentary group that a proposal came, an initiative for the ministry to recognise the funds registered in the neighbouring country, for example, to store fruit. And why don't our fruit growers get it? They replied - all Members or members of the committee received this reply - and it is mainly evident that these funds, which are elsewhere in force, cannot come to Slovenia in this way and cannot be used by anyone, that a known person needs to be treated and that the law applies, and then the final use of waste packaging or emulsion. However, to suggest that today, when you ask for recognition of this asset, you would tell which user, how much and when it will use it. How, though, can a fruit farmer today know if it will be possible or if it will require a chemical dilution of the fruit tree in the spring? In winter like this, it'll probably be cold before it's blooming. And then even if it's flowering, it's not always the need to dilute, or it's very different, depending on the year, the fruit, and so on. There's no need for such bureaucracy. However, it is enough that we have this permission to request that the store or company dealing with this and to keep records and that our country is in control of the use, quantity and control of the crops afterwards. I also find it unacceptable or misleading for the public to operate on kilograms of consumption to increase. Kilograms are not yet a criterion for pollution. Let me tell you a case. In organic farming, a significantly higher quantity of plant protection product for the same disease may be used for the same effect, which is more environmentally acceptable than conventional but significantly higher. Like ashtray mold, for example, in conventional production or in the production of topaz. And that's why we can't operate on kilograms. As regards the greater choice of plant protection products, this does not mean that more plant protection products will be used. However, we will have a greater choice to exchange preparations for the same disease and to avoid resistance, resistance to harmful organisms, and to reduce environmental pressure in the long term. Maybe just a word about organic production. I must say that organic production, at least market production, is not without the use of plant protection products and is misleading and that it is essential and that we cannot afford these foods by quantity or by financial means. However, I am interested in who is really behind those who oppose this novel law and who are daily buying all this imported food in our food centres, which is essentially bloated, beautiful in view, and nothing is protesting that it is produced in exactly the same way and with exactly the same means that we are going to give them, let's say, an import permit or a much more rigorous way. We will support these changes. But we will not support the amendments. I don't think we're going to do any harm to beekeepers or organic farming, but maybe go to normal farming conditions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you. Member Pavel Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I agree with this, perhaps there will be more dangerous substances, such as pesticides, herbicides and similar things, the insinuation of our esteemed colleague Joseph Jerovšek, who has not said anything about the problem we are dealing with today and what is the problem, but much about people who have a different opinion, in a very discriminatory way. I won't follow this path. But I would like to draw attention to some things because they are important. There's no other colleague, Comrade Sok in there. I'd like to look at his arguments first. He performed a typical, so-called bridge argument. When we said that we are opposed to using these resources, because we think it's damaging to water, he moved the problem by saying, of course, water is a problem, but it's not what you're saying, but it's what's wrong with climate change, precipitation and so on. What did he do with it? He moved the argument from the problem we are dealing with today to another problem, which is also real, climate change, in a way like climate change is tying us to our responsibilities to defend water in all, including other areas. And that's not good. And it's like hunger. Surely we know that the so-called Green Revolution has fed a large number of people. Surely we also know about the unsolicited consequences of the Green Revolution. More and more energy units need to be invested in food production in order to obtain an additional unit of energy from food production. We know that. Sadly, this has also resulted in hunger, both in Africa and elsewhere. The fact is, the world has never produced so much food, but there have never been so many hungry people in the world. But it's not even the pesticides, it's the other things I can't talk about here today. This debate today, like the debate on the previous law, has an ethical dimension. And it is only right that we warn them, and I will not argue with my colleague Soko, grateful that he has opened this ethical dimension. He said he was a creationist. He believes and has the right to believe, and I support him that he believes that some power of God, if you will, God, created man and gave him and created living and living things to subdue them. This is a long-standing position. And it was this position of creationist, that meant that in this way we excluded ourselves as extraordinary beings of nature, stood above nature, and today we pay the price. If we do not realize that we are different from some segments of a living and non-living nature, that we are part of that nature at the same time, then we will be in a bad way. The thesis on human exclusion is a very dangerous thesis, and today there is no majority support, at least among those people who think five minutes ahead and five years or ten years ahead. I'm not an exaggerated visionary, and time doesn't allow me to do that. I'm a pessimistic rationalist. And that means that I know that for a long time, even though we would like to, we will not be able to avoid the use of certain plant protection products. That we want them to be as few as possible, that we want them to be as less aggressive as possible. But the point that we have said today is that we do not oppose the urgent use where it is not necessary where the economy of this country is not affected by national interest. We're strengthening the water today, and we're gonna do it, and we're cleaning it up, but we don't have to do it, and I'm warning you. That's why I don't think such a law is good. At the same time, of course, I must say, as did my colleague Juban. Article 4, the amendment of the coalition, probably written on the initiative of the Ministry, will be supported by taking ours if you want, including my debate on the Committee on Agriculture, and we will support this amendment. Also the second amendment to Article 6 if our amendment is not adopted. But nevertheless, these are changes that will not be enough to actually prevent the fear and dangers arising from this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you, too. Comrade Juice, replica, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Just for a little while, but I need to fix my respectable colleague Gantar. What he attributed to me, I never said that I would say here that only a man is supernatural, you didn't hear that from me. If they had listened to me, they would have heard me say quite differently, that man was not exempt from nature, that man was part of this nature, but that he was given to subject himself to this creation, but that he was, of course, acting in the realm of God’s commandments, he was saying that he was not exploiting it, but that, according to his conscience, he was caring for the whole creation, and that he was regulating it in an appropriate way. So, the supernatural is, of course, to conclude, I can only God, by no means human.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you. Member Bojan Homan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Look, the law allows for the sale of harmless plant protection products in stores. What does that mean? This means that practically plant protection products in Slovenia will not increase, sales will not increase, but will decrease, as is the case in the European Union market. The law is in line with European legislation. I am pleased that people are increasingly aware that these funds are harmful and that they are being used more and more consciously. But if we go, as is spoken here, after the complete withdrawal of plant protection products, then we go back to the year 60 or so, but the law somehow regulates, it specifies exactly who can buy, who can use, how can use. But I'm glad it's on sale for those little consumers. Here comes the role of merchants who will have to play their part in this game. If someone comes into the store and says, "I want to spray it," and that's what this disease has, it's the job of the trader to say, you, my friend, listen, we have a natural preparation for this, you're gonna do, you're gonna do less damage, and if he convinces me, I'm gonna buy it. But if the merchant doesn't convince me, he'll reach for the shelf, after what he's got, he'll offer it to me and sell it to me. And here's the point. But for large consumers, it is normal that they will have to do it, not by hand, but by lace, as they used to say in here. Of course they'll use it. But they are also so aware that they use significantly less. Even for healers, who thought that the law of medicine would be, but who thought that humans would study themselves so quickly and interfere with natural remedies? Nobody. But people are waking up and it's going on and I'm glad that this is changing and I'm going to bet that in 10, 15 years we will surely be so aware that these plant protection products in Slovenia or in the whole European space will be significantly less. It is in everyone’s interest to eat and enjoy healthy, healthy food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you. Given that we have exhausted the list of applicants, I will reopen the procedure if any other Members or Members wish to discuss the first amendment. Here you go, please. There's no desire to discuss it anymore. I conclude the debate on Article 1 and the two amendments. We are moving on to the debate on Article 2 and the amendment of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group. I'm opening the procedure. Here you go. Member Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If I were a minister, I would propose or act in such a way as to suggest to my coalition Members that they support these amendments. What's this all about? Article 2 states that the evaluation of the active substances of plant protection products may also be carried out by the public service operator referred to in Article 35 of this Act or by a "trained assessor from experts in the field of environmental impact assessment of plant protection products" and so on, "unless at the same time a member of the Commission for plant protection products referred to in Article 20 of this Act". It means that we are opposed to the fact that the public service provider would also be an expert in the registration of plant protection products. Both the ministry and coalition colleagues, try to agree until the vote that this solution is not good. If the Minister does not wish to have problems with his subordinates at any time - and I do not mean anything in particular now - then this solution is not good and it would be good if this amendment of ours is supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on Article 2. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the two amendments of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. I'm opening a debate on the three amendments. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening the procedure. As part of our first application, we have two members of Parliament and a representative of the Government. I give my word to Ambassador Milenk Ziherl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. As has already been said on the Agriculture Committee itself, I also now agree with this proposed solution. The proposal for very frequent technical inspections was mainly based on outdated technologies and devices that people had. However, these times have passed and the current new devices, I think it is quite the right solution that immediately after purchase no inspection is necessary for the first three years and then for two years. And this solution seems very appropriate to me. Compared with other devices or machines, for example, if we go straight to cars, there is no four-year technical inspection for a new car, because we predict and can reasonably count that the machine is so sophisticated that it will not cause problems for four years. After the same analogy, we can also transfer this to machines and devices intended for the application of plant protection products. In addition, it is only important for these devices to be well cleaned and preserved after use, because their use is very limited periodically, because this agricultural season and most of the time are resting, so they cannot even be used so quickly, the parts cannot be used so quickly. I therefore support the amendments tabled by the coalition parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you. Member Geza Juban has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. The solution we adopted on the Committee, which is part of the amended bill, seemed inappropriate. It is not sufficiently defined and it is not precisely defined. This also led to our proposal to the amendments to delete the article. Since we received the amendment of the coalition groups or possibly the ministry during this time, it seems to me that this solution is sufficiently defined, two or three years, and an exception which must be made due to certain types of sprinklers that cannot be inspected and treated in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you. As we say, the government's representative gets the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. Finally, I would like to point out, or say, once again, the intention of the proposer to amend this law. In particular, I would like to point out that the proposed amendments do not in any way alter the basic principles of the 2001 Plant Safety Act, supplemented in 2004, which is actually made in accordance with European legislation or specific European Directive 91.414. It is said that the proposed amendment should not be taken out of this context, but should be seen as a whole of a law that is in line with European law. About the way we sold, which was so much talk and controversy. In fact, the law has exactly the opposite purpose as it appears in the public eye. The law in force in 2001 allows anyone who has an exam or training to buy anything. We have heard from the debate that it is actually desirable and that agriculture must be separated from non-professional use. And it is precisely with the proposal for amendments to this law that we want to achieve this. That is why we want to upgrade the law in force with this matter. In this way, by allowing a separate programme of plant protection products for non-professional users, by stressing that funds that do not have a health and environmental hazard sign would, in fact, prevent or reduce the use by non-professional users of hazardous plant protection products intended for trained people in large packagings. However, if there is no choice, if there is no double system, then everyone will intervene on everything and it will achieve exactly the opposite purpose that we want. More than once, Slovenia is part of a common European space that has no internal borders. As such, Slovenia must also behave or behave accordingly. For small market producers of certain cultures for which nothing is actually available in Slovenia to protect against diseases and pests, it is essentially necessary to have legal access to these funds. These funds will otherwise be acquired in Italy, Austria, or elsewhere by suspicious or less suspicious means. The proposed law allows them to obtain funds in a legal manner with Slovenian label, with Slovenian instructions, which certainly leads to a more proper and safe use. In this way, it can also improve control, allowing for more records, which is certainly an improvement of the current system. Finally, I would like to mention that the EU legislation already mentioned several times, which is actually being adopted in the European Parliament or in the world, is actually introducing or will have these solutions, which are so controversial here today. In fact, it introduces a system of compulsory mutual recognition of the registration of countries which are in one of the same climate zones and, on the other hand, the division of sales for professional users and non-professional users. In fact, the proposed amendments do not conflict with European legislation or with the trends and directions that are taking place in this area. Therefore, we believe that these proposed changes actually constitute a new positive step, and therefore we believe that the findings flying on these changes are in fact unfounded, because they have no relation to the proposal for a law, but they are a general opinion on pesticides and some general opinion, which has no basis in the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you, too. Would any other of the present Members and Members of Parliament like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote or no later than half an hour after the conclusion or termination of the 13th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Government for their participation and clarifications. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Traffic Act. The hearing shall take place on an urgent basis. I would like to inform you that we have a four-hour and 40-minute debate on this item. The draft law has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly, so I give the floor to the Minister of Transport, Mag. Janez Christmas. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act is prepared in such a way that it implements the European Union directives in this field in our legal order. Directive 2004/51-EC fully implements Directives 2004/50-EC and 2004/49-EC in part as they will be fully implemented by the new Railway Safety Act. The proposal for a law in accordance with those Directives lays down the main players in rail transport and, at the same time, remedys the shortcomings observed in the implementation of the current Railway Act. The proposed organisation is in line with the requirements of the Directives of the European Union and ensures the independence of the various actors. The following railway-related bodies and organisations are therefore envisaged. The Ministry of Transport shall carry out the tasks of the regulatory authority, confirm the timetable and establish a notified body which shall issue certificates of conformity and other authorisations for the operation of railway subsystems. The Ministry of Transport also consists of the Directorate for Investment in Public Railway Infrastructure, which will lead investments in public railway infrastructure. The investigation body, as an internal organisational unit of the Ministry, then conducts investigations into railway accidents and other exceptional events with a view to improving rail safety. The public railway agency shall carry out the tasks of the security authority and the authority to ensure a non-discriminatory approach to railway infrastructure. Slovenian railways carry out the tasks of the manager of public railway infrastructure and of the carrier. Representatives of the proposed law have closely coordinated the proposals of the amendments, with which the opinion of this service was almost fully taken into account by the Transport Committee meeting with the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. As a result, amendments were put in place to correct and improve the text of the bill. In preparing the amendments, the debate of Members was also taken into account at the meeting of the Committee on Transport. The proposed amendments were also adopted by the Transport Committee. We have already received a reasoned opinion from the European Commission on the non-implementation of Directive 2004/51, which is essentially a reminder before the European Court of Justice. The Republic of Slovenia replied that the proposal for a railway law will be adopted in the National Assembly by the end of 2006. If the draft law is adopted at this meeting, we anticipate that the Commission will not initiate or stop proceedings against the Republic of Slovenia in the Court of Justice of the European Union. As a result, the proposed consideration of the draft law under the urgency procedure was proposed, since in the event of the suspension of compliance with the requirements laid down in those Directives, there may have been difficult remedial effects on the country which could arise, in particular, as a result of possible claims for compensation against the Republic of Slovenia. In the opinion of the applicant, the law correctly implements the provisions of those Directives of the European Union and provides for the organisation of individual authorities or actors in rail transport to ensure their independence and effective performance. We therefore propose that the amended draft law be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. I ask the Committee member, Mr Srečko Hvauc, to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! At its 17th urgent meeting on 18.12.2006, 19.1.2007 and 24.1.2007, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Transport carried out an examination of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Rail Transport submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on an urgent basis on 5.12.2006. The proposed law was given a written opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service on 18.12.2006 and then an additional opinion on the amendments tabled on 24.1.2007. Given the scope of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Committee decided to end and continue the discussion on the proposal on the law when the conditions for discussion on the individual articles of the proposal were met. In view of the large number of amendments, the Committee decided to continue its consideration at its next meeting, on 24.1.2007. The proposed amendments and additions to the current law transpose the requirements of Directive 2004/49 and Directive 2004/51 into our legal order while also regulating changes in the organisation of the operation of the system of Slovenian Railways and the delimitation of powers between Slovenian Railways, between the Public Agency for Rail Transport and between the Ministry of Transport. As a result of the provisions of individual directives, the proposed solutions for the establishment of a security authority, a regulatory authority and an investigative body are proposed. Under the new regime, the Public Agency for Rail Transport will carry out all functions that provide a non-discriminatory approach to railway infrastructure for carriers, namely, use, licences and train paths, the safety and railway management function, namely the tasks of the security authority and the further functions of control over carriers and preparation and the issuance of regulations and the implementation of measures relating to the application of technical specifications. Slovenian railways will act as infrastructure manager, perform economic public services, and will also be responsible for safe and regulated rail transport. In addition, they will carry out transport in passenger and freight transport. In addition to its core functions, the Ministry of Transport will also lead investments in public rail infrastructure and the related acquisition of funds from the European Structural Funds. To this end, a new Directorate will be established to manage investments in public rail infrastructure. The Ministry of Transport will also carry out the tasks of the regulatory authority. The law provides that Slovenian railways will be a re-unifying company, as well as provisions allowing for a public-private partnership on investment in public rail infrastructure. The debate has shown that the new deadline for implementing the Directives has actually expired and the adoption of the law is therefore necessary. The debate also drew attention to the poor business results of Slovenian railways, which urgently call for changes in organisation and the delimitation of competence between individual segments within this rail system. The discussion also focused on the headquarters of the Agency and the new Directorate for Investment in Railway Infrastructure, which is intended to be in both cases in Maribor, and on the possibility of transferring staff from the Agency to newly created bodies. Following consideration, the Committee adopted all amendments by the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS, which in the vast majority followed the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, the amendment of Milan Petka to Article 40 and the Friends' happiness to Article 44. He rejected all the other amendments of Ambassador Milan Petk, who had intervened in the concept of the law itself. The Committee also adopted two of its amendments, namely Article 39, which provided for the transition of workers from AŽP to the Ministry of Transport or to the administrator; and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the situation of long-term loans was established in January 2007 and, in the end, the Committee voted on all the articles of the law together and adopted them. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. My colleague, Jožef Horvat, will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary with colleagues and colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Our position will be based on our common ground, on our common knowledge, and this is that the situation on Slovenian railways is alarming or all the more so than European in technical and organisational terms. It is therefore high time that we also face the most serious problem of the Slovenian Railway System in the National Assembly. The Slovenian rail network, covering slightly more than 1,200 kilometres of one- and two-tier lines, needs to be thoroughly reconstructed in terms of providing greater transport capacity and in terms of increased safety. There is an urgent need for immediate investment in Slovenian railway infrastructure, or we can really find that the key European railway routes will cross us. Who will be responsible? The law on rail transport was adopted in 1999. On the basis of the European rail directives, the Republic of Slovenia has joined the process of gradually adapting the Slovenian rail system to EU regulation. The change in Slovenian rail legislation in 2002 was adopted in the shadow of the deep business crisis of the then Slovenian Railways, a company of shares, quite inadequately interpreted the requirements of the European directives and uncritically addressed the safety, unity and rationality of rail transport in the Republic of Slovenia. The consequences of the change are reflected in the inadequate and irrational division of labour between the Railway Agency as the operator and the railway as the authorised operators, the fragmentation of already sensitive professional capacities, the lack of funding, notably from the European Structural Funds and consequently the overall deterioration of the state of public railway infrastructure, the lack of documentation for key development projects, the irrational performance of tasks in the domestic and international environment, and in significantly greater administration, higher costs and confusion, which also arise in relation to business partners. It is unacceptable that, despite the law adopted in February 2003, the subsidiaries of Holding of Slovenian Railways have not yet entered into business. The reason is that the delimitation of powers between the Slovenian Railway Holding and newly established subsidiaries has not yet been regulated. Therefore, the necessary acts, which form the basis for the transition of workers to subsidiaries, were not adopted. Nor were the procedures for coordination with the social partners provided for in the applicable labour legislation in such a case. In the New Slovenia Group, we are aware of the seriousness of the situation in the Slovenian rail system. We believe that the proposed amendment to the Rail Transport Act is an important step towards remedying the situation. We're sending word that we're going to support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you, too. My colleague, Kristijan Janc, will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Surely only the Slovenian Government cannot produce positive results on Slovenian railways, and even less we, respected colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly. The results can only be provided by those who will later implement this new proposed law on Slovenian railways. The management of the company must ensure an appropriate change in mentality, and trade unions and labour directors should only accept their role and Slovenian railways can only successfully manage well-trained management. The issue of Slovenian railways is a topic that we have been discussing for a very long time, I think, especially for too long, since the existing situation is causing great damage to Slovenian railways, does not contribute to the reputation of Slovenia in the European Union, but at the same time causes the use of budget money, which is often, at least, ineffective to me. Of course, some serious emphasis is needed on important topics. Much attention is paid to Slovenian railways and is perfectly appropriate in our everyday life, as we are all aware of the history in the field of Slovenian Railways, what the situation is now and that the situation calls for the immediate or early adoption of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rail Transport. This is now, according to our assessment, according to many of the coordination and final consensus between the ministries of government and also between Members of Parliament, relatively high support. We are convinced that the law, however, is the right step forward, one step along the way from this existing law, which, according to our assessment, has not yet achieved the desired goal. Clearly, the model set did not give what the Government and Parliament were trying to achieve in the field of the development of Slovenian railways. We are convinced that the first important step has been taken with the 29 billion provided for Slovenian railways, which has not yet been achieved by any government since the independence of Slovenia. The second step is undoubtedly the adoption of this proposed law today. But we can't go blind here. The law is just the basis, is a framework, the law cannot replace work in the company of Slovenian Railways. The law cannot replace the management of this company. No law can provide anyone with good management or developmental orientation; the law can only make it possible. As it is said, the results cannot be produced by the Government, but even less by us Members. The results can only be provided by those who are employed in the Slovenian Railways, those who will implement this law. And here something needs to be said very clearly in this National Assembly: the management of the company must ensure proper reorganisation in the operation and, above all, in the mentality of the Slovenian Railways. Of course, the role of trade unions and labour directors is important, and they must also carry out their tasks. However, we must also make it clear that there is no successful company led by the union, these times have long passed. There is probably no need to discuss the splendor of those times. Perhaps these words are too much for someone, but it is undeniable that one of the key assumptions for better conditions on Slovenian railways is also strong leadership, with a clear vision and not least with strong authority. In the crisis, and this one on the railways has been going on for a long time, it is necessary to take decisive action. This will also have to be done by Slovenian railway workers. Otherwise, Slovenian railways are condemned to a poor image and perhaps even more. However, since Slovenian railways play an important role for the entire Slovenian economy and development, their development is needed immediately. The proposed law introduces many innovations, which are due to European demands on the one hand and also to the chaotic situation on Slovenian railways on the other. One of the most important is the distribution of tasks or roles in the rail system. Here I would not like to repeat what changes are made to the law, since they have been and will be repeatedly stressed today in this National Assembly. Let me stress the security that is certainly our common concern and must come first. Of course, there is no security without professional staff and money. And this is what the state is now providing, providing or enabling the adoption of the law. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the law brings good solutions; last but not least, the proposed law has been created as a result of the work of many experts and experts, but we also have to trust, because we do not know this nor do we know these things. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we hope that the holding will receive new leadership as soon as possible and that the law will achieve its objectives, including the Law on Public-Private Partnership, which we have adopted in this National Assembly, is certainly an opportunity for Slovenian Railways. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed law, including all the amendments adopted by the Transport Committee of the National Assembly, and in particular the desire to stabilise the situation in the Slovenian Railways as soon as possible and prepare for the major challenges of the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you. My colleague Srečko Friend will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the National Assembly we have the first law after a long time, which really wants to solve the problems that plague the actual system of the Slovenian Railway Holding. It is true that we have voted a guarantee law for borrowing credits of 99.6 billion tolars, a considerable debt for Slovenia, but it should be stressed that none of these funds are tolled into the Slovenian Railway System. This appropriation is intended to cover the reconstruction, restoration of the long-term railway infrastructure and, as has already been said, together with all the money that Europe intends to give to the credits that Slovenia will also take, is one third more investment in the rail system than it has received in the motorway programme. And what would happen if this law were not adopted today? The 2004/49 Directive of the European Community requires us, that Directive 51/EC, that we actually need to normalise the work process as well as the implementation of European legislation into our legal system. If we did not do so, then this means that, in accordance with Article 266 of the EC Treaty, a court procedure can be initiated, as the Minister has already said, and this can constitute a loss of large financial resources for Slovenia. Slovenia has been running late for several years with this law, and I find it difficult that we are only making these decisions today. At the same time, I would like to tell you what this law will do if we adopt it. It is true that he was fundamentally ill-prepared, that we had a large number of amendments on his parent's working body and it is right that we have accepted these amendments, and it is right that we have followed the amendments that were essentially submitted by both the opposition and the coalition. Of course, in the Slovenian National Party, we will support this law together with these amendments. So the one proposed today, with changes to the government's changes to the law. And what will we do when we support this? See what this law allows us - to build a second track immediately! The Slovenian economy is calling for this. And it is irresponsible of all of us to essentially delay this problem, this transport route so long into the future. The electrification of Hodoš, which is the only connecting route for the eastern part of Europe, to Hungary. Urgent, very urgent. Then actually provide 22.5 tonnes of basic pressure. We know the locomotives can't drive from the Wall Bridge today. These interoperable locomotives. And that when some people say they are acquaintances; even today you will hear a lot of smart discussions, from various "experts", in saying, of course, and nicely said deception. If we don't do this, then we'll lose our battle in time. Today, the cargo takes us to the Pontebian track and we are losing today, and I am also glad that the minister has listened to this problem, because since 1970 we have essentially a large sum of money that the host has not returned in terms of long-term and short-term loans. And if we were able to write off these loans in almost every company, this should also be done on Slovenian railways. Successively by the end of this House's term of office, these governments, we can certainly find this possibility. And I'm glad that the Minister actually supported this proposal. From this place again, thank you very much. What happened when this government took over the Department of Transportation, we know. The biggest budget gap was in this area. And Mr Bayuk still has a headache today, and I believe they must fight within the Transport Ministry for every tolar on the railway. These are famous stories. And it is not right that the spears break right on the Slovenian Railway Holding, which is currently breaking all records during this period. Interesting. Freight traffic with the status we have today, technically, a security situation, essentially has the largest discharge. And if we are talking about abandoning actual prevention and increasing checks, then we can also find with certainty that we are also reducing the security situation on Slovenian railways. And the general safety, orderliness and safety of rail transport is one that dictates the immediate adoption of this law. And I hope, dear colleagues and colleagues, that wisdom will prevail today and that we will adopt this law together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr Rezman will give his views to the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u132	Thank you very much. In our DeSUS Group, we feel that this story around the Rail Traffic Act is a story of delay, but it probably doesn't make much sense to talk about it anymore. These are simple facts. It is only to hope that the consequences of this delay will be as modest as possible, that we will not be burdened too much in the future. But it is probably right to point out how much better it would be if, in various attempts to solve problems, they were more timely, more careful, more precise, more decisive, if they were to shorten the response time required by certain problems, and if delays were not as late as they are now. Now it has simply happened to us that because of these delays - not only on the substantive side, but also on the ground - we have been warned that we are even apprehensive and that we have come into a situation where we refer to urgency. Emergency procedures are not in themselves good, as it is clear that they are reducing the possibility of a broader consideration, which is also reducing time for these considerations. And when this is the case, mistakes can be more frequent. We ourselves in the DeSUS Group in this consideration of the new bill have been addressing some of the issues that we have been asking ourselves. First of all, the question is whether it is what we have also taken up in the coalition treaty, whether it is the decentralisation of some essential institutions in our country or whether it is an increase in the influence of the country. We wondered whether it was an appropriate consideration or possibly a conflict of the proposal concerning directives. We don't hope to judge that today. We'll wait to see what the response will be. We hope he'll be appropriate. We also wondered whether or not this proposed law caused the distortion of the competitive market and wondered what it might have or could have direct consequences for the efficiency of the rail system, what impact it might have on business transparency, on more correct and better, better governance than we have known before, and what will ultimately be the results of business. We estimate that it is good that there has been a deviation from what has been offered first. The more the divorce, the more the bill was acceptable to us. We estimate that it is a matter of adequate separation of business functions, which allows greater transparency and better control, and we hope that there is also greater responsibility for the management of systems. It allows competition, but we do not know what this competition, which should have been in force for some time, free competition, will mean for our Slovenian railways; we do not hope to think about the worst scenarios. It may also be good to keep jobs administratively and to maintain the modest decentralisation of institutions in Slovenia, as regards staff, material conditions and finances, and consequently affect important decisions. We note that there has been a violent storm that has accompanied the adoption of this legislation to a mere light piss and that opposition is as snow. We hope that the reasons for this are not only those that are concluded between political partners, but that the reasons are professional and that they will be sustained in a long-term manner and that we will not be burdened by concerns when we have to re-examine our decisions in a few years' time. The DeSUS Group will not oppose this law, although it intended to oppose the first variants proposed. Of course, after considering the amendments proposed today, it is likely that the law will also fully support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u133	Thank you. Ambassador Maria Possonec will give the position of the national community. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for a law will give effect to certain directives, namely Directive No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 2004 Each of the key entities in the rail system, namely the Ministry of Transport, the Public Agency for Rail Transport and the Slovenian Railways, will be given those functions that are compatible with their role under the directives and can also be optimally implemented. In order to carry out the tasks successfully, it will also be necessary to strengthen the professional human resources potential of the entities described. The implementation of the basic activities will be re-legislative to the Slovenian Railways Holding and the complementary activities will remain dependent on the company. The adoption of the law will solve passenger transport services while the problem of goods transport services remains partially unresolved, where the market for services is also open. It is right to resolve organisational problems before the development tasks ahead of Slovenian railways. That's why I'm happy to support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u135	Thank you. My colleague, Jože Tanko, will give his position to the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. We can say 'and yet it is moving' because the coalition has gone to rescue one of the toughest and most demanding nuts that are before Slovenian politics and against transport, economic, financial and other professions. The railways have so far been a pastor who has been pushed by governments to rob and left to inertia. On the railways, all policies have broken their teeth, all stakeholders have failed, and more or less all the management teams set up to get the railways on a healthy path have failed. Leaderships were under-supported, perhaps too weak, but too small and, above all, too little planned, was a country that had not been able to provide even the most urgent means of maintaining the system until that mandate, not only to systematically ensure an effective technological modernisation and competitive development of the rail system. Therefore, the inherited condition on the railways is extremely poor. The national programme for the development of railway infrastructure, which was adopted in 1996, which envisioned a number of updates and construction of a second track by 2000, was implemented in 15-20%. There's no ghost or hearing about the second track. With a new mandate, at the end of 2004, the government's policy and attitude towards railways changed significantly. First of all, it has provided the missing billions for the operation of the rail system in the 2005 and 2006 budgets, namely for the most urgent maintenance measures, for the public service, for the repayment of credits and for something else. These funds were simply forgotten by the previous Government to introduce into these two budgets, thus creating a dedicated hole on non-railways. At the end of 2006, the Guarantee Act, which provides for the first hundred billion to make the most urgent investments in the fifth and tenth corridors, for some other sections and to ensure its own participation in drawing on European funds, was adopted. An agency has also started to operate, which has, among other things, managed to make two calls. Thus, the right steps have been taken in the right direction. With the amendment of this law, we want to incorporate the European Union directives into our railway legislation. It is therefore necessary to restructure the organisation of the whole railway system, to ensure non-discriminatory access for foreign carriers, to introduce certain new bodies and to ensure their independence, and consequently to determine the different competences of the Agency and Slovenian railways, and to organise Slovenian railways otherwise. Given that the restoration and upgrading of the obsolete rail network will be the far largest supply that Slovenia has so far made, namely, about €9 billion, it makes sense to set up a Directorate under the auspices of the Ministry of Transport, which will effectively and consistently carry out investments and also transparently. Many resources will also need to be made available from European Union resources, and particularly strong contributions are expected from the public-private partnership, and it is also necessary to adapt the law's solutions. Realisation of the law will be the most difficult for Slovenian railways, as the law clearly places it in an equal position with foreign competition and opens the game with foreigners on domestic routes and also for so-called domestic cargoes from Luka Koper. Setting up the rail system will test whether we are able to overcome a number of partial and unhealthy interests that have so far hampered the development of the railway hub. These interests need to be transformed and redirected into a common goal if we sincerely want this project to be the pride of the state. I hope that everyone who has taken care of the unrest and the production of the problems so far will be able to have sufficient discretion to achieve an effective and competitive system, which the country will be proud of. However, for these objectives it will be necessary to change a lot of things and this will not be easy and easy. It has provided a good response to the European Union's transport policy requirements and thus represents the best approach so far to solving the accumulated problems on Slovenian railways. I hope that the adoption of the law will also avoid penalties for delays in the implementation of the directives. In the parliamentary group, we will support the law and amendments of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you. Colleague Milan Petek will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u138	Good-bye, everybody! Unlike the predecessors, my performance will not be as homogeneous, kind as it has been so far, but very critical. With the rare law or amendments to the laws we have dealt with in this mandate of the National Assembly, the Government has shown such underestimation of Parliament and parliamentary procedure as is the case with the Rail Transport Act, which we are considering at today's meeting. Instead of the previous presentation of the draft law, the broad public and professional debate and subsequent parliamentary hearings following a regular procedure, the Government on 6 December put into discussion the amendment and supplementation of the Rail Transport Act following an urgent procedure. The consequences of such underestimation have been called on five times, a two-time suspension of the meeting of the Home Transport Committee and at the end of this part of the procedure of the 49 articles of the Law amended 29 articles with a total of 50 amendments to their own, i.e. the initial draft law. Farsa, which has not yet been experienced in Parliament, is a farce with a law that is fundamentally interfering with the organisation of the whole railway system, opens up European competition rail infrastructure, with a law that can have a fatal impact on the competitiveness and social situation of the employees in them and raises questions about the rational use of taxpayers' funds. The denial four years ago of a referendum decision on the holding organisation of the Slovenian Railways and the non-compliance with certain directives of the European Union is a collateral damage already suffered by the Minister and the Government. There was something else in this procedure that was symptomatic. The Ministry of Transport, through the leadership of the coalition, has also slowly broken the resistance and perseverance of some coalition Members, who at the beginning of the hearing ensured that they would insist on a European comparable organisation of the Slovenian Railways, as the previous law had already commanded. The government with the carrots offered to them, which was the seat of the newly formed Investment Management Directorate in Maribor, softened their resistance and finally buried them. Thinking that the law, once adopted, will in itself resolve the long-standing agony of the Slovenian Railways and quickly improve the situation on infrastructure are, of course, mistaken. In 2002, the Robbery Government launched a reorganisation process, which was confirmed by a referendum decision. All the period from the date of the decision taken at that time, and to date, some railway unions, which are their leaders, have been known, and influential individuals of the Slovenian Railways have been hampered by the actual implementation of the adopted law, and this path has been successfully followed by the current Government, the Ministry of Transport and the authorities appointed by it. For two years, all of them needed to be able to present not a new law to the National Assembly, as expected, but to amend and supplement the current law on rail transport. This form was used only to justify the urgency of the parliamentary procedure. The concept and solutions have been clear since the beginning. In doing so, the government has a perfidious justification for the need to adopt legislation in order to implement European directives. It is true that some articles and some bodies need to be adapted or re-formed, but not those which are essential in the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law. In so doing, in the LDS, we are referring to the unnecessary integration of now-dependent companies of the Slovenian Railways into a single company, the transfer of railway infrastructure management back to a single Slovenian railway and the formation of a Directorate for Investment Management within the Ministry of Transport. With its 44 amendments, the LDS has offered a different concept of organisation, which it is convinced is legally acceptable to fully ensure the implementation of EU directives. This is for the formation of a security, regulatory and investigative body. At the same time, our concept ensures an unaltered regime with regard to the delimitation of powers and powers between the Ministry, the public agency and the holding of Slovenian Railways. In our proposal for amendments, which we are also making today, the public agency retains the role of the public railway infrastructure manager as well as the preparation, organisation and management of investment works on public rail infrastructure. It is clear that, according to our proposal, the agency retains in Maribor, as there are many arguments for this. Maribor, the second Slovenian city, the intersection of the fifth and tenth transport corridor, the city with the second largest Slovenian university, the knowledge created by this university, its professors, students and many experts with interdisciplinary knowledge who are already working on the agency. We remind the government and the coalition that there is still time to change the concept and respect, even though the opposition proposal. Otherwise, you will bear political responsibility for the poor outcome of this organisation and the possible rejection of the concept of law by the European Commission. The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will not support such a proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. And a nice welcome, once again, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Slovenia's entry into the EU is one of the greatest opportunities for the successful development of our country. And if we touch on this infrastructure development, this is certainly the fifth and tenth European corridor, which includes our railways or our railway corridors. Therefore, the successful operation of the Slovenian Railway will be one of the most transparent indicators whether we have taken advantage of this opportunity or not. Therefore, on this occasion in the Group of Social Democrats, we regret the rejection of the proposal for a public presentation of opinions on the further organisation of the Slovenian Railways, because we are changing the system that has proven the best results in railway operations in its history, and this solution has even been supported by the referendum; this is a very serious decision which we cannot possibly overlook in our Group. This law introduces a single undertaking, thus completely nullifying the referendum will regarding the organisation of Slovenian railways. Here it opens, so a whole series of questions are being reopened in a single company. The continuity of the company allows a much more uncontrolled transfer of funds from infrastructure to the carrier. The very inefficiency of running a single company is much more expected than in previous holding organisation, which is not least evidence of the fact that we do not have a candidate or hero today who would be willing to take over the management of Slovenian railways. If the management of the Slovenian Railways is ineffective, the loss will certainly increase. And who will be willing to invest in a company that has a loss? Therefore, the provisions of this law relating to public-private partnership will be virtually impracticable. With regard to the inadequacy of the transposition of directives into the Slovenian acquis, we would like in particular to draw attention to the field of timetable. It is the driving order that will either open the market to foreign and other operators and comply with the provisions of the European Directive, or it will not allow this to happen. This is how we see the most difficulties in implementing the directive in driving order. Here, too, the European Union will certainly be extremely careful about how we will solve this problem. For if we are to open the market and have to open it, it will also be necessary to properly charge the utility for rail infrastructure. The solutions in this law that we will have the utility charged in accordance with depreciation, and also in accordance with our programme for the development of railway infrastructure, are not to be observed. Thus, one of the following issues that arises in this law is the excessive indebtedness or additional indebtedness of the State, since the State has also taken over a long-term loan from the Railway Agency of EUR 55 million to its debt fund. If we include the guarantee that we have passed for investments in railway infrastructure of EUR 440 million, then we can say that Slovenia owes EUR 500 million to this area, but will not have resources in the form of supplies, i.e. out-of-budget resources, which would also reduce this debt. Thus, on these issues, of course, there is also a logical consequence that the country is actually withdrawing from the management of the Slovenian Railways. The Slovenian Railways Authority leaves the whole impact of the union. The security authority shall be transferred to an agency which is a body outside the Ministry. The timetable will also be left to the agency. The regulatory authority to supervise the Agency shall be transferred to the Commission. In short, these are solutions that indicate that this concept needs to be changed. Therefore, we also propose an amendment to which we define [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u141	Comrade Janko Weber, your time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u143	Thank you. We have ended by presenting the views of the groups of Members and moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. You have before you an overview of the amendments tabled today, 31.1. with an addendum under Article 11a on page 52. I am putting to the debate a second article and amendments, two amendments, namely those proposed by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club and the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up. We have four panellists. Member Milan Petek has the first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u144	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. In fact, very early, at the beginning of the bill, so in Article 2, paragraph 17, we run into the essence of what the LDS proposes with its concept to amend the law in force. By extending to the operator the tasks set out in Article 17, paragraph 17, and paragraph 17, of the Law which the Government has drawn up, that is to say, limited to the maintenance, management and management of public rail infrastructure, we extend to public rail infrastructure management, the allocation of train routes, the determination of utility, the management of public rail infrastructure investments and the management of traffic. Therefore, a wide range of tasks falling within the governance framework, which consequently also in the following articles changes other forms or those forms of organisation of certain institutions or companies of the Slovenian Railways, which are, as a result, subtracted from them in other articles. In fact, this article lays the groundwork for you to try to understand that we believe that the solution that we have before us is not a good one. It is not good in this sense because it re-integrates into a single company of the Slovenian Railway, which under this law should therefore have both the function of the operator and of the freight carrier and of the passenger transport operator. So when such a function of the Slovenian Railway would be regained and thus become a single company, this promised separate account would actually become a blurring of the use of funds that would flow from one pocket into another pocket. Let me illustrate this by example, so that the controller can charge himself for his use. So, as an operator, it would charge one other part of this company's utility, and it would be from one account, which will be a single financial account all the time, to the same other single financial account, which means it's an anomaly. Instead of repeating the exercise he repeated as Director of Dars, that Dars had become some kind of manager and builder, that is to say, the development and transport manager of the motorway system, the Minister decided in this case that he would divide these functions by leaving one part in the Slovenian Railway System, and the other part, the investment part, would go to the Investment Management Directorate, which was supposed to remain in the Ministry's system. Those who know this story believe that this directorate will have a formal seat in Maribor, but we do not believe that the number of people and those who are supposed to lead these investments will be employed in this seat. So, we simply don't believe this, but we think that the story in the Dars case will repeat when it's based in Celje and when it's really work, it's real content and real employment in Ljubljana. And this is what we are resisting in this way that the controller, and this operator is the current agency, we are preserving these tasks that he already has. That is why we call on you, therefore, to give you, in fact, the opportunity and time to judge whether the solutions proposed by the Government or the Ministry with the whole law are good. We don't think so. We believe that when this function of the controller is transferred by law to the Slovenian Railways, we make a mistake to treat the patient, this patient, who simply needs to be treated by other means, that is, by good management of this system, by cost management, by organisation of business, by means of clear accounts, by separate operations of individual companies, we treat the patient in such a way that we adapt the law to it, rather than making the law systemic, and that the Slovenian Railways solve otherwise. No one, even in the Liberal Democracy, underestimates this situation in the Slovenian Railways, is aware of the need for Slovenian railways to adapt or change in order to improve their business, but we do not think this can be done. For this reason, once again, the question of whether or not the European Directives allow us to do so is to combine the function of the operator and the integration of the function of the carrier in the freight and passenger transport. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that we do not, therefore, propose this amendment to Article 17, paragraph 2, and we hope that it will be understood positively, but not by impeding the adoption of this law. That's it for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Also on my part to the Minister, to the Secretary of State and, of course, to all other colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. However, we continue with the debate, we are at Article 2 and all the amendments tabled. My colleague Branko Marinič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. A respected minister with a team, coworkers and coworkers, respected colleagues and colleagues! When considering those amendments to Article 2, or if we are looking at all the other amendments to the other articles proposed by the opposition, it is first of all necessary to establish that by taking into account or by means of the contents of the proposed amendments, they constitute a completely different concept of the Proposal for a Law on Rail Traffic, as submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Transport. In short, this means that if we adopt those amendments proposed by the opposition, then this is a completely different concept of law, such as the law, which we are dealing with under urgent procedure. We are all alone, and we are all united: Slovenian railways were placed on wooden thresholds by Mary Teresa, and she is grateful that trains along these thresholds or along these rails are still on the road today. Over 150 years old railway infrastructure is in some parts. In doing so, I would also like to stress all those who have so far had the opportunity to make such or other laws or amendments in order to recall the railways sometimes during the performance of their national functions. However, unfortunately, you did not do this because things were always getting under the carpet and trains were driving faster and faster, slowed down and, of course, the National Assembly and the Government, but the former governments were putting out fires when needed. We are ahead of an important decision that the proposed law and some amendments to the coalition will still be confirmed today, what we have confirmed and discussed on the home labour body, on the Transport Committee, where we have been united, despite the fact that some of the opposition colleagues have left the place of treatment on the home labour body and we have also been united in that the essential things that will lead the Slovenian railways to a different, better future. Of course, the law itself and the amendments that we are considering today will not address all the problems that have accumulated and accumulated on the tracks of the Slovenian Railways for years and years. After all, the employees of the Slovenian Railways are those who also require the Government to change something in order to improve the situation, and if you want us to change something, then it is imperative to adopt this law, which we are considering under urgent procedure. This will allow the management of Slovenian railways and employees on Slovenian railways to organise themselves to start thinking in this direction that the railway is not only state-owned but is placed on the market where the market sets the price of individual services, either in the freight or in passenger transport. However, there are many other possibilities of additional earnings in another area on the railway. However, I would like to point out once again that by taking into account the amendments proposed by the opposition, we are interfering and modifying a completely different, different concept of the proposal for a railway law, as presented by the Government. That is why we have also discussed a lot in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because there was no single opinion among ourselves when we addressed individual articles and individual amendments, but in the end we have also united ourselves in the sense that we will also allow the adoption of this law to help in some way to remedy what has been lost in the past. And I am sure that by adopting this law we will also help to remedy the situation on Slovenian railways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u148	Mr President, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Indeed, our amendment conceptually proposes different organised railways, but such an organisation of railways as was endorsed by citizens and citizens at the previous referendum. Another time. Perhaps so, what Mr President of the Group of Members says is the largest party in the country that this is the best model, perhaps. We'll be on trial in two or more years. I'm sure something's true. This is the most expensive way to solve problems on Slovenian railways. Why do I say that? For the first time, because, of course, this law places a direct burden on the state budget, Slovenian taxpayers for 125 billion tolars, 500 million euros. However, according to the Government's plans led by the President of the largest positioning party, this is only the first sixteen contributions that Slovenian taxpayers will have to put to the rehabilitation of the Slovenian railway cross. And for 8 billion euros, a lot is being built. I am not surprised that it is precisely because people want to have net accounts, at least net accounts between freight and passenger work, at least net accounts between the one who manages and the one who naturally drives the rail tracks in the referendum, even though the referendum issue was complicated, that they supported the fact that we want to have a separate organisation of the rail sector in our country, in a way that is in most European countries. In 22 European countries, there is a different way of organising, as we propose, I apologize, even now in 24, because we have to take Bulgaria and Romania into account, and the EU countries are different than we propose. We propose here, the government, that the same system as Luxembourg and Estonia will be made. Whoever was in Luxembourg knows that Luxembourg's rail system is, in fact, I will simply say that it would not unnecessarily depreciate the state, but simply one ranking station between the German and French, Belgian systems. For the Baltic, and what is crucial, the ownership structure is such that in the case of Estonia it is only part of Scandinavian rail infrastructure, where they also want to do an entire round around the Baltic Sea with connections across Estonia. So the comparisons you're making here as suitable comparisons are very wrong. We therefore propose that you accept the amendment to enforce the referendum will in the National Assembly and ensure that this will not be the most expensive solution to the problems of rail transport. One last thought of why this will be the most expensive solution is that the President of the Government, some say that we will not invest these 8 billion euros from the state budget, will be invested by private partners. You know, when you create a government investment directive that strengthens the power of Slovenian railways when you do not have separate freight and passenger traffic, when the accounts are not clear, you will find it very difficult to get a private investor. Therefore, the first 125 billion that we throw into a hole called the Slovenian Railways will be only the first sixteen if, by chance, the rule of the Prime Minister of the Government lasts until 2023. And in 2008, we will probably meet again in this National Assembly when it is necessary to provide money, money for something that has been ineffectively done and that is why money has been ineffectively used. Support the amendment we have drafted and allow the referendum will to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u149	Thank you very much. And the last in the first round has the word, Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u150	Thank you. The amendments to this Article would touch on the definition of timetable. This was one of the issues that we also raised on the committee. Of course, this timetable now appears in these amendments, namely two concepts: the timetable, which is set out as the 21st item, is the technology plan of the carrier and the network timetable is the agency's act. In view of the fact that, under this new law, the operator of the Slovenian Railway network is also under Article 7 of the amendment to draw up and implement a network timetable for the operator. I don't know if I've counted all the provisions of this law, but I think there are some things that are at odds here, especially between the agency, again, and between the manager as a public service. It follows from these two amendments that the driving order of the network is the act of the Agency and, on the other hand, the production and implementation of the timetable of the network is entrusted to Slovenian railways. So, Slovenian Railways will prepare an act for the agency. And here is the question that I have pointed out that it will be extremely difficult for us to open up the market past our operator, and this is the key issue that we are always discussing in this law and it is crucial whether we will also transpose the directives into our legal order as required. These solutions, which are currently envisaged, do not allow the opening of the market or allow it to be as much as the sole Slovenian Railway Company would like. And these solutions are not those which, in my opinion, would have support in the European Union as well as in all those bodies which, when adopted, will also monitor and give an opinion and also require, if necessary, changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We have concluded the first round, the discussions on Article 2 and the amendments tabled. Since I've already seen a few raised arms, I'm opening a second round. Please sign up. As it is said, representatives of the Government can apply at any time by raising their hands. Thank you very much. The first one has the word, Mr. Horvat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The colleagues and colleagues of the LDS Club duly wrote a footnote in the amendment to Article 2, where they say that the amendments tabled by the LDS Club are linked. In fact, it is an organic link that has a final effect in breaking the proposed organisational scheme of the Slovenian Railways. It is through this bill that we are putting in place a new organisational scheme. The old lady didn't make the right results. Those who have different experiences will then support these amendments. I can say for the New Slovenia Group that we will not support them. Allow me a little imagery. When I read this connection, I actually saw a picture before me that, like these amendments are connected, they are actually connected to some composition, to some train, but unfortunately this train drives very, very slowly, with non-European speeds and too often stops and locomotives sop with the last breaths. Another point was made that we had long coordinated in the coalition on the proposal for a law. I think that facing different views, different opinions, is a healthy matter in deciding on such an important law as the Slovenian Railways. Indeed, I was already a little nervous when we found a common solution, a common solution, because it was hanging over us and still hanging a threat from Europe, but thank God, we found a solution and, as such, transferred it to the National Assembly. We have also given much thought and debate on the burden of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia on the financing of infrastructure reconstruction. Surely every Member is concerned about how it will be with the state budget. But I am sure we also have some groundwork in the Public Private Partnership Act proposed by this coalition and adopted by this National Assembly. And here we see some opportunities where this marriage in the public-private partnership could be well implemented. As the New Slovenia parliamentary group has said, it will not support the proposals of the amendments of colleagues and colleagues of the Liberal Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Dr. Slavinec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I also support the amendment tabled by the LDS. We all have some experience with Slovenian railways, either we were driving or we wanted to bring some cargo by train. And Slovenian railways are now expected to take back some of the tasks that they have already performed, which have been entrusted to them at times, but they have failed. As unsuccessful as we often have experience with the basic activity of the Slovenian Railways, which I initially mentioned, these are transports. Slovenian railways are supposed to take care of the timetable as an operator, for use, and then allow for competition for carriers. And in this latter case, competition for carriers, for others, we can imagine how they will make it possible. Competition is very positive and we urgently need it in Slovenian railways for several reasons. Slovenian railways are in very large losses and this loss is covered by the state, covered by taxpayers from the budget. And of course we will not eliminate this loss by changing the organisational scheme, this loss can only be addressed by different organisation and functioning of Slovenian railways. Let's ask ourselves why so few people ride trains. If I tell you that it takes you four hours from Ljubljana to Murska Sobota to drive a train, then surely everyone can calculate whether it is worth that much time to drive it. The timetable set by the operator can certainly be set differently, but the delays associated with the timetable can be seen as a matter of habit, that no one is too worried if the train is late. It's kind of normal. The trains were always late, from the time of Mary Teresa, and they are also late now. Freight traffic. Freight transport in the European Union, as well as in Switzerland, which is also a good case, can not only cause a lot of freight transport, but in this way it can mainly disrupt road transport. In particular, in Switzerland, in the evening the railways arrive, the cargo is taken, loaded and in the morning is at twelve different points across the country where the users get it. With us, if this is a Saturday, there's no guarantee he'll be anywhere else in two days. And you've got to come and load it yourself. This is what specific cases say. And now this organization, we all see that it's inorganic, let's take care of management. Competitive how other carriers can come. Very simple: the very, very high price of use is set because it doesn't matter how much this price is because it goes from one pocket to another because it goes inside the same company. Of course, others won't be able to come along because they'd be too fond of it. Does this journey really lead to what we all want? In order for Slovenian railways to become not necessarily very profitable, but at least not to make a loss, on the one hand, to take over their function and vehicles of passengers, to transport goods, or we want this to remain a bottomless pit, where funding from year to year is very, very much money. And we need to be aware, and this is an important fact that oil is going to run out sooner or later, and it is one of the key transport systems, one of the key transport routes is a railway where trains will be able to drive on electric power, because in the future we will be able to produce this electricity from nuclear power more easily than oil that will always be more expensive, which will always be less expensive and will therefore be so much more expensive and more limited. As a result, Slovenia's strategic decision on how to organise the transport channel of the future must be so much more responsible and so much more important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u155	Thank you, too. It's my colleague Friday's turn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u156	Thank you, Vice President. A few thoughts, a conclusion, were expressed regarding this amendment, which also requires a comment on our part. Mr Marinič rightly noted that by proposing this amendment and further amendments, the Liberal Democracy offers a completely different concept of organising the rail system or at least the subsystem. That's a fact. We have also said this in our presentation, and we are convinced that this is a better concept, because it is obvious that the Government did not have a very clear concept at the beginning of this procedure when the law came into Parliament. If I had, the Law-Legal Service would not have so many comments and even have found that the law is much in conflict with constitutional provisions and certain other laws. And some of these aspects of the Legislative and Legal Service and Members, of all kinds of Members, are, we must admit, also taken into account, but I doubt if this was at first such a clear concept as the clear concept of Liberal Democracy, which is a fact, and it is true that it does not fundamentally change the current concept, but changes those parts of the law that European directives require implementation. And we said, in some segments, yes, but undisputedly in the organisation of Slovenian railways and in the organisation of much of the present agency. And that's why this amendment is talking about transferring or expanding the task of the controller. Mr Marinič also illustrated this story about the need to adopt a law by how Maria Teresa had already built this line and how the track was 150 years old in some parts. That's a fact. And we are all aware of this and know that there is a need to change the situation, and we know that investment in rail infrastructure needs to be accelerated. But what does this have to do with the law? The law itself will not make any investment. They will provide investment from the resources we will have to provide, a preliminary national programme for the development of the rail system, which we do not yet have. In order for this to happen, we are confident that this will be easier and better done by the current agency with the identification of these already existing personnel, and therefore by joining that part of the Slovenian railways that control these things. This makes our concept different, and therefore we believe that this is a better option because we simply do not believe that such a rigid system such as the Slovenian Railways can be substantially changed, substantially adjusted. This is one of the few business systems, and even though it does, I would say, a significant part of public tasks, which in the 15s, 16 years since independence has completely changed its way of working. If all the other economic operators, the rest of the companies in the Slovenian space, had done so, they would have been picked up long ago, the Slovenian Railways did not pick up clearly because of the state behind them. Unfortunately, some individuals, some influences, some careers and other things, I can say, keep these Slovenian railways in such a state and do not want to change to become a modern business system, and this is what we want with our amendment, in fact, to exclude one part of it from doing this task to the controller. We believe that this would already be a step that would improve the situation on Slovenian railways and some would be aware of the need to change that situation. In his presentation, Mr Horvat noted that, in technical and organisational terms, Slovenian railways are non-Europeanly organised. Slovenian railways are by work, according to the effects of this work really non-Europeanly organised. However, these Slovenian railways have never been definitively organised as the referendum decision or the previous Law on the Rehabilitation of Slovenian Railways demanded. There was only one intermediate phase, and there was never any real reorganisation. However, if real reorganisation were to occur, they would, I am sure, be organised in a European way, so they are not really, because formally this process has been lagging behind, there has never been any transferred assets, people have never been transferred or transferred and independent subsidiaries have never started to function, but they have always been under the umbrella of a central service or central management. That is why this observation is justified, but it is primarily justified to dig up this government, this ministry, this supervisory council, which has never before brought it to the end of this organisation, which we believe to be European. And that's true, you've listened before to Mr. Brickle, everyone else, 24 countries have such an organisation or similar organisation as Slovenian Railways are supposed to have under the law in force or under the law that we are correcting with the amendments. The Minister spoke earlier in his introduction about the fact that we must adopt the law on the basis of the European Commission's request, and we are all aware of it, but we are not all equally guilty. We are not all, and we do not want to be equally responsible for the fact that this has not been done before. We know that for almost a year now we should have a law to enforce these requirements of the European Commission or to assure them, but it took time, as Mr Horvat said, and this coordination may have been more democratically forced. I have talked about the fact that some opposition Members, who have insisted on a different form from the beginning, have given in. That is why I think that this was not a democratic coordination of these comments, but a more undemocratic pressure that everyone thought in the end. Finally, the minister was nodding earlier when I expressed my doubts that the directorate, apart from the formal seat, would have everything else in Ljubljana. As a Member, who in some way guided this procedure of our application set out in the Liberal Democracy and Member of the Maribor or the Styrian end, I would really like to hear one firm assurance from the Minister publicly, here expressed behind this microphone that they will hear alongside the Members, including in the Maribor, Styrian, Slovenian public, that in Maribor there will not only be a formal seat, as in the case of Darsa in Celje, but that the core will be employed in Maribor, that is, the number of employees that will be the core of the future if they persist in the bill, the Directorate. We think it's better at the agency. When the agency is the holder of these functions, there is, in fact, no seat and there is no doubt. But there are doubts about the direction. For this reason, I expect it to be clear and loud to all Slovenian public that in Maribor not only will the formal headquarters in Maribor be employed, in Maribor will be employed not only the Mariborians, not only the Styrians, but those experts from Slovenia who are able to participate in such an important project as managing investments of €8.9 billion by 2013. If the minister ensures that, at least for me, he'll gain credibility, if he doesn't, I'll always doubt that this will happen. One more time to finish. Our aim of this amendment and some that are consequently changing is to ensure or enforce what we believe will be better, more impartially, more properly, more Europeanly, more transparent if this is combined in the current agency, a transformed agency. The Ministry should adapt the rest of the institutions as it sees fit or as it will be possible to implement this amendment if it is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I welcome the Minister with my coworkers! Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear fellow Members and Members! Somehow he won't leave me alone so I won't hear from him in this debate. This is because I am one of those Members who sat in the National Assembly, I think, in 2002, when the referendum question was being drawn up and when the referendum actually came. I was a member of the Transport and Infrastructure Committee or as he had already been called. At that time, by the then government coalition, we listened to something similar, as today, that Slovenian railways within Holding should be divided into three parts: transport, passenger and those carrying out maintenance, investment. At the time we were like New Slovenia, as the opposition party we opposed it and already said, and if you go to see magnetograms that this will not happen, because this Slovenian rail system is so small that it is not meaningful to continue crushing it. We have said that this division of labour is only to be eliminated from this system all that does not tolerate profits, that the transport part will quickly get concessionaires, that it will remain at the burden of the state, etc. With this, we went to a referendum with the then trade unions, which were collecting signatures for the referendum. Indeed, the issue was quite complicated, but at the referendum one tiny thing over 50% of the people decided to divide the Slovenian railways. And I'd say that was the referendum will. With this, we, as New Slovenia, now as a government party, have started in coordination itself, but we have warned that the referendum will must be respected and that then, although nothing has been done at this time, the real referendum has been, also, the law, but the system has remained the way it was. So nothing was shared, but it was working forward, there were big financial problems, losses, and then every so long in this house we passed some kind of guarantee law and gave the Slovenian Railways a financial infusion so that they could work again. And of course, even today with this law does not mean that even in the future it will not be so, because there are obviously so many different interests and so many players pulling each other in their direction that it is difficult to get to the green branch. I hope that the current leadership will also be able to do more by correcting this law. I find it very interesting that, at the moment, we are members of the opposition, especially my colleague, Queikl said, I hope that you will respect the referendum and so on, but when your colleagues from the opposition made a smooth decision at this time regarding the opening of Slovenian trades on Sundays and holidays. You came to the National Assembly, you said, employers and employees agreed, we'll take this into account, and the referendum is no longer relevant. Colleagues, I'd like to hear what these criteria are. I know that there is more or less New Slovenia left alone, in this view, that the referendum will must be respected. But you've all said that they've agreed and that it's not necessary. Now our LDS colleagues warn us that we should respect the referendum on railways, from which four years have passed. However, the marriage commitment is that the law must not change for one year after the referendum. I have to say this here today, already because of hearing the public watching us, because through the media like New Slovenia, we cannot present much of our views. Here's a chance to say this livelyly, these different transgressions and different decisions. My colleagues from LDS, you did not respect the trade referendum, but you did the opposite. Well, when this change took place and adopted this position regarding the referendum, we also concluded in the New Slovenia Group that it does not bind us to what you are inviting us to do today and demand that we respect the referendum will, especially since we had already opposed the division of Slovenian railways into three parts. And without bad conscience, this bill, which we have been coordinating for a very long time, or those who have cooperated with it, of course I am not, nor am I so thoroughly familiar with the content, but I had to take the lead on this issue to warn us, to be honest, to be principled, to respect the referendum will. Very nice, very nice, colleagues. I would expect that from you in a much more crucial matter, once again, like the Sunday work for all those who must be subjected to it. And I'm gonna end it. I expect, however, as a Member of this northeastern part of Slovenia, that what you have agreed will be said to be the Directorate with all its functions, in particular this investment part and the means to regulate the railway infrastructure, including in accordance with this resolution and the development programme, will remain in Maribor until 2023. And if the Minister has promised this, in this way he has spoken here before us, then I also expect him to keep the promise that it will not happen again, let's say what story about the electric holding company where we know how things went, even though then 78 Members gathered signatures and demanded that this remain in Maribor. There's nothing left. I think, Mr Minister, that you will have to fulfill this matter here, as you have promised before the Members, and I believe that you will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mag. Squeakle's got a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u160	I thought I was at a meeting of the ruling coalition because the gentleman who spoke before me was talking about us proposing this law on trade on Sunday. If I'm not mistaken, it was suggested by the ruling coalition. So I don't know who you're reading this to, Members of Parliament and Members of the Liberal Democracy or Members of Parliament and Members of the SDS. What I was quoting myself is why it's the referendum will. The referendum will is important because I itself assess that people in this referendum, especially when they asked whether one or two accounts should be aware that passenger traffic, such as it is, is clearly needed to subsidise, that freight transport is even in Slovenia, which is in the midst of two key European corridors should be financially viable. Therefore, here to apologize that it is appropriate, because more than one year has passed since the referendum, to change the will of the Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens, of course, is wrong. It is necessary to ask whether this solution is the most effective, not only the most expensive, for the country. And, of course, Mr President of the Group of Members of the largest coalition party says it is the best. If she's the dearest, of course, she's hardly the best. It is the best option for someone who will live off this money in one way or another, but it is not best for taxpayers. And here I think it's the core of the problem. The government states in its law that the 2002 solutions, where we separated the manager's function, separated the competence for development and investment from the Slovenian railways and unfortunately failed to fully implement the holding structure, that it was non-European. That is why I think it would be right for us to focus on how you will be able to ensure that in the system, when no one knows who is drinking and who is paying, taxpayers are making a huge contribution to this system of EUR 500 million. That's a big question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors are here! Today, we listen to different theories, and I believe that we all have a good purpose. That's what I believe. But these problems are not a month old, not a year old, but a decade and a half. This system is in fact the most underserved financial and most neglected in technical terms. We do not have technical interoperability ensured, we do not have the safety and regulation of rail transport guaranteed. In short, we do not have the right driving resources and we are not ready for legislation on the European Community, which we are also reminded of. If this law had not been adopted, you are also well aware that, in essence, a criminal procedure would have been initiated under Article 266 of the EC Treaty. And it is questionable if we could get all of these funds that Europe will draw to those 99 billion, of course from different programmes, and if we could even begin to rebuild this demanding system. Time is a non-refundable component, we have lost the battle in time. I myself have worked on the railway and have been responsible for technical driving activities in Primorska for six full years, and I can safely say that in fact many maintenance works are being abandoned today, of course by increasing the technical checks and frequency of these checks, which has an impact in the long term on the safety and management of rail transport. It's not good for us to have one Wildling again, it can be tomorrow. And then we'll all be wondering here and I'd like to see the one who proposed a public debate move this issue further into the future. Do you know what this means to us? And look, you're talking about a referendum decision. The referendum has already expired, the referendum is no longer binding on the government, not anyone, and it was pointless. If we respected and organised those three companies, which were also later established by law, filled them with workers and, of course, with basic funds, we would have had to pay four million euros a year in the Holding of Slovenian Railways system, which amounts to roughly 3 billion and some. And the fact is, there's already something to be done with this money. And you know, I speak to society, passenger, cargo and infrastructure. And those who say that this is bad can certainly say that in this Article 2 we are actually talking about the heading of the timetable. We're a million minutes behind schedule, a million minutes late on freight. Do you know what that means? We are neither credible nor serious partners in the transport of goods. Tomorrow, when the contracts are in force, when foreign operators, when the route within the fifth trans-European corridor will be strictly distributed, when someone purchases this route, every minute will be charged at the late departure of the train. This will have to be paid by the system, this will have to be paid by the state. Thank God we put this thing so far, it's serious, it's responsible, and we found the money to maintain it. We should get started on this right away. There's still some precision on the passenger segment, it's not on the truck. If I don't say what we want to do, we can't do it because we don't have technical conditions. The new locomotives we bought from the Wall Bridge are standing, and they can't go to Styria. We do not even have an electrified area to Hungary, Hodoš-Puconci, and also across the Drava bridge with trains such as commercially justified trains, we cannot. These are the facts that keep us going, railroaders. And you're talking about waiting for this, prudently, and I don't know what to delay in the near future. This law is definitely four years late. And what did you do in the previous government in this area? You've covered up problems and you've been throwing in fact a cross-referenced annual balance sheet under the rug. The largest budget gap was in the railway area. And that's what this government was dealing with. And that's why it's such a time delay. And, gentlemen, get some ashes and tell me that all those quasi-managers of yours in the LDS government, who have crowned themselves all in line for top managers and were the best, one better than the other in running the system, were less than nothing. This is what we see today when a real picture of what these balances were in the past has been shown. And I hope the future will be better. That is why I want this law to enter into force immediately, that the Government assumes responsibility and that it also starts with transparent spending of budgetary resources.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u164	Your Honors are here! I'm one of those people who doesn't know matter well by history or by expertise. Probably because I've never worked on Slovenian railways. On the other hand, it is also likely that I am not a member of the parent’s working body. However, I know some empty government promises or I know some institutions for which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, both in the previous and this mandate, promised a wonderful future, and eventually came from such institutions exclusively one: that is, the office or the jargon "ficus and secretary". From this title, Minister, and given the knowledge of the Rules of Procedure - and the Rules of Procedure give you the opportunity to respond to me - I would like from you as an integral part or a member of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to know, for the first time, the organisation, structure and services of the two institutions, i.e. institutions within the Ministry, if I say so, the directorates and, lastly, the agencies. I'm afraid, especially if I take from history the fact that both services will only be fictitiously present in this area. If you provide me, and I believe from this place as a member of the Government that this will be a full institution, with everything that belongs to them, not least with the possibility of having a cash handler and the choice of a bank where they will keep the money, then there is no obstacle to not supporting the law itself. But on the other hand, as it is said, Mr. Minister, if I do not get assurances from you, through a magnetic record, through your answer that this will be a full institution, based in the Municipality of Maribor, with approximately structure, I believe that you cannot know it today, but with approximately, and I also predict support, but let's say conditionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! We have been working here for quite some time on the fundamental dilemma of what the concept of the development of the railway system is real and appropriate for Slovenia. We are engaged in maintaining the existing system or trying to do something new, which will be compatible with the solutions and which will be compatible with the fact that we can draw on European funds. It was a long time for the old concept to be absorbed by the 2003 referendum and then two years after the referendum until the conclusion of the former Prime Minister's government. During this time, neither the solution nor the referendum nor the one before has been fully implemented and something has always been done only in half. That is why the problems they were facing were also coming. I also understand my colleague Brickle, who is a brilliant financier to be able to rescue railways in the way that they were budgeted for 2005 and 2006 and left 21 billion uncovered for 2005 and almost 39 billion for 2006. It's also a concept of rescue when you don't admit some things, even though it actually creates a desire or a need for funding and you just hide it and then you don't show any public financial indicators or [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] No public financial indicators. [[..]] The fact is that this is a concept that was until 2004. In my own view of the Group of Members, I have said that we want to tackle the problem of railways in a different way, that we want to actually register problems, actually identify them, both professional, both business and financial, and make a mechanism and organisation in such a way that these problems can be solved. Something helps this European directive, and we must do something about it through these changes in the internal system. It's our responsibility, our mission. This coalition is the one who hopes to identify real problems and also set up a model for solving these issues. I am somewhat sorry that they are talking about some future burden on public finances in railways that have failed to finance even their own customers, which is a million times smaller problem, even though they had both the finance ministers and the presidents of the budgetary control commission and so on and have not found out by this year's congress. I'm kind of sorry about that. I am also sorry that the key issue of accepting this novel is, above all, the question of where will be the seat of any institution. For the problem we are solving, this is a marginal or irrelevant issue for the system we are solving. For EUR 9 billion, the difficult project ahead of us is the seat of an institution that will have 50 employees, a marginal problem. Maybe there's a big problem for the environment. This institution, if it were in the Ribnica, would be like the Olympic Games for another city, for a big city, European. But I think, just for the quality of the project, it's a marginal case. However, it solves some other local problems and also gives some weight to some other local representatives who are more local than national representatives. However, I think that no law, no change that we have accepted and will accept, should be taken in such a way as to make this an exclusive problem. The key tasks of this government, these coalitions, this National Assembly and this system, which will deal with the development of the rail system, are, in particular, how to get the appropriate resources to remedy the problem, to solve the problem, to raise speed from 50, 60 kilometers to 160 kilometers, etc., to regulate the level crossings so that we do not have problems with various Depal villages and similar problems. In short, that's the problem. And I think that the Slovenian profession, as well as the Slovenian policy, must put matters in such a way that we will solve this system in the most optimal way. This project, without funds, not its own, not its own, cannot be solved. This Squeak model has no implications for public finances. I do not know such a project, nor do I believe it can be prepared by financiers in any party or by any external experts. Any project that we will undertake that has a national weight obviously also has national implications both for public finances and for economic growth, both for the development of efficiency, jobs, etc. Just having something without investing without costing it, that's not possible. The fact is that this is actually a project that is one and a half times larger at this point than the motorway programme. Once the project is implemented, some relationships may also be different, as things are different from the design of the project to the implementation of the project, but the efficiency of those who will be involved in the acquisition of funds must be relied on here in particular. In fact, all those who are connected in this system, either unions, administrations, ministries, other professions, to simply step together and do something that will be better than what we have now. This system is the same as the private rail network as the Montenegrin ferret for our railways. Something like that. Small speeds, low load capacity, long travel times, delays, etc. And if nothing is done in this area, I doubt that any important competition will come to the Slovenian rail system. I don't think without the restoration, without the development of any significant achievements in this area. It is a fact, and this must also be acknowledged to all those who deal with railways, that in these difficult conditions, when we have a bad system, when we have problems with track crossings, with prisons, with the quality of the network and so on, they actually have tried and achieved better results from year to year. This physical part is extremely good. We can ask ourselves how much more of this would be if the average speed on Slovenian railways was not 60 kilometers, as it is now, but about 160. On this basis, let us calculate potential annual, five-year or other losses. I think this is primarily the starting point for the project. What can we gain from this?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Do you obviously still want to discuss this article Procedurally? [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u168	Procedural proposal, Mr President, for the first time, I think it would be right for you to call or inform Members, as colleagues of Tank, that they are not carriers of the exclusive determination of certain values or objectives. I believe this is happening in a particular group or individually in an individual's head. Allow us, however, Comrade Tanko, to set our own goals. The second thing I would like to point out, Mr President, if I may, is that the Minister has probably forgotten the answer that I have asked him for in this debate. And if you introduce him to this possibility that he might have an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u169	Thank you very much for this reminder. I told the minister that he could speak at any time, and I'm sure the minister himself would decide when to do so. Of course, I can't force him to do that, but you know that, my fellow Vice President. Would you like a word at this point? The Minister proposes that he be in the end, and I can't deny him that wish. Is there still a will to discuss Article 2? It's obvious, so I'm opening a third round of application. Please sign up. It's Mr. Friday's first.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u170	Thank you, Vice President. Apparently, there are a couple of pears and apples in this debate. We are talking about an amendment by which we add to the manager the functions that the current law or proposed law wants to take away from him. When I listen to my colleagues, and I think of Mr Friend here, it seems to me that the railwayman, not the MP, spoke in particular. The messenger must be broader; he must think differently than someone who has worked on railways for some time. I'm afraid this is not his thinking more of the thinking of the one who cares about his future after the elections are back in 2008, and in this way, I think, a little flattery, an institution in which he has been employed for some time. Why am I saying this? What does this law have in it that Mr. Friend think it was impossible to draw on the funds granted by the European Union? What does the law have to do with you thinking you can't start building a second track? What, in this law, is such that by public debate, which would be the most legitimate democratic way of adopting this law, would hold back certain procedures that Mr. Friend thinks are caused by an unadopted law? Nothing, gentlemen. This law is not the basis for all that Mr Friend thinks and claims. He also talked about the need to start investing in infrastructure. There's no doubt about it. We all agree. He also talked about delays arising from this infrastructure. Of course, timetables are adapted to infrastructure, but these timetables have been violated many times. The delays arising are objectively proven by the analytical work done by those who have to do so in the way that 80% of these delays were due to the work of Slovenian railways. This has been shown analytically not to be taken by anyone for these words, 80% of all delays in the year, approximately 1975 to 1980, fluctuate in 2005, 2006, due to those works or those tasks, those performed by Slovenian Railways. About 9% to 10% of these delays are due to other reasons, such as customs reasons, procedures before the authorities and so on, 10% to 12% in these two years is due to the maintenance of the infrastructure system that is taken care of or organised by the public railway agency. Not to talk about delays as a consequence of only the reasons that are outside the system of Slovenian railways, but mainly at the moment delays are the reason for poor organisation, poor exploitation, bad work. And that's what we're talking about, and there's nothing to hide here. Slovenian railways are inadequately organized, too large, mastodon, which you cannot move. Before that, someone said that if, what is needed to change such a small system as the Slovenian Railways, is comparable to the European level. But this small system has almost 10,000 people. And before that, I said that 10,000 people in this system haven't experienced the reorganisation, the changes in the way they run, the organization, the changes in work, the mentality and so on. And that's what we're worried about, and we think we need to say something. It was also said that LDS managers did not perform any rehabilitations, carried out or were unable to change the performance of the Slovenian Railways. Remember only one of these, if we can even assign LDS to him, the manager of Mr Miklavčič, who in this house of Slovenian Railways made order, who became unpopular with this order, reduced the cost of doing business, reduced the loss, but ran into those unions that didn't want to change it, and because of this, some who named him fell down and had to leave. Do you want these railways to continue to be run by such managers, these are your current coalition managers, such as the former or last director of the Slovenian Railways, Mr. Jurgovic, who has apparently been incompetent, but now in a new environment, to change the situation on Slovenian railways? Whether there are reasons only for it, whether there are reasons in the unions, or there are reasons for it in the supervisory council, it is you who have appointed it at the time, and it is you who has given you the responsibility to do so. Mr Tanko, the leader of the largest coalition party, spoke of wanting to save and change the system or save the railways in another way, as the previous sets tried. But in fact, when you're saving, you haven't found a director for four months. In this Slovenia there is no capable person, either by your taste or by political color or by what you are unable to find a director, who should be able to save this system of Slovenian Railways, not the law, the system. And that's why we don't believe that this is serious thinking, but it's more of a blur. And you have talked, Mr Tanko, about how we will speed up the use of European funds through the law. We have every opportunity to draw on European funds now, in this form of organisation. We've told you before what it would be and what it would mean. So the agency, expanded by the role of the manager and the management of investments, in a form like Dars, has every opportunity to draw all these funds and the state is concerned about the guarantees it has to make. You have spoken, Mr Tanko, and it will be necessary to think seriously here; and I myself intend to warn the Mariborians, I myself intend to warn the inhabitants, experts, university, i.e. companies, companies, people from this end, whom you believe to be the seat of this agency or the seat of this company is marginal. In this marginal problem, it is our opinion that a huge number of employees, our judgements, 200 people, will be the highest or highly educated. And if this is a marginal problem in this Slovenian space in which Maribor is a typical representative of a city that has lost its employability in some past period, then it is important to tell Mariborians that SDS thinks that their employment is a marginal problem. Better the problem of who will manage the Slovenian Railways. You have forgotten about this, Mr Tanko, even the coalition commitment to decentralise certain functions, some institutions. In this case, not only will you decentralize if you do not complete the whole process and work at this headquarters of people, but you will not only appoint a seat, in this case you will violate your own coalition contract and you will, instead, maintain what is already decentralised, recentralise. And that is why I would like to remind you of your words and that you are aware of what this means for the Mariborians and the whole neighborhood. So, I'm closing up. In fact, with these explanations, we have already opened up in a direct way or in a direct way some other articles; there will be less publicity. However, I really hope that we have been able to present thoughts that are not thinking about egoism, because some environment is supposed to get something, but these thoughts are comprehensive, systemic, serious and, therefore, we think that we should also give a vote for them to adopt the amendments or the other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I think Mr. Tanko has a replica. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I am kind of grateful that Mr Friday has taken the right to comment on my statements. The fact is that the Slovenian railway system is a key problem; and it is not a key problem where one of the institutions or part of one of the institutions that will carry out part of the activities required for this rail system will be one of the institutions or part of one of the institutions. We simply decided that he would be in Maribor, even for the reasons which the gentleman quoted, even because of this knowledge. However, the essence of this is to identify and make such a model that it can be repaired, that it can be carried out and made competitive with other systems. It is not essential, however, whether the Maribor agency will be solely because of whether the Maribor directorate will be solely for this reason. The point is that we get the money to fix this, but where individual tasks are carried out, is actually a more marginal problem. It seems good to us that this is in Maribor, because obviously different problems in Maribor are difficult to solve than with these intervention matters that we write down in the law. And this may also be one of the problems of Maribor's past, when this management part simply too much of it on some surviving models and did not adapt in time to new things that required other approaches, other solutions. The fact is that setting the concept simply by living on the transfer and rotation of state resources is not the wisest. The system must be built by living from work, not from beating and copying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u173	Thank you very much. And there's Mr. Petan on the list. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! First of all, I'd like to say that I'm not from the train lobby. I've never been there at work. But I don't care what happens to Slovenian railways and what happens to tens of thousands of employees, and what happens to the benefits of Slovenia that it can have according to the position we have. There was much to be said, but there were many times when I felt that we were not yet aware that our country was no longer isolated from the rest of the world, but that we were part of a wider area. I will not just say the European Union, because the railway is also going across the European Union, even more eastward, and these corridors are particularly topical. And this closure, because we are not closed as a country, also applies to economic systems, but it does not matter what kind of public services or other economic systems they are. The fact is that this rail system is also becoming open with the new year, and I will say thank God that the end of certain monopolies is, above all, monopolistic thinking. That means some new overheating. On the other hand, I would like to say that, for example, comparison of Slovenian railways with, say, German railways does not work. The entire system of Slovenian railways is smaller than the Bavarian system. This is said to be why the European Directive does not prescribe that we should have, I don't know, how many independent systems, but requires financial transparency, and this requires and this is good. This means financial autonomy, yes, and otherwise depending on the situation in each country. Based on size and something else. Today we are talking mostly about the form where the function of this rail system should be, nothing or very little about the content of how this system should work, to be successful, I stress, successful, to be competitive in this area in which we are located. This also means that it will be successful to end the search for the first man of this system, because no one wants to run such a fragmented, fragmented system, where each segment will be drawn to its side, with a sea of directors, subdirectors, little directors, where no one answers; and only at the end, when the balance sheet is on, does everyone point to that first man. It's hard for someone to sit on a chair like this. The fact is, Slovenia has an excellent position, a geographical location. Well, the fifth and tenth corridors are almost unnecessary because sparrows are chirping, but we have the advantage of the fifth and tenth corridor only on one condition that this system, which is here competitive, will be successful, will be better or at least equal to those from the north to the south or from the east to the west, that we are at least the same. That is to say, traffic will depend on the quality of this system, not on talking about referendums, if we ask the Minister to make public if there is one system in Slovenia, whether it will be in Prague, or in Zreča, or in Oplotnica. This end of the foreigners who will order will not be of any interest to them. If he drives from Trieste to Budapest along the Pontepic Railway across Beljak, Gradec and beyond, if we are at least as good as him, then he will surely order a service here, with us, and he will not care where the headquarters of the individual institution of this system will be. What I'm saying is that currents can go by despite this advantage we have. Therefore, it is necessary to act professionally, prudently and at least to be as good as others. Clear financial allocations are also necessary. The system, as proposed, and in the referendum has indeed succeeded, I admit, in three companies: freight transport, which was then clearly stated to generate profits, and therefore we will very quickly get the concessionaire or owners who will buy this part of the Slovenian Railways; on the other hand, passenger transport, which will create a 100% loss and no one will want it and will have to stay in the country's possession, and then we will have taxpayers cover this system, and on the other hand, someone will benefit from freight traffic. As for infrastructure as a third company in this area, they will be able to earn as much as they want. Because anyone who wants to put their locomotives and wagons up, will have to pay as much as he wants, of course, on the quick side. I think some countries have done that, and today they have huge problems because their system is falling apart because they've all split their profits. What doesn't make a profit is left to the state. I think there are few countries where they've done it strictly to cover losses there. They said, boys, if you've got that kind of profit, then make something else. And it's the way it is. And now it's changing a lot, at least where they met. I'm going to mention a country that's not comparable, but the system is exactly like that, that's the United States. Their railway system is almost falling apart, but now they are turning back to rail transport following the example of Europe, because Europe has acted differently. Slovenian railways are too small for such divisions, but they are large enough for one company and more separate accounts. Not only three, as it might be, but even more, to see in the subsystems of the individual system what's going on financially there. Because it's all about money. I'm sorry or luckily so. It must also be acknowledged that today, whether this is the first amendment to Article 2 or any article, we are talking about railways for the following, I don't know, 30, 40, 50 years. Railways are a system where nothing can be done quickly, except which director may be replaced, but he can't just change things right away. Maybe it's going faster, but it's going much slower for the better. Our basic point must be how our railways will be competitive so that they can survive. Now the market is open. The hunt is open. Today we really need to talk about how competitive we're going to be. I'd rather talk about something else. Why don't we have a seat, as I mentioned earlier in jest, in Slovenian Horsemen. My colleague says why not go to the Fisherman's. Okay, well, maybe it will, my colleague here, but why don't we have something in Vransk? Yeah, but I don't think that's the way it is, because we're not talking about competitiveness, that we're at least as good as those who are supposed to use our railroad because they can bypass us. They can come after us. Ponteba has three tracks, three tracks. We have to take that into account. That's the facts. On the other hand, I would also like to mention that they are not entirely out of line thinking about the relationship between Kopra and Trieste, and that in Lendava between the Croatian and Hungarian railways. What does that mean? If this happens, there are not even 20 kilometers of both tracks, and Slovenia is like an island. Like an island. That is to say, we must be competitive so that those thoughts are not common or that the meat will not become. And to conclude slowly, I agree if the railways are state property, that the country is the one that answers. We know that executive power, that's the government, then it answers. That's a fact. And today, he's shown a lot of people and he's pointing his finger at the government. Sure, right. That's right. But see if the government is responsible, and what it is, then it probably has some right to create politics, just as it imagines it will be able to respond, and it thinks it will be successful and that is why it will be able to respond. But if I'm going to ask him to be there, in my place, the seat of this, the other thing, if it's not in that concept, then the question is, can I point my finger at the government, and I say, and then you're responsible. This is gonna be a little harder. That's what you say, you have to think a little bit more. And that. We all agree, I don't think there's anyone here who would say that the current situation is good. We all agree that it has to be changed. It doesn't go back to the way it was. Of course, it's a step in detail. And that's what we're discussing today. I've given you only one look, so that's how to get this system to be competitive. And now, if the government has prepared its own view, this program that it stands for, and is willing to answer for that, then I will say that I support such a proposal, because I can always call - we know who I can call to account without saying, wow, but I'm asking for something, and now I don't know if I'm going to get back when I point my finger at the government that it's guilty. Besides, I don't know why I wouldn't trust the government. Last but not least, if we have such high economic growth, 5%, very low inflation, small public debt, we know that this has already happened, that we already have free textbooks for primary schools up to including fourth grade, after new to sixth, and why not trust it in the railway. I don't know why this government could be successful in one area but not in the other, and we wouldn't trust it. Of course, I will support such a proposal as the Government has prepared. I'm aware that I could demand a share of this cake, too, but if I wanted what I was talking about, that this system was successful, and that others would see that it was successful, because they would try the services. And if he succeeds, they'll use him, our railroads will work. Otherwise, it must be said that the matter is such that railways such as these are unlikely to be social institutions, but they are probably the best social ones if ten thousand employees are able to keep them. They will only be able to maintain this if they are successful, if they are competitive and if they do well. In this system, however, they will be able to offer very good social protection, and this will be the best. And in this context, I support this government proposal. If there are any additions, of course I don't mind, but the basic concept that the Government has drawn up, I support. I have said why, because in the other areas, the Government has been very successful. We have recently had as successful an economic situation as we are now. So I don't know why I wouldn't trust her in the railroad field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The debate on Article 2 has become so wide that it can peacefully combine the riddle of Oton Župančič, which goes around: "With the heart of cooking, with the head of the smoke, with the legs of the mill, in Ljubljana takes us, what is it?" Well, you can answer that in the fourth round. But I think we have some replicas. Mr. Pece, please, but you can answer the riddle as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Comrade Petan, allow me, but the government is not a country, we are a country. And people are made up of this our homeland, whose component is a different city, not just Ljubljana. And if you're wondering why you wouldn't allow development, or if you're for that, you're preventing the development of individual places, and I'm gonna count them, the Leprechauns, the Intruders, the Intruders, the Intruders, as you have listed. Then it is probably more meaningful in terms of decentralisation to ask why all vital functions go to Ljubljana. That's the basic problem. No, why don't they go somewhere else, but why do all the vitals go? And I don't know, you may not have noticed, but in fact, the Minister is still avoiding the answer to the vitality of both new institutions under this emerging law. So it is not a basic problem of what colleague Tanko was talking about, in fact, in his opinion, marginalising the employment problem, as well as the synergies and not least his opinion on minimising the role of financial flows. That's not true! This view makes Slovenia and us, Slovenians, small. It is not true that, through the minimization of the financial flows that will accompany these institutions, we can build on the path that you consider to be the only one in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I suggest because the minister wants to answer at least part of the questions to wait with the replicas for the Minister to answer, and then we'll see if there's any more reported replicas. In any case, we are opening the next round of debate. First Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u178	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In the end, I wanted to give a comprehensive answer to the questions raised, and in particular to the substantive comments and views of individual Members. But since this is the second question put here, I would make it very clear that the proposed amendment to the law would result in this body, i.e. the Railways Directorate, in Maribor's location, and this is not an act and that in some way they would try to lead the story into that it would just be a formality. But since we already have a location in Maribor, where the Railway Agency is located, we want to be within this same building, i.e. the same location, also to regulate the direction and provide the appropriate personnel, which will certainly be provided in the first step from the staff, which primarily manages the management of investments and those skills and knowledge required to enable the investment cycle that Slovenia starts, we can even begin. This is a specific complex knowledge, and I can say what a few of the staff are in the Agency, which will be formally transferred to the Directorate and at the same location. It is therefore a matter of creating and providing the material conditions already provided for in order for the Directorate to be able to live as soon as possible; it is also an obligation; it is necessary to establish this situation within 90 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Now the replicas. I will start with the first ones, i.e. the first Mr Friend, then Mr Zagorac and then Mr Peca, who probably has a replica of the Minister. Please, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that. There's very little time. I would only answer Mr. Friday. The system in which almost 9,000 employees are employed can be talked about by those who have ever worked in this system, very vehemently, I believe. Otherwise, all those of us who were employed there, we will, I believe, be able to go back, three of us, we have not taken this marriage away from us. As for your director, Mr. Miklavčič, who was wrongly dismissed because you found out his machinations, I leave that to you. In short, forged diplomas and so on, all that happened during your run on the railways is today this crater that is visible today. Look what you've been doing, and you'll see shit.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I'm afraid he took the other replicas by train, so I'm asking if anyone else would like to discuss Article 2 and the amendments? Mr. Mogue has even signed up, so I'm opening the fourth round. Please log in in in a sophisticated computer mode. Mr. Mogue, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u182	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! If this debate hadn't started getting bigger again, this is a debate on the headquarters of this agency, as it was years ago, I almost wouldn't have answered. What bothers me in particular is that there was an appeal here day so we wouldn't trust the government. The one who drinks the snake is afraid of twisted ropes; and how blindly should we trust the government that promised before it was on the government, the people that the shops would be closed on Sundays. Whether or not, or not, this government has promised all its mouths that the RTV subscription will be cheap, and I could even count such things on you. As an opposition Member, I cannot in any way assert to this that this Government has my advance confidence. I can only say this about experience, but today's minister has sometimes also been directing Darsa, who has a headquarters in Celje, but he has only a ficus there, and he probably didn't show up in Celje at all, even though it was under another government when we were. But these are the experiences that point to these things. Mr. Janez Janša was in Maribor in the casino hall, where he said he was guilty of being so centralized in Slovenia that under his tactics it would not happen that Slovenia would be a doughnut that only has marmalade in the middle, and then everything else would be without marmalade. And he said not only that he would stand up for the institutions that are in a place to stay, but he would also move them further across Slovenia. And I think that he will keep those words that he said there, and that what was there will be enriched yet, but not impoverished, because the battles about where this seat should be, when we adopted this legislation, will be accompanied by a great storm. The seats were from Maribor, Celje, and the Wall Bridge all the way to Sežana. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think the government is working to solve this problem or is placed in a situation like the one where someone tried to shut down five barrels, but only four taps were available. And if he wanted to keep something in each one of them, it all came to an end. I think the government was on the move, and now also the National Assembly, the Gordy knot of the Slovenian Railways. Some in there have been sitting, paddling, working, pushing this policy, and they don't take these things any further. I think that this policy, or the planned projects or railway strategy, has made some Gordian knot or square circle or a square of railways. A respected minister and a team to think about. I don't think the solutions you're offering us are good. God willing to make the mistake of not bringing success, but when you plan these things, it would be good for you to follow that old river. Everyone knew the problem was insurmountable, and then someone who didn't know it came along and solved the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u184	Thank you. I must admit that, as an opposition Member, I am actually pleased to accompany this debate and I would like to see more of the laws that the coalition will declare for us, opposition Members, what Mr Petan has said. It doesn't matter where the head office of an institution is. So, what's important to Mr. Petan if he's not the seat of an institution? What is important to Mr Petan if he does not have such an important institution, which has such influence, employs such science or such a profession, such a number of people who strongly improve employment or actually facilitate the social situation in Maribor. And if this is highlighted by the coalition Member, I must say that as an opposition, I am very pleased. In particular, if it mixes all concepts, economic or any organisational or financial, when it comes to taxpayers, if we do not adopt this law, they will pay for the consequences of non-admission of the law. In any case, taxpayers will pay, always. We are confident that, in our way of organising and proposing organisation, they will pay less because business will be more transparent because the system of Slovenian Railways will be forced to reorganise and not just reorganise, actually reduce costs and adapt to this competitiveness. And if Mr Petan speaks about competitiveness, what is the basis for competitiveness - cost reduction, better performance, faster implementation of this activity. And only in this way will Slovenian railways be able to compete with those carriers who will come to the Slovenian track. For this reason, it is necessary to separate what one or the other law will result in. We have already said that we are convinced that our marriage is better, it saves, it improves business, it reduces costs, it speeds up investment to run smoother. After all, which is very important to me, we are working with our law to establish a body such as the Agency continues to be established in Maribor, even though it does not affect anyone in particular, or thinks that it does not matter. However, I must say that I am finally satisfied myself, at least I hope, in the sincere words of the Minister, that there is no speculation here, so that only a large part of the employees will be sitting in the places where they are sitting now, in the house which has been equipped and restored to sit there much or many experts from this area. And we will hold it to his word if we find that the real realization of this promise is moving away from what has been said here today in public. But I have to say, Vice President, because I'm predicting that I'm not even going to advertise with the other amendments. I think that through this debate we have said the essence of everything that we have also wanted to say with the other amendments. So, I'm informing and informing you that all the other amendments are bound by this amendment. And if this amendment is adopted, in the spirit of this amendment, the remaining changes will also be enforced. I hope this happens and I'm not faking it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u185	Thank you very much. If I had said I was happy about your announcement, of course I would have acted undemocratically, which is why I didn't say it. Mr. Petan, I have a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. So, I'm still staying with what I said, if Slovenian railways succeed the system, they will be able to offer good social protection to all tens of thousands of workers. And that's probably what we all want. It is probably more effective for a system to offer social protection with its work, and then the country will help these people with various social transfers if the system has failed and people are on the road. And look what I was thinking. The fact is, in the old Austria, where these railways were based in Vienna, I think that because the system was successful, Maribor had a lot of this. There were, I think, central workshops for the entire Southern Railway, not in Graz. In Maribor. Because the system was successful. And there all had good social protection, even in this direction it was that those who were employed there lived about in a special settlement had their own houses. Certainly suitable for that time, not the present one, I agree with that. But because the system was successful, the seat was in Vienna. That is to say, if the system had failed, it doesn't matter where the seat of this system would have been. That's the first one. Another time. When you convince us that this proposal of yours is good, that the law will improve and that it will be fine. Ladies and gentlemen! You had a 12-year marriage that was yours. We could've improved that, but somehow it didn't work out because it's not that easy, so don't talk about one or five amendments to solve it, and the system will work. Because in 12 years, you haven't been able to do that with your marriage. It's not that simple. And it is not possible to see with such ease how the whole matter will be resolved with one amendment, and this proposal prepared by this Government will be improved immediately. It doesn't work because it's too complicated a system, and it's also a expensive system. And I think that the basic proposal that the Government has drawn up is a good one, and it doesn't have to be improved by amendments that I don't claim to have a bad intention, no, but I'm not sure that they would do just enough good to fix anything if it wasn't even possible to go the other way. But if the intention of this amendment is to stay the same, then one way or another, we know that everything is wrong, because we've all figured out that it's not the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u187	Thank you very much. I see they're still registered for Article 2 and the amendments tabled, so I'm reopening the fifth round. Please sign up. Thank you very much. The first one has the word "magic." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! Today there are often speeches from Members of Parliament and Members with "I did not mean to call, and I will still be." Well, I want to get back to you because I have discussed Slovenian railways and railways in Parliament in the previous term, and I have also been a user of the services offered by the railway for a long time. I must say, I regret all that seems to me to be happening to us in connection with the railroad. That rail traffic for some, it seems, is of secondary importance, but at the same time, I find that it is in many ways autocratic and too much self-interest; and then the solutions as they are are are are more necessary to solve the internal problem than those that would be directed towards the benefit of rail users. I don't think it's that insignificant where an institution has its seat. However, there is also a need to have little sense of historical truth in justifying and defending a different position and to reflect on the reasons that may have put railway workshops and railway colonies right in Maribor, and then some of the effects of the settlement of this colony for the national composition of the population in Maribor are also known. But sometimes things are used according to opportunity, according to the needs of opportunities, and they are not exactly set up. It seems to me that the attempts to regulate things on the railway were largely unsuccessful or seminal, even because these were the social moments that one of the Members was talking about because it was a group of 10,000 employees, perhaps more at the forefront than some other things. It does not seem to me that this law would predict the bright future of the Slovenian Railways. I'd like that very much. But I hope I'm not naive if I believe in the purposes of this government, because if a politician can't afford anything, he can't afford naivety. Therefore, I find it unacceptable to think that some text is so good that it cannot be improved. And I believe that there is some opposition party, and I mean both the Liberal Democracy and the Social Democrats, with good professional reasons and grounds for taking different paths here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u189	Thank you, too. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u190	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I think that, ladies and gentlemen, today we are doing a correctional exam, both for the Government and for Parliament, on this law. I hope we know more that we will also succeed for the future of Slovenian railways. The other thing that's said about the location of the seat and so on. It is perfectly logical for me, the Agency is already in Maribor and the extension of this direction in this place. Normally, what else would be normal? Every Slovenian municipality, if it were a developmental municipality, simply wants such institutions, if it is a normal mayor and normal development component of the municipality, each such institution is desirable in each municipality. And if this is the second largest Slovenian city, such as Maribor, I absolutely support this. And last but not least, I justify, Maribor-Ljubljana, if you're in a bit of a violation, an hour's drive by car, maybe by train a little more, unfortunately, even because of this story we're talking about today. And yet, whatever else you think about it, I think it's bullshit. As for the management of Slovenian Railways, some of you have repairs such as this and different, and I have some experience too. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Sevnica is heavily intertwined in Slovenian space and not least one more passenger station and so on. [[..]] But, Mr Miklavčič, my experience is positive about him, a good manager was the Slovenian Railways. And last but not least today proves he's a good manager, yet some other interests and lobbies, not to say trade unions, didn't like him. And another story is this, and I hope, Mr. Minister and Government, that you will find the personality, authority that will be able to do this story, this 99 billion, this new law has led to the path you want to go to, the ministers, me MPs, the mayors and so on. However, I know that this seat will be extremely demanding, hot, exhausting and knowledge-intensive, much government support will be needed, perhaps not enough in the past for this Slovenian railway train to lead in the direction that we all want today in this Parliament and in the Government for sure. Two years of hard work is certainly one success, and this is some compromise, some preparation, in conjunction with the directive, that this law, according to my assessment, is good, positive, I have heard this from a number of angles that are significantly more familiar with Slovenian railways than I am, is significantly better, so it is good, it is compromise, it is progress. Unfortunately for everything there will never be, perhaps your colleagues in the opposition do not support it, you have another concept, and it is also, after all, your sovereign right. I personally think and believe that we will adopt this law, that this money will be guaranteed and that the new leadership will depend on this management team and how it will carry this story forward. Then it is the end of the government, and above all the end of Parliament, that anything else will cry, and that is not right and that is not right. In short, we expect them to be reorganised in the first place, and I doubt that 10,000 people, I think, would be more than I need them to be, that's the first. Secondly, greater market performance, the fight against competition, this will be extremely difficult, and reduce costs. This is certainly the work of every manager, every company, every successful company today. One is to raise traffic and the other is to reduce costs. What's easier? Depends, it's probably both if it goes. And this will be the task of the new leadership and the new team, which I hope that these Slovenian Railways will obtain as soon as possible and somehow with successful projects, good projects, both by drawing on European money and for Slovenia, will prepare documentation, this is certainly not possible until now, and that all this story can be translated into what we often call a public-private partnership, even though it may not be the most responsible. I'm afraid there's not going to be such a big rush; but maybe if I'm wrong, it's so much better. In short, I support the law, I support the amendments and I think it is time that we accept this today that things are going this way. That what is then transferred to the second level, that is to say, to the leadership, to the team, on the employees of ten thousand people in the Slovenian Railways to carry this programme forward, with the maximum support of the Government, as well as, hopefully, parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I see that I can conclude the debate on Article 2 and the amendments tabled. We are moving on to the debate on Article 6. I see that there are no interested parties, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 7. There's no sign-in. We are moving on to the debate on Article 8. [[Back-up advertising.]] While Article 7 has been concluded, Mr Weber, this time I will make an exception and open the debate on Article 7. But I'd like to ask you to pay attention next time. Please open the debate on Article 7 and the amendment tabled or two amendments tabled. Check-in is on. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u192	I would like to discuss the amendment to Article 7 tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. It speaks of the operator producing and implementing the network timetable. However, since this law is also an extremely important part of the implementation of the directives of the European Union, the explanation in this Article is somewhat embarrassing, since the explanation is such that the amendment is linked to the amendment to Article 2. The amendment to Article 2 speaks of the timetable of the network, which is the act of the Agency. Therefore, the Agency is a security authority which must be completely separate from the operator, so that this explanation is very inaccurate and also lacking. Therefore, I would also like to explain further what the solution is for the operator to produce and implement a timetable for networks and the agency will adopt an act in which it will actually introduce what they will adopt on Slovenian railways. I also have a question about how the candidates for this amendment - and since the SDS Parliamentary Group is the first to be signed, I also ask the leader of this parliamentary group - how they picture this timetable to be carried out in a single railway company. In fact, this single railway undertaking will provide maintenance and management services with public rail infrastructure, rail traffic management services, passenger transport services and public rail infrastructure goods, train services and technical wagon services. Therefore, this single company will manage everything, timetable and, in fact, all the services provided on the railway network. I have been hearing all the time today about how the market on railways has been open since 1.1 this year and how other operators will be able to use our railways and that our railways will therefore have to become competitive, economical, and will have to maintain 10,000 jobs. Therefore, here I am asked how you can see, because there is no explanation for this, a single company will draw up a timetable on which it will allow for a railway route or set a concrete railway route for another operator to take. What will be the use in this case for a foreign operator and what will be the use for a domestic operator? At this point, the use on the Slovenian railway network is virtually not collected or so minimal that it is not worth mentioning. Will foreign operators then drive after such a low use, or will there be any other use? How do the proposers of this amendment view this particular issue? And because it is a single company, if the use is as it should be on the market, it is interesting or interesting for us, I apologize for the fact that this use is as high as possible, because it can provide a source for the maintenance of railway infrastructure, for the repayment of credits and the like. So if the operator or the Slovenian Railways itself wants to pay for this market use, how will we then provide additional euros, which will be largely for our single railway operator. Where will we find the source, or how will this resource be allocated, to comply with directives where, in fact, you must not finance activities that can be carried out on the market? Therefore, it is not permissible to finance public passenger transport or to finance the maintenance of public rail infrastructure, for example, transport of goods which can and will and must be carried out on the market. These are the key issues which should be presented in the explanatory memorandum to this amendment, but they are not. So I ask the leader of the SDS Group, which is first signed under this amendment, what did they actually imagine when they wrote such a solution in this amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I see that there are no other applicants, so we continue the debate on Article 8 and the amendments tabled. There's no sign-in. Article 9(4) of Regulation (EC) Not at all. Article 11a. By the way, we got another amendment today. I'm sorry for this silence, but I just got another notice, and I'll tell you later what this is about. We continue if anyone is interested in the debate on Article 13 and the amendments. Maybe paragraph 14. In Article 15, however, we have an amendment to the LDS and I have been informed that the coalition is currently making an amendment. You need to get him to the table in a little while. I ask, who wants to explain or discuss Article 15. [[Nobody.]] Of course, we have two options, since formally the 2nd Amendment has not yet been tabled. We can stop the meeting, but we can continue and, if necessary, come back later. The session is chaired by me, Mr Anderlich, and I interpret the Rules of Procedure. If you don't want me to stop this meeting, of course I won't interrupt. You want us to stop this meeting? I'm informed that the amendment is just before you get it on the table, but formally-legally it's not there yet. Okay. I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes. We'll pick it up at 5:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u194	Members present and Members present! Since the amendments are still being tabled, and since they are obviously not going to work, I am adjourning the meeting by 6 p.m. I'm off until 6:00. I'm sorry for the inconvenience. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u195	I think it would be good, however, to have substantive reasons for us to need a law that has been dealt with by an emergency procedure for some time now to suspend the meeting so that, as has been said, several amendments have been tabled. What are the reasons for this? I think that representatives of the ruling coalition should predict these amendments here in the National Assembly, because there is a meeting here and not in the on-call room, and then you, the presidents, should make an appropriate decision on this basis. I understand that, of course, there are reasons for this, but it would be good for those who are interested and, in this case, also entitled to proposers to take note of these reasons. However, I have not heard from any of the eligible applicants that, according to the opinion given by the Legal and Legislative Service, it is necessary to suspend and table the amendments in a simplified manner. This is some weird new procedure that I think is foreign to me. But apparently it can be used for a ruling coalition. I would therefore ask the presidents to clarify, before the interruption, by the applicants concerned, the substantive reasons why we will obviously get some new amendments. We are in Article 15, I suppose we still have a particular problem, of course, formally and legally, whether it is even possible to make an amendment to Article 15, since amendments are being tabled until the beginning of the discussion of an individual article. I understand, however, that you, as Vice-President of the National Assembly, have been informed of something, but the Slovenian public accompanying it should hear this justification from the competent authorities, according to the Rules of Procedure. If, of course, we do not oppose the proposed procedural decision, then the next steps will be taken; otherwise, this National Assembly will become a kind of train on which only representatives of the ruling coalition are seated and we will remain simply its observers. You know, there are amendments now that we can increase or, I don't know, in Article 15, which article to increase, say, commitments to the state budget by another EUR 500 million. Because three months ago we said that we were adopting the Guarantee Act, and today we are adopting a law that would give this obligation directly to the National Assembly. Presidents, I propose that representatives of the ruling coalition, if they are here, explain this and then, of course, carry out procedural activities. As a member of the National Assembly, I have the right to vote accordingly, and no one has informed me why there is such a great need to suspend the meeting for 45 minutes as has just been announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Squeakl, I actually thank you for this procedural intervention, because we have received the amendments tabled at this time. I'm calling off the session until the 18th session and continuing. We're at Article 15. I ask, does anyone want to discuss Article 15 and the amendments tabled? I'm opening the application. I have to say, this time it doesn't all work in the background the way it should. I've just been informed that I'm the only one with an amendment, not you. Therefore, it is possible for me to read the amendments to you by way of article 15 of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS as follows: the text of paragraph 6 of the Article 18c of the amended law is amended by reading: Number 6, on complaints against the decisions of the Agency concerning the granting of a safety certificate and the security authorisation, the Ministry shall decide. Explanation of the amendment: The proposed amendment takes into account the additional opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which readjusts the article. That's all. Now I give the word "magic." Gypsies.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President, for setting up business conditions so that we know what to discuss. In my debate, I would like to ask the proposers where they have been for three months, either government representatives or candidates of the ruling coalition, that there is a need now, so to speak, one minute before the opening of article 15, which is important to amend article. You say that the editorial correction, however, I would like those who have signed this amendment to explain to us the contents of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I don't see any more applicants. Then we go to Article 18. Here too, allow me to open a debate to read an amendment that has just been tabled: In article 18a of the novel, the word "function" is replaced by the word "task" in article 21, paragraph 3. Explanation: The proposed amendment takes into account the additional opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, a editorially corrected article. Of course, the other amendments have already been tabled. I'm opening a debate on all the amendments. Please sign up for those of you who are interested. [[The ad in the hall.]] Please, let's finish the application first. Please, Mr. Skull, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. What we're doing right now is pretty pharsic. It is true that you have assured that you are reading the amendments, we do not even know who signed them, nor do we know if those who signed them are here. We do not even know if those who have signed them understand them because they are not prepared in the process we have to explain the contents of the changes. I believe that if we work in such a way that we do not have the papers to explain the minimum standard, that we can lead the debate at all, or it makes no sense. And I'd like to ask you, just as you're benevolent to interrupt this meeting so that the amendments can be tabled, which I welcome you to invite those who have signed them to explain what the content of the changes is. This is a condition that we who have not participated in the committee may not know all these complications, understand what this is all about.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Školč, of course I appreciate your comments, especially as the comments of the former President of the National Assembly. But the situation is next. From the beginning, I said that all the amendments you are currently receiving on the bench, if I am not mistaken, and I received them maybe five minutes earlier, were submitted by SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. And as I can see for myself from all the amendments, their essence is to take into account the additional opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service. Since you have not yet had the amendments on your hands and in the light of the economic nature of the procedure, if you want, which is one of the principles of all legal procedures, I have decided not to interrupt the meeting, but at this time until you have the amendments on your table to read them while you will get them. As for the second proposal, of course I have no right to invite someone to explain the amendment, I can only invite him. And if you don't have the will, then of course we're going to continue the debate. Can we proceed with the debate? Mag. Squeakle, would you like a procedural one, too? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u201	Mr President, I will speak to the Members of the ruling coalition. We have before us the amendment to Article 18, which is explained in the explanatory memorandum that it is a matter of taking into account the additional opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. I ask the representatives of the coalition, for the first time, whether this is true, but above all I ask the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, if it is true that it is a matter of editorial correction, why in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service there is a comment that the solution that preserves the role of the public railway agency as a security authority is still a non-systemic solution. We have an amendment that converts the word "task" into "functions" or "functions" by the word "tasks". However, in opinions 18.12., 24.1. as well as 31.1., the Legislative and Legal Service stated that it was a non-systemic solution in the fourth paragraph of Article 21 of the Law. You're correcting the editorial matter, and you're missing a non-systemic solution, please, representatives of the government or the ruling coalition. We have a non-systemic solution to the role of the public railway agency. And here, of course, you sell us pumpkins, that all that needs to be fixed in Article 18 is an editorial. Please, if anyone who has been paid for this, at least in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, if not in the National Assembly, can explain to us why it is to maintain a non-systemic solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u202	Thank you very much. We've heard the proposal. Once again, I am not authorized to invite anyone, nor a representative of the Government, nor my colleague or fellow Member. I am still asking the Minister if he would like to. And Mr. Secretary wants to answer. Mr. Minister has the floor, Mr. Skolcz, and you will wait a while.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! We do not agree with this amendment. The proposal for the Ministry of Security to carry out the tasks of the Security Authority is not acceptable, since we believe that the Ministry would then act as several bodies envisaged by EU directives requiring independence between these authorities at the same time. That's the key reason. If this proposal were to be adopted, of course, this requirement of independence would be violated. The Law on State Administration and the Law on Public Agencies allow certain administrative tasks to be delegated by public authority to other persons other than public authorities. However, the Rail Transport Act has already given the Public Railway Agency this power, so in our opinion this is in accordance with the rules in force. As far as the other amendments are concerned, I can comment on the fact that they are editorial in nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Scholch, a procedural proposal? Not a debate, a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u205	Mr Vice-President, please, if you can also invite signatories by vote, whose signatures I cannot understand, to explain what they wanted to achieve with these amendments. I myself am aware that there is a responsibility in your hands to chair the session, and economics is something I can understand. But the key to the credibility of the National Assembly is to know at any moment what we are accepting. And I think this credibility is at risk right now. I myself would like, Mr Vice-President, if you do not call for this, to at least tell us who is signed as the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, who has signed under the NSI, under the SLS and under the DeSUS, because at least the journalists will be able to learn from them what Members cannot know. Here are four unreadable signatures, usually to the typing record to give both the name and the last name and people to sign. I cannot understand these signatures alone, and I would ask you, Mr Vice-President, to state for the credibility of this assembly which four colleagues or colleagues have signed under it so that we can continue to clear this up with them.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u206	Thank you very much. This proposal still seems correct to me. They all have the right to know who signed the amendments, so I'm adjourning until 5:40, which means 9 minutes. At this time, I'm sure we'll get this information, so we'll continue at 5:40.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u207	He explained something. One of them is, of course, who is empowered to sign an individual amendment to the bill or any other act entered into the National Assembly and these data are verifiable elsewhere, not in this Chamber. The other is the individual Member's wish, regardless of the motive behind which person is behind a concrete signature, if the signature is indistinguishable. And that's why I decided to check this data, because I think it's a delay in the procedure, but anyway, the amendments you received on the table, and I repeat, just because the amendments were tabled a few minutes ago, I decided to stop it, otherwise I wouldn't do it, and it won't be a practice in this National Assembly, and I apologize to all those who think I did it wrong. The amendments were signed for SDS Jože Tanko, NSI Jožef Horvat, SLS Jakob Preseknik and DeSUS Villa Rezman. I also conclude with this, but I think Mr Tanko has a procedural one. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I would expect all the Presidents who have taken over this responsible task to chair the meeting of the National Assembly, to follow the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with established practice, as it has been so far and should have been in advance. I do not think that the President or the President who holds the meeting of the National Assembly is an investigative body. If he suspects anything, an investigative commission or inquiry may be established, he will be given a warrant to investigate and any other means you use. They are, in fact, very incorrect and do not fall within the standard of democratic behaviour, the conduct of anyone in this National Assembly. And from all the Presidents who hold the meetings, I expect that the meetings will actually be conducted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that they interpret it as it is written, and that they do only what is written there. Everything else is outside and is outside the Rules of Procedure and simply does not fall under any democratic procedure in the National Assembly. However, if anyone wants to conduct meetings of the National Assembly or the working bodies in any other way, just as these many abuses do, then some rules should be written down differently so that all of us follow the same records. And I suggest that in the future in this National Assembly for all those who sign, you take a fingerprint and a picture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. I have acted entirely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 73, first paragraph, which states that during the meeting I may suspend the work of the National Assembly and determine when it will proceed. Given the urgency of the procedure, given that an amendment or a few amendments had been tabled just before midnight, I decided to follow the procedural proposal. But I now interrupt the procedural proposals and the replicas and the debate and continue the debate on Article 18. Mr Friday has already applied, so I invite Mr Petk to the debate. Then, if necessary, I will open an additional debate. Please, Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u210	Thank you. So, I signed up for the debate before there was any complications. In fact, the debate would be similar to what Mr Squeakl has already mentioned. So, I came from this different opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which pointed out the inconsistencies of this article or this amendment, and it is still drawn as a red thread. But I won't say it again. For me, this debate and all that has happened now under this article, these procedural complications, these obviouss, only because of what we feel in this law all the time - the inability of the government, the inability of the ministry to make a consistent law to make such a law that there would not have been 50 amendments before. With those who have come to the table today, there are 56 if I can count correctly. And that's the point of this procedure, so that's all the stunts that came out of today's meeting. And I believe that there is no one among us who will not say to me that this is the worst-guided or worst-prepared law, which has also had the worst debate, or a debate that does not belong to this place, but to a public debate, a previous professional debate. And that's why I actually took the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u211	Thank you very much. I am opening a reopening round of discussions on the content of the amendments to Article 18. Please. Thank you very much. The first one has the word, Mr Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I will only say very briefly that I support the amendment, and I also support some others. I did not support the amendment to Article 15, when I signed it, and I warned of the flaw. But I signed it so we can discuss it here. If we don't put him on trial, we can't even discuss and correct him. As I have signed myself indelibly under my authority, so I must say that on the same day 16 signed amendments came before us by the LDS Club of Parliament; and we do not know this signature, unless the LDS think that they are so omnipotent that even in their sleep we recognize their parishes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u213	Thank you very much. That was, of course, a little procedural. If you make it clear, we will also make it official how and what; I must also be equal to this proposal if it is formally submitted. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] You can't have a replica if you haven't discussed it. [[...]] Mag. Squeak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u214	First, I'm going to talk about what was a procedural complication.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u215	Mag. Squeakle, the contents of the amendment to Article 18, or I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u216	Yeah. A key issue was who was able to defend the proposed amendment here, and above all to defend that in Article 18 you did not correct non-systemic solutions with the amendment, as found by the Legal and Legislative Service. Therefore, the signatures at the back are as important as the amendments of the parliamentary group. If I am not mistaken, we have explained the amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. But we had almost an hour's break here because no one was able to explain some of the substantive amendments. That's why my question is once again ruling the coalition. If you are already correcting the amendments of the Legislative and Legal Service, why not take note of this when it points to non-systemic solutions?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u217	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Please sign up. We're still at Article 18. Thank you very much. The first is Mr. Mikolitch. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. Well, I'd have told my friend Squeakle when he mentioned we're selling pumpkins, and now he's selling them. Look, don't mix apples and pears, but the non-systemic solutions to editorial errors. If the Legal Service had written that it was an illegal solution, then I would have wondered if it was the right one. You know there's a big difference. Editorial errors, and it's also the right thing to do. As for the non-systemic solution, however, it is linked to what we have discussed with the amendments to Article 2, and I do not know if they are non-systemic solutions. And this debate now takes 2, 3 hours here, in fact, everything is connected to that 2nd article, which we somehow closed, and I didn't come forward to the debate at that time. But given that the law is ready, and I believe that it is a good one, and I am sure that we will support it in the National Assembly, and that we will now discuss non-systemic solutions with all subsequent amendments, then we will probably not be able to conclude this debate today or we will never end it. I will certainly support these amendments, which are editorial in nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u219	Thank you, too. I'll take Mr. Tank's word. I'm sorry. Mag first. Squeak, replica, if you still have time.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u220	Very briefly, Mr. Ambassador. Look, I would assume that the main solution would be those comments that point to non-systematicity.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u221	Thank you. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Well, I think it's usually when we run out of material, when we run out of content, that we start running into things that are usually marginal, small things, speculations and similar stories. The fact is that, at the time of the consideration of this law and also of the amendments tabled, we have found that this law brings important changes that will allow for changes in the rail system, harmonisation with the directives, better absorption of European and also public-private partnership funds or private funds. And I think it's one important change that has not yet been experienced by this system. All the opposition has been able to do with these proposals, including the biggest opposition party with so much intellectual potential within it, is that the solutions that we have proposed with the amendments have been trying to bring to the existing situation. In short, put the system back into some kind of gain, into some anarchy, into some chaos, into some fog, and I don't know what kind of thing. In short, this is the only dimension, and since this proposal has failed, then it is tried with various procedural complications, questions, calls, etc. Every single parliamentary group and each Member shall have the right and the opportunity to apply for a debate until it has decided on its own. Not when he thinks of any of the gentlemen in the opposition, but whether it's "Scholch" or "Squeakl". As regards the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Services. These are opinions. These are not bonds. These are recommendations. The one who adopts the law and who, on the basis of this, submits the amendments or does not, decides whether or not to take this into account. It's up to Members of Parliament to decide. And if the coalition MPs have failed to remedy the legislative and legal opinion in the way you think it would be right, then with the potential you have, you could do so yourself, as you have put the other 50 amendments into place, but you could also make one sentence in your comments to Article 18 of the Legislative and Legal Service if it were as relevant and important to you. But obviously you didn't see it, you ignored it, and now you're reacting in completely different ways. I think there's some other way to communicate in the National Assembly, a model like you went to your house model, didn't work for us, and it won't work for any organized group. In short, to demolish everything that is ready, to degrade everything that anyone proposes, to devalue, etc., that is not a model. If you are able to upgrade things, suggest them if you are able to only undermine them but if this is your concept, your way of working, we will not deal with these matters. I think it's silly to deal with these eternal questions, yours, and with eternal answers to your poses. We're not going to do this, but we're going to do the content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Well, Mr Tanko, as I hope you have tolerated me a possible failure to manage the session, I have now tolerated you a slightly broader debate beyond the scope of this article. Mr. Skolč has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u224	Thank you very much. The debate has come out of the box of what is written, and I am protesting it. It must be said, however, that within each debate, there is only one key requirement that the procedure is the queen of democracy, even if it is still a matter of some kind. And we didn't get along well when we asked who signed it. I only asked that question after there was no one to defend what was signed. If Mr. Tanko took a tenth of the time to tell us what he signed, as he took it to teach us how we must [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Sculpture. I wanted to warn you, but it took time to do it for me. Does anyone else want to discuss this article and the amendments? I'm opening another round about the article and the amendment. I ask that you try to hold at least so long that the applicants will continue to debate, if possible, but we can cancel the meeting again. Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u226	Thank you for your word. I would like to help resolve the issue of the leader of the SDS Group. Indeed, this non-systematicity is already resolved in the LDS proposal. Because the Legal and Legislative Service here has pointed out the non-systematicity in the sense that the Agency is a security authority. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, the security authority should be within the Ministry. In fact, the LDS suggested that the Security Authority is a Directorate, which means an Authority within the Ministry, and this problem is actually solved, this non-systematicity. Of course, it is another, whether the amendment is voted or not, so that we already have solutions in these texts that are submitted for consideration. There is no dilemma regarding the elimination of this non-systematicity or taking into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u227	Thank you very much. And Mr. Rezman. [[He's quitting.]] I can see that there are no more applications for Article 18. We continue the debate on Article 20. I'm closing the debate. Article 22a. There is no debate, and I conclude it. Then we have a new article 23 and an amendment. One of the latest. There's no debate. I'm closing it. Article 26 There are also no applications, I conclude the debate. Article 27c I'm opening a debate. Please sign up. Mr. Weber, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. In Article 27c, we are proposing that railways be organised in the form of a holding company with two subsidiaries: one company to carry out the activities of the public service, the maintenance and management of public rail infrastructure and the management of rail transport. The other company, however, is intended to carry out the activities of the transport of goods and the activities of the economic public service of passenger transport. This is a difference compared to what the applicant has put into the procedure and is also a response to the content of this law relating to the so-called public-private partnership. Already in the opening presentation on behalf of the parliamentary group, we have pointed out that it will be very difficult to enforce these provisions of the law relating to the public-private partnership in a single undertaking, because this single company will definitely operate with a loss. If we open up the market, it will be necessary to charge the use. This unique company is unable to pay for this utility. And if it pays, of course, it will come into extremely high red numbers. Which private investor would want to invest in such a company? He's not here. It is not in Slovenia, I say, nor in the world. That is why, of course, this solution, which we propose, is to organise services carried out in the form of the maintenance and management of public rail infrastructure and the management of transport in one company. By doing so, you can attract the participation of that public-private partner who is willing to invest in infrastructure. Given that we have this instant of resources to build the infrastructure just and only in debt, of course this is extremely desirable. Otherwise, of course, we will owe the Republic of Slovenia too much in my opinion, and in particular we will not have the resources to settle this obligation. And if we have a separate company, this company will be very interested in charging the appropriate usage of the rail network and in fact what happened with 1.1.2007 will also apply in practice, so that the market for the use of the Slovenian rail network will also be opened. And the more carriers there will be, the better it will be for this company, the easier it will be to repay credit commitments, the easier it will be to get a private sector investor. We do see a concrete solution for Slovenian railways in the field of infrastructure in this separate operation. This separate operation also, of course, prevents the non-transparent spillover of funds, i.e. public funds from maintaining infrastructure to carriers that must also be marketed. This transparency is interesting and crucial also for that operator who will also wish to recapitalise our public carrier. If these figures are clear on the conditions under which public rail or passenger rail transport will be organised, and if it is clear how much it will also contribute to the operation of the freight, it will be much easier to obtain an interlocutor who will be willing to invest in the operator. However, if this is a single undertaking, it is, of course, virtually impossible to achieve that someone will be willing to invest in public passenger transport and freight transport if this operation is not sufficiently transparent. This system, which we are proposing, is also, I can say, a system of those countries which are somehow carriers of the development of the European Union. If we just see that a single rail operating system is present in Luxembourg and Estonia alone, then we must not follow these two countries. In Luxembourg, however, it can be because it is an extremely small and successful country, but unfortunately it has an extremely small rail network, very few. Estonia has it, say 300 kilometers, Luxembourg is even less. We have it, I think, about 1,000 miles. So we cannot compare ourselves with those countries that have uniquely organised railways, because they are not comparable to our needs, they are not at the crossroads of the fifth and tenth European corridor, which is an extremely important and extremely important opportunity for us to organise ourselves as one of the most modern countries in Europe. Although Switzerland is not a member of the European Union, it also has organised railways as a single system, but is planning to change in the form of two separate companies. And why not follow Switzerland, which is not a member of the European Union, or why we should not follow Germany, which has the same system as we suggest, why we should not follow Belgium, which has the same system, why we should not follow Austria, which also has such a system, Poland and, ultimately, Italy. However, I believe that, despite all that, we are also from the history of the development of the railway network, including the railways in this area, the nearest German system. However, not only because of history, but also because of the interest in business cooperation and the management of this part of Europe, which is certainly extremely important right in the territory of Slovenia, both because of Luke Koper and, as I have already said, the very intersection of the fifth and tenth European corridor. These are the opportunities that we can take advantage of because Slovenia has become a full member of the European Union. If we do not take advantage of this opportunity, the carriers will start to use the tracks that pass through Slovenia. And this is the key question of what system in Slovenia we decide to organise Slovenian railways in the future. The new system is one that will allow the closure of the Slovenian market, not the opening. And this is the key flaw in this text of the law and this solution, which is just trying to show that it is now a solution that is really long-term, that opens up the market and so on. I have already tried to point out the driving order itself and the importance of where this timetable is coming from and how this timetable will also be forwarded to the Railway Agency, so that our single company can only be driven along our railway tracks. And these are the key questions, which then do not give an answer to the introduction of the utility system as required by the market. Unfortunately, this cannot be written in this text of the law, because then this amendment would become practically non-systematic, because it would become even more out of the concept itself, which is enshrined in this law, but I believe that we should really aim this, for the first time, to burden public finances, to reduce public debt, to become competitive in railways, both with carriers, and that we also, of course, have a modern rail network that will be attractive to many operators. And so, of course, for many investors. In what way could we really achieve this in Slovenia? Only in order to take a step further from what we propose in these two amendments. In order to manage the railway infrastructure, it is necessary to organise a company similar to the Company for the Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia. In this case, it would probably be the Railway Company of the Republic of Slovenia. The resources available to this company are certainly useful. Once again, the utility can only be used at a time when it is economically high enough for this company to pay for investments in infrastructure and maintenance. I also have in mind another source, which we called the so-called gas tolar when we built the highway system. Today, this gas toll is no longer invested in the motorway, which is also a lack of the current funding system. But it shows that this resource can obviously be renamed, redesigned and allocated as a dedicated, most quality source for the construction of Slovenian railways. For example, it could be called an ecological tolar, a gas ecological tolar. Ecologically, if we train railways, if we have a quality operator, both domestic and foreign, we will significantly less pollute the environment than if we drive on roads, local, state, motorways and so on. I hope that even if part of freight transport could certainly be diverted to rail transport, the costs of future maintenance of motorways would also be reduced. These are overloaded, not only by private transport but also by freight, because they are extremely important European corridors that they want to use in Europe for these important routes. So we can create two extremely high-quality sources that could justify and justify the establishment of the Railway Company of the Republic of Slovenia. Indeed, the carrier should then face the market both for public passenger transport and for the transport of goods. Here is the opportunity and interest that our carrier will even begin to talk to operators who are just as interested in driving cargo either from our port or to our port, or in any way and of course also in all these directions where these corridors are taking them. Of course, by this law, we will certainly not take advantage of these opportunities by means of this way of designing Slovenian railways. It seems to me that this issue, which has not yet been resolved in the Slovenian Railways, when we talk about the director of the Slovenian Railways, will not be problematic in this single enterprise system at all. This will be a kind of amateur activity of managing the directorial function, where everything will take place on the Slovenian market, no competitiveness, no responsibility, and will certainly, once this unity is established, be reported by someone who will want to be a lover and director of the Slovenian Railways. However, if we go to the minimum of these societies that we propose in this amendment, this story is much more difficult. This depends, however, on the expert and acquaintance of the railway system, not only at home, but also in Europe in particular. This is, of course, a real opportunity for experts and train users. This is what we have in Slovenia for sure and can offer, not least as a solution in Europe. If I return for a moment to this organization that changes with this law. The concept of organisation, which is still in force until this law is passed, has also been one of the more advanced in Europe, including the so-called train block system. Therefore, the transport of goods from one point to another without intermediate switching, dressings and the like, because otherwise everything is going on if an operator can only move in one country when it comes to another, must be taken over by another operator. In this case, our carrier, i.e. Slovenian Railways, can take the goods to Germany, attach the wagons and take them not least to Istanbul or anywhere. This was a model that began to function in this system that is now in force. There is no feeling, no hearing solution, that single railways will be able to negotiate such solutions with other operators. Also, all the criticisms that fly to the fact that what we have today is extremely inconvenient, incomprehensible, of course, unjustifiable. It is fair to say that there was no interest within the system of Slovenian Railways in order to complete this organisation. It was stuck at a time when it was necessary to say: a certain number of people will go on public passenger transport, designated for freight and designated for infrastructure. This could not be agreed within Slovenian railways. And that is the key reason why we are talking today about the fact that this system has not come to life. What we can also understand in these solutions, and today we can even talk about the fact that the Government, I reiterate, is actually withdrawing from this system. The Slovenian Railways Authority will actually lead the union. The government also withdraws from the so-called Security Authority, which will be at the Agency and withdraws from jurisdiction, or else it may not even be so much the power of the Government, but, above all, the Security Authority leaves it to the Agency. The regulatory authority, which will be a kind of commission to oversee the Agency, is the one with which, as a commission, it will try to influence the Agency. Of course, it will be an extremely loose influence, a mild impact on what is happening in the system, and above all there will be no responsibility now on the government, because it will happen that this market will not work, which is 99%, not even 100%. Thinking about this amendment, I think it is really necessary at this stage of the consideration of the law, but I think it is really necessary to pour clean wine as soon as possible also for a definitive solution, how to relieve our public finances, how to reduce indebtedness and how to come up with effective solutions to modernise the rail network and to modernise our carrier or operator. On the basis of these facts, which I have cited, I think there are sufficient reasons to open a debate on this. Unfortunately, there was no opportunity to organise a public presentation of opinions, where these arguments could also be addressed at a higher level of expertise than I can present here today and as others can be involved in the debate. But unfortunately, our proposal on the committee was rejected. And this has really left out an important opportunity for these professional arguments for the future organisation of Slovenian railways to be exchanged in an open space and then to really agree on who will be the team of experts that will prepare the most effective solution, as I said, to relieve public finances while at the same time providing a modern rail network and also a modern operator. There will be another problem for a single company. More or less, due to the commitment and interest of drawing on European funds, we will have to regulate the fifth and tenth corridors. What will happen to those railway tracks that are not within the fifth and tenth European corridor? These will remain a tenth of the concern, a tenth of the concern in this country. The rest of the network will go back. Why? As this unique company will need to cover up losses and poor business, so will the means to maintain the railway infrastructure, and the easiest way to do so will be on those routes that are not in the fifth and tenth corridors. This means that single railways will also contribute to uneven regional development or will be left out of regions beyond the fifth and tenth corridors. And if we add that these regions are already affected by this because the motorway network is also passing through these regions, then this imbalance in development will be extremely large. I don't think we can set ourselves a goal in Slovenia, however, it can't be our perspective, it can't be our long-term view of rural conservation, it can't be our long-term view of equitable regional development. Unfortunately, these solutions of a single company will result in this. The main ones will be those lines that will not be in the fifth and tenth European corridors. How many companies are on these routes can be found. What will be the economic damage if these lines are cut off in these areas? This can also be seen very quickly. The economic effects of the truly serious reorganization of the Slovenian Railways are, as I have presented them, significantly greater or huge, because they will, in fact, be accepted by the ruling coalition today, even if they are to cause a minus, not a plus, and of course this gap between these solutions is extremely large and huge. Therefore, I suggest that you seriously try to reconsider the content of this amendment, and also the content of the organisation of Slovenian railways at all, as well as proof of the success of the development of the Slovenian country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Would you like to discuss it? The application for discussion shall be open. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u230	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I would say that this amendment, which is one of the possible variations to the current arrangement. Instead of three, just two. Of course, it's not the one the government suggested. Some argue that these amendments would get rid of Slovenian railways, with two amendments they would get rid of. I think I could have read my debate from before, but it would have been the same, but I've been writing a little bit now, so I'm going to explain it a little differently. I think that with no such amendment, and with two amendments, there is no way to resolve it. Therefore, it is also irresponsible not to say well, irresponsibly, to argue that this would then be a matter of resolution. The railways would have been resolved, everything would have worked out fine, they would have profit, even those routes where there is no traffic, they would have all been occupied, everyone would have been satisfied. But obviously it doesn't work that way, because if it were, then I'm sure that in the past five, six, ten years, someone's been "granting" this content, and I'm sure at one amendment, the thing would be different, we wouldn't have had trouble on the railway, we wouldn't have had trouble with the first person, we wouldn't have had problems with the losses, we wouldn't have had trouble with the tracks themselves, so we could also have these new locomotives over the Drava Bridge, and on some other routes, all of this would have been solved. But obviously that's not how it works because you can't save yourself with two amendments. That's the first one. The fact is that I personally do not see any bright perspective in that some system in a country such as Slovenia would be pitched. Okay, we can call it holding, sometimes we call it the SOZD, and in a positive sense, I'm saying, these SOZDs never did, because then the SOZD bureaucracy was built up. These are facts, and I think that this effect is also reflected on Slovenian railways today. I said before, little for a joke, little for a fact, that we have a bunch of directors, subdirectors, small directors, assistant directors who, of course, work as they do as the system allows; and where there are multiple subsystems, there is cooperation between these subsystems as it is. Everyone has their functions, instead of having one common function, what it is. And I think that can be arranged. Where there is a possibility that we will have our own function, we will certainly have one, perhaps another, so that the three will go to the same supplier for the same matter. That's the way it is. If the company is homogeneous, of course, this is different. However, I think there are two things consciously mixed today: a single enterprise in terms of governance, not in terms of financial balances. That's something else. We used to call it support, financial support. A lady who has been in the congregation for some time now knows that. That was very up-to-date. We had support that we had a checkup. It wasn't bad. We had a review, and we knew exactly what was going on in that area. And the same can be done in the company. Today they call it, I don't know, division or something. Although the company is single, it can also have a separate financial picture because it has a separate financial picture, we can analyse it. And the second is, and you're saying that then the financial picture would be single. No, that's not what we're saying. And the European Union does not allow that either. It allows a single company as an organisational unit, and financially speaking, it is said that it has its finances, whatever we say, its giro account or whatever you call it. It is financially visible whether it is successful or not at any time. And that's what's blurry today. With regard to the government's debt, what will the government have to do in the future if it is to be a single company? I would say that until now, when there was no single company, the government had to continue to intervene. At the beginning, when this government came along, as far as I can remember, it was one of the first tasks to have a huge amount of funding allocated to the railways. I think we've also been criticized by our respected colleague in the first place for this, but that's just the way it was. The fact is, this is to be covered. And if this system were to continue, we should, I don't know, do the same thing again in one year or two years from now, we wouldn't have any use. That's why we're all united in needing some kind of intervention. We're all united here. And I don't know why, if the government is proposing a solution, which it also stands for, which it will be responsible for, but now I doubt that, I don't know, the government won't do it in advance, but priori, if the current system doesn't sleep, then it's something else. As to which lines will be primary, which will be secondary, which will be left over, of course, is a matter of the market. Where there are no passengers - today we have railway lines and people do not benefit from rail transport. Now, why; we can't force people to get on the train even if the train drives, but if it suits them better to use other means. We live in 2007, people's demands, citizens' demands are different, needs are different. Also, because people can choose and cannot be forced to have a route, the same is true of bus routes. The same applies to freight transport. When some economic routes broke out because of the war in the Balkans, we could not expect the route from the north to the south to be as burdened as it used to be and as it will be again when all things are even more settled as they are. At this point, it's the east-west corridor that's the most up-to-date. That's the way it is. That's what the market wants. On the other hand, look, in the 1960s, we cut off a bunch of tracks. Koroška also lost the railway line because, when it was being built, 120 years ago, the needs were such. In 1960, however, the needs of another were needed. I'm not saying it was good that we stopped so quickly, but it was because there were different needs. Time requires something else. And so it will be with the routes that will be outside the fifth and tenth corridor, if the passengers are, if there's any interest, then they will remain. To develop these places you need to find other ways. We can't keep insisting on the old ones. When coal had spent its time, coal mines had been shut down, all of Europe had encountered it, were traumas, but something else had to be found. It doesn't go through the night. Solutions have been found, but we cannot insist on what has been so long that it must remain forever. There's something else that needs to be found. It is necessary to look for solutions, to talk about the fact that a single system will be impossible, that I could not claim to accept, because I see no argument whatsoever, why this should be, but if we were to split into more companies, the matter would be more successful. I told you before, two is a variation of three, and I agree with that. Surely, in the division of three, two would be successful, with immediate ownership and a third would be at the back of the country. Today, however, I would probably be very successful with two of them, because those who had the infrastructure, despite the fact that they should invest, could charge prices as such, would have profit and others might have strangled one another just enough to keep it on the back of the country and should always intervene. This solution is just a variation to the current state, which is not good. I used to say half for a joke, half for a real mention of the division within the SOZDs, which we know well, and it didn't even happen by accident. I've mentioned this before, and once again, I'm going to list the big countries, how they're arranged there, that they have, I don't know, two companies, three companies, and it's not appropriate. German railways can probably have a different system than Slovenia, where the legalitys are different, because our entire Slovenian railways are not even half Bavarian. That's right. I'm sorry, I'd rather see our railways be bigger than the whole of Germany together, but that's right, those are the facts. This does not mean that the small ones must always take over, and also the European Union, the directive does not require this, because it is perfectly clear to them because they have, from Luxembourg, which is even smaller than Slovenia, to Germany, which is probably the largest and French, which is the largest area, and now Poland is probably the same. And the solution or option proposed by the European Union in the directive is flexible enough for us to collect exactly the solution proposed by the Government. What Switzerland will do, well, it can do tomorrow, but it can only be 20 years from now. In addition, Switzerland is much larger than us and has significantly different conditions. In addition, as I know, the longest tunnel is being built in Switzerland right now, a 60km tunnel with a different organisation than you suggest, and they have also been able to do so in that solution in order to compete because they will link northern Europe to the south through this largest tunnel that they are building and will probably be expected in a few years' time because the bite is huge. With such a solution you have not convinced me, and I will not support such an amendment, either, because it very much reminds me of the current solution that we have a huge and too many problems with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u231	Thank you very much. I'm opening another round of debate. Check-in is on. Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u232	Thank you for your word. I've been in the National Assembly for six years. And I must say that such thorough debates on the subject of transport, rail or road as I have experienced in this mandate have not yet been experienced by some. At the time we also adopted important documents in the previous mandate, including national programmes, but everything was somehow quiet, there was no important debate on fundamental solutions, and unfortunately there were then some opposition Members in this area that we had a slightly different idea and we also proposed some things. The fact is that they are actually shaping the fate of Slovenia 5th and 10th corridors, rail and road, and the fact is that all the other parts outside this corridor have been completely forgotten up to two years ago, whether it is state roads or those less important railway sections that are outside this corridor and for which there is now such a great fear that they will further contribute to the demographic divide. The fact is that it is only in the last two years that important funds have been allocated to both road and rail sections. Investment in state road infrastructure has increased by about twice, i.e. in fact in state roads, i.e. actually in road renewal, opening up areas, so far there has been no investment. In addition to the guarantee law, some other railway sections that were not otherwise – and if the fifth corridor was forgotten the second track – were even more so. That's a fact. This is verifiable, and it's also written down. The questions about these fundamental solutions that are now emerging and trying to change them, I think they are a little late, after all. In the previous term, there were many opportunities, even at the time of the referendum, to make things better. But if they had already entered into the law, they did. Over the course of two years, with some serious approach, serious work, if it is the will to do much to reorganise the rail system, I am sure of that. All those who take seriously the work that takes time and will to do so succeed. None of this has happened. There were some half-solutions, many things were then covered by the guarantee law, both for restructuring, re-employment and so on, and this was simply then the story of successful management. It's history. I think it is time for us to do something to make a substantial difference in this area. If we do not actually establish a concept that has some serious political support, and if this concept does not call a capable management team, then I believe that this solution will stay halfway as it has been. I hope that with this reorganisation, which is envisaged, which is also in line with the European acquis, the ministry will be able to create and design and team up the management work as well. It depends more on it than on the law itself. I think it's the right solution to keep the system together. One way or another, with the possibility of introducing private co-sponsors, the law we have before us introduces and imposes extremely difficult conditions on railways. In a relatively short period of time, either because of private partnership or because of foreign operators gaining access to the railway network, the Slovenian Railway system will have to be restructured relatively quickly and adapted to new conditions. Otherwise, we will experience fate, just as it was intended for them, if we maintain the concept and approach of the previous government to leave these holes, not book them, put them somewhere, and let the system spread slowly. Personally, I find it difficult to put a very high price or commercial price on this system that we have. The fact is that for such a poorly placed system, for such a poorly worn system that does not allow great flexibility, which is in fact in this area of corridors that go around Slovenia, is practically one, if not even the worst, least pulsating system. And it does not allow any suitable capacity. The key condition that the matter begins to take place commercially, under all these criteria and that it will also be interesting is the modernisation of the network. When the speeds are high enough, when the crossings are secure, when the carriers are large enough, then the fifth and tenth corridors will be interesting, they will be frequent, there will be line operators fighting, there will be transportation, and there will be some concrete charges. However, I think that despite all of this, the use will be too little or too little for this system. If, in a relatively short period of time, something important on the railway system will not change, then we can peacefully call the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage and declare this system a cultural heritage. In view of the situation in which it is located, according to the facilities it has at its disposal, it is not really far from being a cultural heritage. We've heard that a lot of things are 50, 60 years old. This is said to be our railways, not because of this government, but because of heritage, because of history, they function as oldtimers normally do. Here we could make some tourist rally rides on Slovenian railways, with the equipment they have, invite all this European cream to enjoy and take a slow look at all our beauty on the fifth, tenth corridor and also on all other segments of the railway network. However, it is a fact that only membership in the European Union, in fact, does not help much, simplifies a lot of things. But it doesn't help much. The biggest part of the deal will be those who will take over the management of the rail system and those who will fight in the framework of the Directorate for Budget Partnerships, Europeans or other funds. Here I think that all Slovenian politics, professions, unions and anyone else should be united if they want to do anything productive and good from this system. In any other case, there will be only a great deal of dust, a lot of partial interests, such left, right, city, and I don't know any unions, administrations, lobbying, and there will be nothing. If we set up a system like this, then it's better that we don't do this at all, because 9 billion euros is a lot of money. It is better not to go there, and we will spend this 9 billion euros on some other projects that will regulate other things, education, culture, we also have large consumers in this area and more. But the environmental aspect will suffer a little. Actually, I'm concerned about these demographic areas and these other things, but there's only one thing that bothers me. All that we have failed to get into some developmental acts, into some development projects, into networks, and I still don't know where, we have managed to effectively hide with Nature 2000. And the key problem with the big problems, the areas from which some come from, is Natura 2000. This is either a huge missed opportunity or a slumber of the previous government coalition, no matter how someone talks about it now. This went through the government procedure, the coalition process went through, and those of you who had this option at the time, you loaded some areas, especially demographic areas, a great burden and a great deal of chocolate for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u234	Thank you very much. I won't be so exhausted. I would only like to draw attention to some of the interesting aspects of the debate itself, as well as to what, after all, all of us who are as pregnant citizens of this country have been able to see in the past few years what is actually happening to all the combined infrastructure systems in Slovenia. I'd like to compare the Eles system, the Telekom system and the rail system. We need to know that Telekom is now being attacked by several operators. The most powerful, with the most powerful action, is this T2 moment, which I think is justifiably suing Telekom for the difficulties he had as an operator in taking over the use of Telekom's infrastructure network, because Telekom is easy [[...]] [[Telephone disturbances]] Because of the fact that the single system has simply prevented any other operator from using the telephone infrastructure in a promotional and efficient manner. [[...]] The second example is Eles, which still does not allow other operators to transport electricity through the public infrastructure network. The third system is a railway which has had extensions such that all operators appearing on the market can start using or transporting their cargo on the public infrastructure network, but due to internal tensions, we know exactly what we have heard before, quite toxicly, about how we are doing a family about a successful director. It is necessary to know that this director has just begun with, I will say, the operationalization of the separation of these three systems, passenger, freight and infrastructure, but that the internal relationship that this coalition, which is responsible for today, has simply been carried away, I hope to say to a very successful director because in the next directorship he has proved to be one of the most capable managers, and I do not know him personally, I do not know what he looks like, but after reading about his ability to manage companies, it is clear that replacing this gentleman with the successor was a complete fiasco. This is because the simple power in the rail system has taken over the union, which for a decade has easily prevented any development in this area. I would just like to say that in a single company, in a single system, it will not be possible to prevent [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] unfair competition of the operator, because within the operator system, all other operators wishing to use railway infrastructure in Slovenia will be foreign operators. [[...]] Even this system will prepare timetables. What will these timetables be if they are prepared by a de facto operator who will actually use these timetables? There'll be no room for anyone else. And that's why I think that a single system is because of our mentality, because of our way of thinking about how the system should work. So, as an example, I mentioned Telekom and Eels, which is why this problem is here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u236	Thank you very much. I think my colleague Weber, with this amendment of the SD, has brought us back to the debate at the very beginning. So instead of getting a single company, what the Government has proposed with this amendment to the law, now this amendment proposes once again that if it is not what 3 is now, we should get 2 companies. One that will work the business that will deal with transport and the other that will record the losses. I don't know, we've been listening to this all day, and now, with some amendment, the opposition is somehow convincing us that this solution, which is currently on paper, is the best. But we all find that this solution is not good, because from year to year the losses in Slovenian railways accumulate. My predecessor was talking about successful directors on this system. I see that I have also been a member of the National Assembly for six years now, that most of the directors of the Slovenian Railways went to the National Assembly or to the state budget for money. Every time it ran out, the state made a guarantee. And that's how it works, and that's how this thing works. And you are now proposing with this amendment, the same thing the LDS proposed by deleting the articles, but the previous articles, to keep everything the way it was. But today we have decided with this change of law that something will change at this level. To get a single company that will have to draw up a clear plan, a clear programme to set this company up with some strong leadership and that this hypertrophy of self-government in Slovenian railways ends in some way. And that someone will start to be responsible for the operation of Slovenian railways. That's what we'd like to do with this law. And in Novi Slovenija, we do not think that such an amendment, which brings us back to the starting point of four years ago, would be supported and continued. Of course, colleague Weber, you haven't convinced me with a single sentence, even though you've been very broad and long-arranged about what needs to be done. What needs to be done is what we have to do right now. From this point on, it is necessary to go in a different direction, not so far as we do not read as today, "railways with millions of euros of unpaid taxes" and so on. And that just builds up. And you're still hoping to suggest that everything stays the way it is. He can't stay like that. In fact, he can't stay like this anymore. The minister and his team must be given the opportunity to make a difference on these railways. But if he can't change it, then he'll have to leave. That's a fact. For we are not here to impose new and new taxes on Slovenian taxpayers and to pay them over and over and over again for losses. Mrs. Pecanova, you laugh so pleasantly, in your own style. So you mix up Telekom and Slovenian railways. It's, you know, like, I don't know, confusing two completely different things. Telekom is one thing, today we all have cell phones in our pocket, that's something completely different than it was. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u237	Mr. Sok, we're talking about the amendment. Please leave your phones and Telekom.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u238	I'd be very grateful if you'd let me finish. So I'm not going to support this amendment, and I don't think it's entirely necessary to talk about it all day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. You have 54 seconds available. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u240	Thank you. I'll try to take advantage of everything. Mr Tank would like to read the magnetogram from the previous mandate, which was the position on the status of the Slovenian Railways. He strongly opposed a single system or a mix of public and private. That's it. On the other hand, the comparison of Mr Petan with those of Switzerland, Belgium, Germany. Switzerland, Belgium, Germany have never had tusks and have such organised railways as we propose with this amendment. A very serious content that certainly deserves, if nothing else, at least a serious analysis. As far as my colleague Sok's instructions are concerned, we're turning things around and it's not right. From three societies, as organised today, it is very easy to move into two and the final form that I have presented so that even some types of Dars can be organised. From the unit. Just ask the rail system what the use will be. From this you will receive all the answers [[...]] [[End of discussion.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Can I help you, Mr. Petan? Replica? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u242	Thank you for your word. I would mention that we have always represented such an attitude. You'll probably know which side of the referendum we were on. In fact, we lost the referendum because we advocated such a position. So we stayed consistent. That's the first one. Secondly, the government has now apparently taken the rescue of Slovenian railways seriously. The fact is, for example, that the implementation of public economic services and the financing of railway projects in 2005 resulted in 21 billion tolars being lost as a result of what was inherited from the previous Government. And this government covered it. Obviously, the previous government did not cover this or cover it with bookkeeping receipts, that profit was shown when the balance sheet was made in 2005, but a hole of 21 billion was found. And that's what the government first did, had to cover it. These are the facts. And so I don't know if the government has taken this issue seriously, that it has first fixed the matter, or whether the project it has prepared would be a continuation of it. That is why I trust this project, especially with such numbers at the time of the event, with such a system and such organisation, it is said that that system, that organisation, was not good. There has to be something else to do, and the government has come up with a proposal. Because the previous system was not good, which we have said before, that such a system would not be good and that is why the referendum was lost, indeed, very little, that even if it had been won, it would have been practically the same, but we are still insisting on this because we have seen such a solution at the time that it is good, and that we should not go into it. These 21 billion are due two years after the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I've pressed for debate if anyone else wants to discuss it. Check-in is on. Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor. Make it a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u244	In fact, in my previous term, I myself advocated this solution, what colleague Petan said. We did not agree with the solution to the fact that the profitable part is eliminated and commercialised and that the remaining two systems remain at the burden of the state and the state budget, so we also supported the solution that we then lost at the referendum. That's how it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] That is why we continue and go to the next point, this is the amendment to the 37th member of the LDS Group. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We continue with Article 38 of the amendment of the LDS Group. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We continue Article 39 with the amendments of the LDS Group. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We continue with Article 44, the amendment of the LDS Group. Nobody wants to debate, and I am thus concluding the debate and at the same time concluding the debate on the amendments. Mr. Secretary, you wanted a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u246	Thank you very much for your words, honourable Members and Members. I would briefly say what I felt from the whole debate today on this amendment to the Rail Transport Act. My assessment is that we have systematically approached the operationalisation of the European directives imposing market liberalisation on the Slovenian rail network, in order to prepare and propose through the amendment the organisation of the system, i.e. in the whole field of railways, so as to ensure transparency and in particular the purity of all business, relations, among all actors involved in this process. I would say that it is a matter of preparing for large investment investments and, in particular, that we must have investment management, the conduct of procedures that are absolutely necessary to do so and, of course, carry out all projects in a responsible manner, in order to ensure that the deadlines that are consistent with the deadlines already set out in the memoranda in the European Union are met. In short, all I would say is that this law also saves relations and responsibilities between all actors of responsibility and, above all, the division of tasks, as I announced in my hearing before entering the ministerial office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u247	Thank you very much. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item and at the same time inform you or interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 7.30 p.m. I inform you that, after the decision or vote has been concluded, the Committee on Internal Policy will continue its adjourned session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u248	Dear Members and Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Animals, following a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the LDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. I note that there were 71 votes in favour, 71 in favour, and 41 in favour. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the LDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There were 75 votes in favour, and 75 votes in favour, 24 against 44. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment of the LDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. 76 Members and Members voted in favour, 22 votes against 44. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. 77 Members and Members voted in favour, 16 votes against 44. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the draft law, as no amendments were adopted at second reading. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a legislative decision. In doing so, I inform you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting on the law. 77 Members and Members voted in favour, 49 votes against 17. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Plant Protection Products, following a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article under number 2 will become irrelevant. We're voting. There were 75 votes in favour, 25 against 48. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 1. We're voting. There were 73 votes in favour and 32 in favour against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. 77 Members and Members, 33 votes to 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 4. We're voting. There were 77 votes in favour and 66 in favour against 6. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 6 of Article 1 of the LDS Group. We're voting. 76 Members and Members voted for 31 to 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] We are moving on to an amendment decision under number two. Note: If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment under number 3 becomes irrelevant. Amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 6. We're voting. There were 77 votes in favour and 66 in favour against 6. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 6 of Article 3 of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 19. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 4 and 6 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to these articles. [[No, no, ……]] I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the law adopted the amendments would make the law inconsistent. We're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 45 to 33. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with the interrupted 13th item of the agendaMir, please. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on rail transport under the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We will decide on the basis of the amendments you have tabled in the bench in the amendment review. In addition, you have previously received the amendments tabled by the coalition today. So you have a complete collection of amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 2. I must warn you, if this amendment is not adopted, then all the amendments of the LDS Group become irrelevant because they are linked. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the amendment has not been adopted and that what I have mentioned earlier is that all the other amendments of the LDS Group that follow are irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to Article 2 of the coalition groups. The application shall be made on behalf of the delegation. The application shall be filed in its own name again. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u249	Thank you very much. On my behalf, I will object to the amendment for a simple reason because you have decided to throw 125 billion into the black hole of the Slovenian Railways, and after two years we will meet in this National Assembly, and I believe that we will correct the mistakes adopted on 31 January 2007.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u250	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 16. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We continue with Article 7, the other amendment of the coalition groups. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 20. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We continue with Article 11a, the amendment of the coalition groups. I reminded you earlier that you have these amendments on a special sheet next to a collection document. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 17. (For the vote was 51.)(against 17.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We continue with Article 15, the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 15. We're voting. There were 74 votes in favour and 49 in favour against 21. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We continue with the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 18. Do you want to discuss this on behalf of the Group of Members? In your own name? Commence application. Here you go. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, here you go. I assume no one else has been reported for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u251	I also assume that none of the other Members know exactly what you will support. So let me explain why I will oppose this article or this amendment. This amendment corrects some editorial error that has occurred because the Ministry does not distinguish between functions and tasks. While this matter is semantic but substantively at the time of this amendment, those who have signed something that has not been clearly signed today have been properly signed, while preserving the key problem of this law, this is the non-systematic solution that preserves the role of the Agency as a security authority. I will therefore oppose this amendment, and I regret that the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, even though they point to key systemic issues, are no longer taken into account in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss or explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. 76 MEPs and MPs voted on the amendment from a special list of coalition parliamentary groups. 76 were present, for 49, for 20. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 20:]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We continue and vote on the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups, which you have in your review of the amendments under number 2. We're voting. 73 Members and Members voted in favour, 48 votes against 21. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We continue with Article 22a, the amendment of the coalition groups. We're voting. 74 Members and Members voted in favour, 49 votes against 22. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We continue with Article 26, the amendment of coalition parties. We're voting. 77 Members and Members voted in favour, 49 votes against 25. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We continue with Article 27, the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. This is so-called paragraph 27.c. We're voting. 77 Members and Members voted in favour, 29 votes against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We made a mistake before, so please forgive us. In this great confusion of amendments, we voted on the amendment to Article 22a, but we should vote on Article 23. I would therefore ask that that vote be lifted and that we re-vote the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 23. We're voting. 57 Members and Members voted for 48 against 7. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on. What can I do for you, Mr. Squeakle? Procedurally? Mr. Mag. Hiccup [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u253	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u254	I'm asking, is this a procedural question?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u255	Yeah, sure, there's no other way, is there?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u256	Anything is possible with you. [[A laugh in the hall.]] Before continuing, I would apologize once again, for with this great crowd of amendments, after all that was happening this afternoon, I put to the vote or put both of us to a vote the non-existent amendment. Please understand. It is much more enjoyable to sit in a bench now and smile than to regulate these amendments. Thanks for understanding. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u257	Thank you very much. I'm withdrawing the procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u258	Thank you very much. I said anything's possible. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that in the second reading the assembly adopted amendments to Articles 2, 7, 11a, 15, 18 and 26 of the amended draft law, and 23, I am sorry. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article. I guess not. I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that due to the amendments adopted, the law would not be inconsistent. We're moving on to a decision on the law. I shall open an explanation of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Milan Friday, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u259	Thank you, Vice President. Minister with his team, colleagues and colleagues! In this afternoon's multi-hour debate, in which most coalition members did not take part, it turned out that the government had drawn up a bad marriage. A law which should in fact have a public hearing that the law is unconstitutional, prepared without adequate studies, without analysis, without an elaboratorate of economic eligibility. All this proved to be true in the 57 amendments adopted from the beginning of this hearing and from 6 December to today. I think that the opposition has proved that the amendments we tabled were justified in making the amendments consistent and that the law would actually ensure the implementation of the referendum will, which, after this law, is in conflict with the referendum will, is in conflict with the European directives and the law will in fact not improve the situation in the Slovenian Railways. The adoption of this law will make a big mistake. The government, the minister and his team will take responsibility, and the members of the coalition, who will, we believe, vote on the law. Think again about whether all of this is worth it. We will, of course, vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on behalf of the delegation? In your own name? I guess not. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 21. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 24th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. This would also remind you that in ten minutes the Committee on Internal Policy in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič continues its adjourned session. Thank you.
