ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, I ask you to take your seats and calm down. Members and Members who are still in the lobby, please enter the hall to begin the meeting of the assembly. Madam Members, ladies and gentlemen, I am starting with the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which was convened pursuant to Article 57(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mrs Maria Possonec and Mr Janko Weber. I invited Mr Janez Janša, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to the 1st item of the agenda, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, candidate for Ambassador Majdo Zupan, representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and candidates for the Constitutional Judges and Constitutional Judges and representatives of the Council to the 29th item of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 12 October 2007. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to a proposal to withdraw agenda items. The LDS Group proposes to withdraw from the agenda: a proposal for a law on landscapes - a second consideration, a proposal for an electoral law in the provinces - a second consideration and a proposal for a law on the financing of the provinces - a second consideration. You received a motion for withdrawal by letter dated 17 October 2007. I propose that we hold a joint debate on the proposal to withdraw those points and vote on each item individually after the discussion is closed. Would you like a representative of the motions to withdraw? Mr. Skull, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Regional legislation is something that has been a priority for this government and which has also been a priority for all political parties in this Parliament. However, the debate on these laws is quite unfortunate. Why are you unhappy? Especially because some of the problems remain unclear. It remains unclear, however, because the Government has not submitted in the package all the laws surrounding this area. That is why we have repeatedly said that it is unusual for us to go into a process of change in this area, without having a clear picture of what the provinces will be like, how big and what consequences this will have for people's lives. Of course, we share in this House those who believe in "a priori" and those who do not trust the Government "a priori". There are, of course, also parties who have a more benevolent view of provincial legislation and have therefore agreed at some point to move forward with some of the legislation. He's probably sorry about all this today. Therefore, it seems to me that for all the parties and all Members and Members in this Parliament, if this legislation withdraws from this meeting, the Government is waiting to prepare a set of regulations in this area, and that only then can we have a merciless discussion and, as a result, also decide on these solutions. Otherwise, we'll be washing our hands again Pilately, if you don't mind, we were expecting something else. In law, good faith is not enough. Clear proposals should be made and clear decisions should therefore be taken. There are no conditions for that today.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u3	Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Your hands are rising, so I'm opening the application. Mr. Jazbec, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u4	Thank you very much. We will not support the proposal for the withdrawal of the proposed three points in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, because we think it is pointless to put these points on hold. The amendment to the Constitution for the introduction of the provinces was carried out in June last year. The proposed laws, however, have been in parliamentary procedure since this spring. It is also unacceptable for all Members and online stakeholders to look at the remaining legislation contained in the package of so-called provincial legislation and to overexert themselves forever on how legislation is not ready and how it cannot be individually decided on individual laws, so we propose that these three laws be dealt with in the second reading at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u5	Thank you. Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present. I will probably not say anything new if I repeat that we support the decentralisation of the country for the second decade and the establishment of the provinces. Let me recall that we have been involved in amending the three articles of the Constitution and allowing for the procedures that are taking place now. Let me say that, in July, we opposed the withdrawal of these three points from the meeting of the National Assembly for the reason that we were able to have a general discussion, we also made strong comments and concerns during the day-long debate, counting on the Government's willingness to co-form these laws together. Today, too, we are not sorry that we did what we did. That we succeeded in withdrawing these points from the meeting of the National Assembly in September and that in October, that is to say now, we have failed with the proposal to withdraw these points from the parent labour body, which we wanted was an action aimed at facing all laws from the province and thus adopting quality-related legislation. We still don't have all the laws, they're just before the laborers, some are really published on the websites, but these aren't the laws that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia stands for. We are missing the key laws, the so-called technical law on the transfer of power, which is most important, we are missing the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes, which determines the number of areas and territories, and we are also missing the Law on the Establishment of Election Units for First Elections in the Regional Councils, which will later be done by the provincial councils themselves. We do not have much to say at this time, and we believe that the proposal of the LDS is to withdraw from this meeting of the National Assembly on the ground and to be justified. This will enable us, as I said in the introduction, to face the laws that are just ahead of the plant, the laws that we already have in the procedure, and in this way we can contribute to a better, better landscape. The time of two, three months in the Group of Social Democrats is not regarded as an obstacle to the establishment of the provinces, but we are certainly giving priority to quality laws, and we will therefore also support the LDS proposal to withdraw these three points from the meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, I will indeed support the proposal to withdraw these three points from the agenda. I would like to remind my colleagues or colleagues that we have been really opposed to the way this legislation is being prepared and adopted since the beginning. In our view, it is impossible, pointless and harmful if the debate on powers, tasks, functions of the provinces is considered separately from the territorial division of Slovenia or the provinces. Whether the provinces are larger or smaller, they are dependent functions, way of performing functions and so on. Such a separation has now led to an absurd situation where we are to deal online with some informal plans or divisions, some of which go beyond the limits of human capacity, which would constitute a serious, serious obstacle to the further development of Slovenia in such or other form. In the substantive segment of the legislation, certain tasks have been carried down from the country, nothing has been carried down from below, even though there are needs in certain areas related to the environment, the regulation of premises and so on. So this legislation, if we want it to be good, to have some impact on the development and decentralisation of Slovenia, must be considered significantly more new than it seems to proposers and even many others in the Chamber. For this reason, Mr President, we will support the proposal to withdraw these three laws, as I have already mentioned, from the agenda of this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u10	Your Honors are here! In Slovenia we have a thousand and several fourth saints. We have thousands and some local saints in Slovenia. In Slovenia we have a thousand and some municipal saints; in Slovenia we have 500 and some city saints; in Slovenia we have state saints; now you want the provincial saints. All the saints so far are in the wake of the siege, so at the moment at which we are now, it has been the call of the competent minister that they will be established in order to improve the quality of their stay in our country, so that the decision-making centre will be closer to individuals. We can see that this has not happened, not at the lowest level, not at the seven-level level, not at any intermediate level. On the other hand, if we had some ten local communities before 1994, we now have them in 2007 - 210. And because we are afraid in the National Party and from this city we are afraid that the same calvary as it has been with the local communities, that they have increased at every political moment, whether this political moment of the national elections, the presidential elections or, more recently, the local elections, that they have increased to 210, that this will also happen to the provinces. The fact that we hope to claim this occurred at the moment when the National Party's proposals were rejected by the National Assembly by the majority to define the number of provinces in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as the highest legal act within our country. We all know that the Slovenian Constitution is written togo. It is written in such a way that it does not change the political will of every time. We all know how laws change. The same law changes several times a year. As long as you try to enforce this power within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, your ruling Members, and subvert the number of provinces to each election, there will be no support for the Slovenian National Party until the said legislation. And from this city in the sense of not getting to some kind of quasi-land, quasi-landland, which has long since lost content for people and has become an exclusively political moment, in the National Party we support the proposal to withdraw the three mentioned points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u11	Thank you. Does Mr. Minister want to be a representative of the proposal for laws? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! When we talk about a package of legislation, it must be said that it is not possible to adopt all laws at once, that there is a need for a certain order of adoption of this legislation. Otherwise, we estimate that the whole legislation is ready at this time, is on the table and is essentially in the debate. The first three laws are before you in the adoption of the National Assembly. At the same time, this so-called technical law on the transfer of powers has been practically concluded and, together with this law, a projection of the financing of future provinces and the transfer of personnel has also been made with the preparation of the 2009 budget. So this part is actually completely done and it is known, it is in the debate. As regards the law on the establishment of the provinces itself, it has already been mediated, indeed, in the alternative proposals, because we are also expecting feedback in the framework of the coordination, and this is followed by the electoral unit law itself, which cannot be prepared earlier until we have a law on the establishment of the provinces. Thus, at the moment, the whole legislation is ready, in the debate and, of course, I believe that, given that the provinces are essential for faster development of Slovenia, that they are essential for a more coherent regional development of Slovenia, that they are necessary for further decentralisation, including financial decentralisation, I think it is right that the debate should take place in the National Assembly, and that, finally, listen to the decision you have already made when you have actually made the debate possible when you have decided to change the constitution and thus to introduce the landscape. I therefore think once again that it would be right to hold this debate, to take the appropriate decisions and to bring this project together in time to the end so that the provinces can also come to life in 2009.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u13	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the withdrawal. Mr. Skull, would you like to? On behalf of the parliamentary group, we are not opening a re-appeal, but as a motion for withdrawal, you can further explain your proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u14	Thank you very much. However, the Group of Members has also been the proponent of the withdrawal by thanking you for this word. I would like to remind my colleagues and the Slovenian public that what the Minister is saying, and what colleagues from the coalition say is, in some way, misleading. The fact that someone publishes documents online, holds internal debates or holds debates at various levels cannot replace what is a parliamentary procedure. What our parliamentary group always requires is that, suddenly, there are rules in the parliamentary procedure. Only then will we know what decisions the government is behind. Only then will it be possible to ensure that the government does not manipulate different people with different promises. Until he proposes all the rules in the parliamentary procedure, he may conclude a wide variety of arrangements behind the parliamentary backs. Mr Minister, what you have said that you need different information to talk to everyone, but you do not talk about these solutions in the framework of regular parliamentary procedures, further points me to vote in favour of withdrawing this legislation. I also recommend that you support these types of withdrawals yourself, because otherwise you may be able to implement these manoeuvres of voting, but you will prevent the adoption of legislation with the necessary two-thirds majority. You are forcing more than a third of Parliament to oppose these regulations, and that is, I will say, a dangerous game with the regionalisation of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u15	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the withdrawal proposal and brings us to a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. First, we decide on a motion to withdraw the draft law on the provinces, secondly, on the agenda. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 42. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. We decide on the proposal to withdraw the draft law on elections in the provinces from the agenda. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 42. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. We are now deciding on a proposal to withdraw the proposal for a law on the financing of landscapes from the agenda. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 42. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. We are moving on to a proposal to expand the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly, it extend the agenda by setting out a candidate who, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, acts as a Member instead of a Member who has taken office in the Government. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] This concludes the debate on the proposal for enlargement. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. The meeting will consider the proposal under item 28a of the agenda immediately following the establishment of the agenda. I now propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly, the agenda should be extended by considering the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on private protection, an urgent procedure. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I can only see one hand, two. I'm opening the application. The application for presentation of the views of the groups of Members on this proposal is pending. Mr. Run, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will abstain from the proposal to extend the agenda by amending and supplementing the Law on Private Protection. There are two basic reasons why we're going to do this. Firstly, the deception afforded to the public by the Ministry of the Interior in the person of the Minister and Director-General of the Directorate, when the State Council, as well as Members and Members of the National Assembly, who did not vote on the veto to re-confirm the law, charged that we should think of our guilt at the tragic event and death before Global. This is an abuse of the rights of the public word. We have also tried to prepare the Minister on the Internal Policy Committee today to admit that this is not the truth, but he did not have that power. There is no doubt, however, because we all know that in the text of the law to be confirmed after the veto of July, the Ministry has proposed a direct mandate to issue a temporary withdrawal measure. And if the law were confirmed in July, there would be no further authorization to suspend the licence and therefore the Minister's claim is purely misleading the public in the gravest way. And another reason. We understand that a tragic event can mean an apology for the National Assembly and for the Government to propose a reassessment of whether the powers that the Ministry has in law today are appropriate or not. However, an apology for the reassessment would only relate to those articles which confer those powers. This is mainly the issue of inspection services, the issue of licensing, the withdrawal of licences to individuals, the temporary withdrawal of licences to companies and the like, and not to propose again to the National Assembly the adoption of legislation in full, take a bit of a favorite, mainly in the text proposed by the Ministry or Government in July. All the discussions that we have pointed out that they are solving things in an inconsistent way, increasing the Ministry's powers at the expense of the Chamber of Private Protection, are repeated. We believe that this is an improper abuse of a tragic event to force content that would require more serious treatment. That is why we will not vote in favour of a resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, I think we have been discussing these issues for more than three hours on the Internal Policy Committee. In fact, in one way or another, we have all found that even the law on private protection, the novel, if adopted, could not have prevented in any way the tragic event that happened against Global. More than that, if adopted, the possibility of temporary withdrawal of licences would be deleted, even restricting the Ministry's conduct in such a case. Such an argument, of course, does not apply, does not hold and is misleading. Secondly, we have found that, at any rate, I do not claim this because we have not yet discussed it, nor will we be likely or will we ever be anywhere else, if the police do wrong in this case, but I do not say that it is, but the assumption that the police are now trying to turn the wrong way into inadequate legislation. The executor of politics, the real ministry and the police are trying to point out to us that we are the ones who did something wrong, and that's not the case. And the third reason I would like to mention is simply that the law on the parental committee will not be open until 8 a.m. at the meeting, so it has not yet been discussed, the business conditions are neither given, and I believe that it is necessary to wait for this consideration. And if the proceedings give a green light to this law, then it is possible for the National Assembly to convene an extraordinary meeting on this subject if it considers that this law will contribute to the resolution of these situations. I'm guessing he won't, but he probably won't. So we're not going to support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u19	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the proposal for enlargement. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda by addressing that bill. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 3. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. The assembly will consider the draft law as the 21st item of the agenda on Monday 29 October 2007 after the end of the vote. We are now moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference, and with a follow-up. We're voting. There are 67 Members present and 44 votes against 6. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the agenda of the 32nd meeting of the assembly has been set. I'm adjourning the session now. [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] I'm sorry. [[...]] We move on to the 28th A DOT OF THE DAY - DETERMINATION OF THE CANDIATION COMPLETELY WITH 14. A member of the law on missions performs the function of a delegation instead of a delegation that took over the government's function. The State Election Commission has forwarded to the National Assembly a finding which candidate has the right to replace Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, who serves as Minister in the Government. The findings were considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? Here you go, Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u20	Dear President, Your Honor! In accordance with its powers, the Commission has drawn up a proposal to confirm the mandate of the Member of Parliament, which will replace Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar in the National Assembly. The proposal for a decision proposed by the Commission for the adoption of the National Assembly shall take into account the notification by the State Election Commission to whom the right to replace a candidate from the list of NSI candidates, New Slovenia, the Christian People's Party in the third constituency for the election of Members to the National Assembly shall take into account the refusal of the right to appeal by the representative of the list of NSI candidates and shall be accompanied by an appeal by Anton Zakroška of 21.10.2007 against the above-mentioned decision of the State Election Commission of the Republic of Slovenia proposing that the appeal be heard in a manner that the finding be lifted and the mandate sent to it shall be confirmed. Following that review, the Commission decided to propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt the proposed decision, meaning that it would propose to the National Assembly to confirm the mandate of the alternate Members, and thus also to decide on the application of the candidate submitted to the National Assembly, which you have also just received on the bench. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u21	Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I can only see one hand. Mr Horvat on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all of you, dear colleagues and colleagues. We will, of course, support the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, or the conclusion of the State Election Commission, which acted exclusively under the Law on Elections in the National Assembly or more precisely under the 91st Article of this Act. Actually, things are very simple. The results of the elections need to be taken into account mathematically exact and allow me, Mr President, to say again that Mrs Majda Zupan has received 14,1403 ten per cent of the votes, Mr Anton Zakrášek has received 14,1356 per cent of the votes and it is clear that Mrs Majda Zupan has received a greater share under article 91 of the law. In fact, all the complications that were actually produced by the electoral commission of the 3rd constituency have also dissipated or declined. I am pleased that the State Election Commission has unanimously overturned all the conclusions of the electoral commission. Ms Majda Zupan was a member of the opposition delegation in the previous term, so she has experience. I hope and wish that a coalition Member will be able to work as soon as possible, and I wish her much success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u23	Thank you. Do Members and Members want the word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "As long as Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar is acting as Minister, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, she cannot act as a Member, so she performs this function in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of that Act as of today, Mrs Maja Zupan, born on 27 December 1950, residing in the village of 30, Rakek." We're voting. The vote is under way. 65 Members and Members are present. It's 63 votes against no one. (The vote was 63.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. Mr Majdo Zupan, Ambassador of the National Assembly, I invite her to join us and I wish her a successful representative. This concludes this agenda item [[...]] [[Applause]] and I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue at 3 p.m. with the consideration of item 1 of the agenda, which is with questions from Members and Members. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u24	Please calm down, take your seats. Thank you. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written notifications from 21 Members and Members within the deadline of business. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244, second paragraph, of Article 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Below, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Public Administration and Home Affairs will respond to the questions raised by Members and Members at the 30th and 31st meetings of the assembly, to which they did not respond due to their absence. It's a Magnificent message. Majda Potrat, who has reported on two questions, will ask the second question when all the Members who are registered ask one question. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask any further questions. I ask Members and Members to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of Finance Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Transport Mag. Mr Radovan Žerjav, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Mr Iztok Jarc, Minister of Health Mrs Zofija Mazej Kukovic and Minister of Environment and Space Mr Janez Podobnik. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, Minister or Secretary-General of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. The Member who has asked questions may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. You have received a review of the questions sent and initiatives which have not yet been answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions, as stated, will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Janez Janša. First, Mr Ljubo Germič will ask the Prime Minister the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u25	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr President, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Mr President, at the opening of the budget debate this year, you have informed the Slovenian public that proposals allow for the continuation of the pace of development and an increase in prosperity in Slovenia. At the same time, you convinced the Slovenian public that the Government has done everything to limit high inflation, which is the highest among countries in the euro area. That is simply not the case, we are already convinced by the discussions on the budget on the working bodies, and at the same time we are told by people when they go out every day to buy the most basic necessities of life. We are witnessing high stimulation of some of life’s necessities, such as bread, whose exposure is short-lived above 10%. The contribution of higher food prices to the general price rise is 4 times higher this year than it was last year. Instead of increasing prosperity in Slovenia we are thus witnessing the opposite trend, this is an increase in dearness in Slovenia. Of course, it is particularly concerned about the fact that there is an increasing social distribution between citizens and citizens, and that your attitude, Mr President of the Government, is underestimating and arrogant to these people and to some ministers as well. So, when you visited the government in Koroška, you tried to calm down your fears about inflation by saying, "If all the dumpsters in the cities are looking at crumbs of bread, it doesn't mean that the matter is alarming." A similar statement is made by the Minister of Economic Affairs, Mr Visiak, who tells the Slovenian public, Slovenes and Slovenians that if the bread has become too irritated, we should eat the old bread. Unfortunately, your statements and similar statements are not far from Maria Antoniette's statement, whose historical destiny we know, who once told her people that she had no bread, but that they should eat their way. That is why I ask you, Mr. President of the Government: When will the situation be alarming enough, bad enough, because there are a number of cases where people already have to collect bread from garbage disposals, and among them are not only beggars? It would be wise to provide them with a better life situation in the future, not to underestimate them and want them to. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I'm sorry. [[...]] I therefore ask you: How will the Government take action to reduce inflation in the event of high economic growth, and what measures will it take to protect the standard of citizens and citizens with the lowest income?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u26	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u27	I thank Mr Germich for this question. It wasn't nice, but after 10 days of some media campaign and contradicting a statement, it gives me an opportunity to give a public answer. I answered questions about inflation at a meeting of the mayors, economists and other developmentists after a visit to the government in the region of Korea. My answer to this question lasted 11 minutes, and you can fully listen to it and read it on the government website. No media has fully published this reply at this time. Only a few sentences were published, which were reversed, manipulated and used for the purpose of the presidential election campaign. Masters of pre-election propaganda from some totalitarian systems would be pleased to have such a media instrument, a political media instrument in hand, as was used in this case. My statement on this in the context in which it was expressed, but was given to 200 people in the Chamber, did not arouse any reaction, no surprise, and no one took it as offensive. It took a few days for one of the newspapers to rip a sentence out of the context and display it as if I were criticizing those who live on the edge and have to collect bread from the dumpsters. But I was talking about inflation, and my criticism was focused on the fact that in this country we throw 12 to 13 thousand tons of bread a year. For this bread we use a third of the wheat produced in Slovenia. The percentage of rejected bread in Slovenia is far higher, above comparable percentages in more or comparablely developed countries of the European Union. I didn't criticize anyone, but I was talking about the state of things that contribute to this basic need for life being more expensive than it would have been. If we didn't spend a third of the wheat we produce at home on discarded bread, the price of bread would be lower. And if criticism has gone to anyone, it certainly has not gone to the one who lives under the edge of poverty and also collects bread from the dumpsters, which is unfortunately still a fact in Slovenia. 10% of people in Slovenia live below the poverty line. We are the third best country in the European Union after this percentage. But if we translate this percentage into numbers, we get the number 200 grand, which is a high number, is too high a number. And the government's actions are going in this direction to bring this number down. And in this term, we have managed to reduce it. I think you have this comparison on the graph. Slovenia has one of the lowest percentages, but if we translate the percentage into numbers and if we see the numbers of specific people, this is still a very big problem. In this mandate, we have greatly reduced it. The percentage of people living below the poverty line, the percentage of employees who receive minimum wages, is comparable to that of the lowest, while at the same time significantly lower than in 2004, when the Government took over the mandate. This percentage and this number have been reduced mainly by increased economic growth, by measures that have led to greater economic growth, which has enabled the creation of new jobs, the number of unemployed has decreased dramatically, and the number of those living below the poverty line has also decreased. But that's not the final result. We wish that in Slovenia in the future, in the near future, our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, who would be under this burden, but something must be done. This government is trying. I doubt, however, that such twisted statements and manipulations contribute to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u28	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u29	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. President of the Government. The data on the proportion of people living below the poverty line also suggests that, on the international day of the fight against poverty, the humanitarian organization has reported that there are increasing numbers of people in need. In this mandate, we have adopted a resolution on healthy nutrition in this National Assembly. And I ask, Mr President of the Government: How can we respond to those who cannot provide themselves with basic necessities of life, how can they follow this resolution in order to live a healthier life? The health of the socio-hazardous population is getting worse with these differences. It is illustrative to expect that people who barely provide basic necessities of life will be able to provide means of healthy nutrition. Thus, mortality in certain areas is significantly greater than in other parts of Slovenia, for example in eastern Slovenia. In doing so, we are also witnessing a multi-year trend in the reduction of health care resources, both within the health and health budget, in the share of the social gross product. I therefore ask you: How will you ensure that Slovenia and Slovenia do not have to pay extra from their pocket for health services that should be covered under compulsory health insurance? How will you implement measures to stop food stimulation and ensure a decent life for the socially weak?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u30	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u31	As for the socially weak, I can only continue where I ended up earlier. There will always be a certain percentage of people who cannot help themselves and need help. 10% is not this percentage, there are still a lot of people who can help themselves if we create conditions for it. And our first task is to create the conditions for each of us to help ourselves. And in this mandate, according to internationally comparable data, we are going this way. No one can deny this, and I ask that this fact be taken into account. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, with the participation of Slovenian humanitarian organisations in this year and in the following year, will also contribute to the distribution of food, basic necessities of life. At this stage of development and economic growth and the standard that Slovenia achieves when properly organised, I do not think we need to have anyone who is hungry. This can be ensured and Slovenia has a relatively well-defined system of social assistance and also assistance through it. As far as health care is concerned, there are many problems we have been talking about, but there is no country in Europe where there would be no such problems. For these purposes it is, and you have seen this in the draft budgets for the next two years, provided sufficient funds. Even further, economic growth will be higher, and a greater share of the funds can also be given for higher standards in basic health insurance. As far as other measures, which are also very important, concern the protection of the standard of living of the entire population, the Government is leading an anti-cyclical fiscal policy, the Government has stepped up its control of regulated prices, and fuel spending has been reduced to the lowest possible degree, and part of the incentives for food products are due to the price of raw materials on the world markets, and part of the incentives are unjustified. It is unacceptable that the same articles in the same trading network in Austria cost less than in Slovenia. Here is the task of the competition guard, and here is the task of civil society consumer protection organisations with which the Government is well involved.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u32	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u33	Thank you very much for your answers, Mr. President. Of course, your answers didn't surprise me, but I'm not happy with them. Given that the provision of social security for Slovenia and the Slovenians is an extremely important area, I propose that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we hold a debate on your response. From your answers, you can understand that you are not prepared to deal realisticly with the content mentioned above, that you do not want to discuss the content that deals with social issues. You cannot avoid the feeling that you are having difficulty transmitting data that show a real picture. You do not recognize that you are creating an increasing social distribution of Slovenk and Slovenes through your policy in the Slovenian space. And that the problem in Slovenia is that there is an ever-increasing number of people asking for help and you do not see those who are forced to look for bread in dumpsters. Instead of solutions, instead of appropriate legislative proposals, we are witnessing statements, your and your ministerial colleagues giving negative messages to Slovenia and the Slovenians, which may also be an insult to them. I therefore propose that we hold a debate on the content of your reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u34	Mr Germić's proposal that the National Assembly discuss the response of the President of the Government will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mr Bojan Kontic will ask the next question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Mr President, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Already in the previous issue, the problem of inflation and, of course, the negative effects of this inflation have been exposed. Given that this is a very serious problem, it is worth continuing this debate, especially since I firmly believe that the proposal that has now been tabled will not be accepted by the government in the vote tomorrow, this is an opportunity for us to continue this debate here today with our question. Mr President of the Government, you have answered the question of colleague Majda Potrat that the Government has done everything in its power to reduce inflation and reduce the impact of inflation. In addition, you told your colleague in your reply that you have no other proposals and that you would like proposals that you could then use. We disagree with these findings in the Group of Social Democrats. It also disagrees with this part of the profession, but especially with the fact that inflation cannot be affected, those who we are do not agree, and we have also heard this today, who are dependent on it and are struggling to cope with the problems they face during the month when they want to develop a society like Slovenia in a society of prosperity, as we like to say, a decent life. Let me remind you, Mr President, the government coalition has already rejected the law twice in this mandate, which we believe would be welcome to reduce the direct pressure on wage growth and ensure employees' participation in profit sharing and domestic ownership. This law would certainly help to ensure that those who generate profits also receive a share of this profit without profiting solely from capital owners. We have twice introduced the law on employee participation in profits and internal ownership into the parliamentary procedure. He was rejected twice while it was announced that we would be considering the law presented by the Government. That wasn't there. Instead, we have actually heard that the solution can be that we eat old bread, that it is healthier and something else that has been said today.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u36	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u37	Thank you for the question, but I would really like to ask you not to twist words here too, after you have heard the answer and when you can read your statements in full. I would also like to respond to the claim made earlier, and I could not answer it in the context of the previous question that the number of recipients of social assistance and the number of those in need of social assistance is increasing in Slovenia. That's not true. The number is decreasing, mainly because the number of employees is increasing and because the number of those below the poverty threshold has fallen. It is true, however, that as long as one of our fellow citizens is receiving social assistance, this would not be necessary because he could work and we would not allow him to earn his living and to cover his social needs. As long as he's alone in that position. But the number, thank God, has been declining in recent years, and we could all be happy instead of flipping the numbers. When it comes to concrete measures to reduce inflation, the Law on the Participation of Employees in Profit would be very difficult to count as anti-inflation measures, the economists do not consider it. Nevertheless, this law is needed, the government has it in this year’s programme and will propose it to the National Assembly this year. However, the regulation of this issue is not so simple. If we are to come up with a comprehensive solution that will last for a long time, which we will also agree with the social partners, then much work must be done and we are doing so. The proposals you proposed were not consistent with the social partners, they were very partial and did not represent a comprehensive solution, which is not easy to do. If that were easy, then I don't know why we are talking about this law on employee participation in profit in 2007. You had a majority in this National Assembly for decades and more, in this country, even during socialist self-governance, and at that time the employees had no right to participate in profit. And even in the time of Slovenia alone, no previous government has prepared this law. Not just because I don't want to, but because it's not such a simple question. This government will do so, and this year you will have this marriage on your hands. The law will be based on the principle of volunteering, on the principle of equal treatment of all employees, on the principle of non-compliance with the acquired rights of employees, and it is envisaged that employees will be involved in profits in the form of money, as well as in the form of capital gains. We assume that the concept is not based on the principle of volunteering, tax incentives for employers and workers, in the form of income relief, corporate tax. We are also studying the relevance of the social security contribution benefits. It is not an easy question to believe that the previous government in which you participated would have made such a law. In this mandate, this will be done and we will try to reconcile the law with the social partners, because otherwise the solution will not work. It is not possible to accept only the solutions offered by employers, nor only the solutions offered by the unions because they are both unilateral. The government is trying to find a middle way now, which is based on these principles that I have presented.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u38	Thank you. Would you like a supplement, Mr. Contic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In part, you answered a question that I didn't ask, but it's not that important at all. It will be necessary to slowly change the thinking and evaluation of what has been done in the past. Three years of this government's mandate are behind us and it will be necessary to tell what has been done in these three years, no matter what has been done in the previous 10 years. With regard to the law on employee participation in profits; I know these stories from the outset, even then the Minister of Economy said that the most problematic problem in the law is the obligation and not volunteering. We have also proposed certain tax relief solutions in this law and so on. However, we have proposed a real obligation, but if we came from the explanations that we had already received at the time, then the obligation could be an obstacle, but then wages would probably not have to be paid or questioned, because they are also obligations under laws and collective agreements. I really want the government to draw up a bill that will be in line with the social partners, and I know that this is hard work, but after 3 years, you would expect what you have actually proposed in the National Assembly. And now we listen primarily to the fact that we live in prosperity. At the same time, prices are rising, wages are not growing as workers actually want, and so are warnings. In fact, my question was in this direction - will the Government draw up with the social partners a coordinated proposal that the National Assembly will be able to address and adopt in this mandate?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u40	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u41	So now an additional question has been asked: Why is this law not yet available if the government has promised it? The government has this law in its programme of work for this year. It is now October 2007 and the year is not yet over. By the end of this year, the law will be submitted and if it can be fully coordinated with the social partners. If it doesn't work, it'll just be as much as it can be. I wonder where all this knowledge was, which now suddenly came into play in the opposition benches before it could be used to make the law easy to adopt. I am not saying this in order to justify this government because it is not necessary because this law will be made, but because it is a great shame that we did not receive this law, for example, 8 years ago, because employees could have been involved in participating in profit for 8 years. Sometimes when we had so-called lions or social-democratic governments, it wasn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u42	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I myself propose, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, a debate on the response of the President of the Government to our question of the Member State. In doing so, I think that perhaps two proposals, which are almost identical, would suffice for the coalition Members to decide and support at least one of these and allow for a debate in which we will face views of this arrangement, both on your part, Mr President, and, of course, on ours. I could, of course, return the question to you, just as you asked us. Now that we have drafted in the opposition a proposal for a law which, of course, we consider to be of good quality. Of course, the government has more options, it has more expertise, which we do not have, even certain data, and it has not done so far. Social Democrats are therefore a real opposition party. You could have prepared such a bill in the opposition, as we did in previous years or in previous mandates, when you had the title of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. I therefore propose that we really hold this debate in this National Assembly, and we also discuss it and discuss the foundations of this law. And one more thing, the claims that it is 12 months old and that this year is not over, of course, stand as in all other laws, including those in which we are again and again just before we consider them in the National Assembly. And time is running unrelentingly. But I would like to remind you in this regard that we have repeatedly asked questions from Members of Parliament, as well as from the Members' initiative, so that this matter can also be regulated by law. If you look, the promises were made, I think it's in the second trimester of 2006 that this law will be. And several times later it was foretold that this law would be. At that time, your ministers avoided explaining how many months he was a year old, but they were actually predicting the exact dates when this law would actually be considered and adopted. But it's nothing, and slowly these stories are believed only by the warmest believers of the present power.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u44	Thank you. Mr Kontic's proposal that the National Assembly discuss the response of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. The next question will be asked by Dr. Lahovnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Government! As you know, major labour demonstrations are announced for November 17th this year, which will also be attended by representatives of students and pensioners. Workers expecting mass participation are demanding that their standard be improved, including because of high inflation in the last period. So I ask you: What will the Government do to ease the conflict that exists between workers and capital owners in the salaries and standard of employees? The unions are still waiting for legislation that will allow workers to participate in the profits. In this regard, I am particularly interested in what tax reliefs or incentives you plan to stimulate employers to devote some of their profits to employees. The law itself isn't enough, it's too little. Last but not least, companies could be able to pay the employee's profits by now, but they will not. We really believe that they should also be encouraged by tax reliefs. The Minister of Economy, who has now whispered something kind to you; for example, it would be better for him to prepare this law instead of advising trade unions and employees not to overwhelm them with any day of old bread, to prepare it and to accompany it with appropriate tax reliefs. In such a way that employees would actually have the opportunity to participate in this high economic growth and profit, which is precisely due to the employees. The fact is that the average salary of 820 euros is statistically high, while on the other hand 2/3 employees receive less than the average wage, that planned inflation, which the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis, the government office, is forecasting for this year, is 4.3%, and that food has increased by more than 10% in Slovenia over the past year and 2.5% in the euro area. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we really believe that we could prevent these major trade protests if workers, instead of consulting the Minister of Economic Affairs, would not be allowed to eat the day of the old bread, rather present a law allowing them to participate in the profits of businesses and companies should be encouraged by appropriate tax incentives to decide on this. In fact, without these tax exemptions, even if you send the law into the procedure, it will not stimulate businesses unless there are parallel tax reliefs. And let me remind you that such a law has already been passed by Great Britain and France and even the United States of America since the great oil crisis in the 1970s. And since obviously Slovenia is in some way faced with a bad situation in this area by this high inflation, we advise you to do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u46	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u47	As far as marriage is concerned, I think I've answered the same question before. The fact that some other countries that have been in existence for 100 or 200 years have already adopted such a law and that Slovenia does not yet have it is a question that can only be addressed to this government in three percent and I find it really embarrassing to have to explain it all the time. I don't know why Slovenia hasn't done this before. I can say that for the last three years we have been trying to make matter complicated, coordination between the departments takes a long time, I can say that part of this works in practice in the form of payment of the 13th salary, which is some specific way of involving employees in profit. But I am extremely surprised at how this social sense suddenly woke up before, and nowhere was it, when the LDS itself had enough votes to adopt this law in practice. The government is pleased with all the proposals. The government is pleased with all proposals that are constructive and allow us to come to a solution. Accusing each other why there is still no law, but if I was in power for 10 years in these 15 years of independent state life, it will not lead anywhere. We are with the SD in the Partnership for Development, the doors are open to these proposals, some of which can certainly be taken into account and I suggest that we unite these forces. As far as tax incentives are concerned, I'll repeat it. Tax incentives are provided for both workers and employers, in the form of a law or in the form of a system of income and income for legal persons. The possibility of paying social contributions is also being explored. When the law is before us, we will see if it is really what is useful and realistic for Slovenia at this time. As far as the predicted labour protests are concerned. Such protests are also taking place in significantly richer countries, but it is about seeking a balance between work and capital. I have a meeting with the representatives of these unions you mentioned on Wednesday. We'll see how much the government can do to help this situation here. The unions themselves said that the demonstrations would not be against the government, but against employers, where certain wage policy negotiations are taking place. There is also a meeting of the Economic and Social Council on Wednesday to discuss how much the Government can help. The government, directly when it comes to the private sector, does not participate in this relationship, except with general regulation. However, I am glad that there are many of those who are now interested in working wages, demonstrations and everything else, especially in this pre-election period. When various conventions are held, it is not possible to see workers there when different parties are established, but it is good that this social sense suddenly grows.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u48	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I asked this question because I firmly believe that if the Government presented the law on the participation of employees in profits, including tax reliefs, these demonstrations could also be avoided. If there are statements on the one hand that are extremely provocative to all employees, that I do not say to all citizens and that they are pouring oil on fire when we are talking about social peace, then it seems unacceptable to me. I think it would be much better if we presented this law and in this way, I am sure that we could also talk about what kind of salary raise is needed. And the fact is, it would work for the benefit of everyone. And it's not true that all economists say it doesn't affect inflation. It is for economists to determine whether, in the current inflation situation, very high wage growth could also have a questionable impact on the competitiveness of the economy and could lead to a black Portuguese scenario. Therefore, it seems to me that one possible step from this crisis in which we are in - and I hope that in these demonstrations that are before us, no one will say that everything is fine in this country - is the right step for the Government to present this law on the participation of employees in profits, including the tax reliefs needed to do so. We listen to the different arguments of the profession all the time, if there is a rise in wages, it will add to the oil to the inflationary fire, but it is clear that trade unions and employees do not understand why it would be those who have to tighten their belts with this high economic growth and with these high profits that the capital owners are receiving. Therefore, in fact, I think it is a really recent time for this law to be postponed, not least, the argument that these demonstrations may be prevented. If the government were less involved in partnership and more working towards the drafting of these laws, the results could be better, and I would not be asking these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u50	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u51	In the last two years, we have discussed this issue with the social partners several times, including personally at some meetings, i.e. with the representatives of these unions and at some point I agree with you as far as an agreement can be reached, but it is up to the social partners to ensure that appropriate regulation, when it comes to the participation of employees in profits, is in place and that this reduces the pressure on wage increases, that it is not a plus, but, or, the right alternative, then this can have positive effects on inflation. However, as long as the demands when it comes to wage growth are not reduced and profit participation is added, then this accelerates inflation, so that I propose that at least we try to influence those social partners where we have more influence to actually influence that there will be some compromise in this direction. This will certainly benefit us all, even when it comes to this pressure on price increases. In short, if the question was measured as a call in this direction, then you knocked on the open door. But that doesn't mean we're starting this debate now. This dialogue with the social partners on the participation of employees in profit is led by this Government for two years since we began to coordinate the social agreement for the coming period. This was signed, sets out some general guidelines, and now it is a matter of harmonising concrete solutions. The government will come with a bill, but then there will be a key part, coordination with the social partners. Since we are based on the principle of volunteerism, without this harmonisation we can get a dead letter on paper. And anyone who can contribute to a constructive solution is kindly invited. The government will be very pleased with this help.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u52	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will be next, asking the Prime Minister a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Mr President of the Government, distinguished ministers, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! On 11 September this year, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia - someone who may not like this date - adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Transformation of Insurance Companies on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This has been the case in the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, the Council of State requested that a subsequent legislative referendum be signed on the Property Change Act. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you: Why has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed the adoption of this law with the solutions that have encountered such resistance to the State Council, and what are the objectives of this law? We know that the ownership of the Triglav Insurance Company began in 2003, when the first valuation was also made, or the first evaluation report of the Triglav Insurance Company. In our parliamentary group, we find that privatisation in Slovenia has often taken place under the influence of interested lobbying and often to the detriment of the country. In the New Slovenia Group, we are pleased to follow the breakdown of the ownership of the Triglav Insurance Company in the case of legal persons, as the decision of the Administrative Court further confirmed the correctness of the decision of the Ministry of Finance, which in 2005 pointed out the risk of damage to state property. As a result of a valuation that did not reflect the actual value of the Triglav Insurance Company, there could be an exploitation of individuals and the state budget would be reduced by around EUR 50 million. Legal persons eligible for the purchase of shares were given decisions on the renewal of procedures on the basis of which the right to purchase shares could be exercised at a new, i.e. higher price. What, then, is the fundamental difference between the objectives that the Government wanted to pursue with the proposed law and the understanding of the State Council? In our Group of Members, we sincerely hope that the initiative to call for a referendum is not yet one of the attempts to retain the final privatisation of the Triglav Insurance Company and that citizens and citizens will decide for the benefit of the people of Slovenia, this is in support of the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u54	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u55	First, let me say that I am sorry that this decision of the State Council has come about because it makes it impossible for a solution that is, in my opinion, good. However, I did not propose it, nor did the competent ministry, but such a law was passed on the basis of a proposal by DeSUS, a coalition partner in the government. The State Council gave veto first and then a request for a referendum. As far as the veto is concerned, it is in some ways surprising that this high level of activity in this direction has been voted nine times in the previous mandate from 2000 to 2004 and it has been nineteen times in this mandate. There is virtually no law that would be important where we do not encounter this obstacle, and in this case there has also been a proposal or a request for a subsequent legislative referendum. This request is legitimate. The State Council has this right under the Constitution. The National Assembly has, quite normally, called for a referendum, but now the electorates and voters are faced with a dilemma that is very simple. If the law is confirmed, then a large part of the property of the Insurance Company Triglav will go to the pension fund, the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance, will strengthen the capital part, the capital base of the pension fund and at the same time relieve the pressure on the payment of the contributions paid by all employees for pension protection. This argument led the coalition to take into account DeSUS's proposal, amend the original text of the law and send it to Parliament. Before that, we coordinated the law within the Partnership for Development. The biggest opposition party said that some solutions could be better without them at the moment. The law neither supported nor expressly opposed him, I do not know how it voted. There was no better solution. The law was passed. Of course, then the councilman of the same party filed a veto and then for the referendum, which is a story of some credibility or credibility that did not happen for the first time. But now we have a simple dilemma, if the law is confirmed, then if the law falls then the status quo remains, because the referendum does not have two positive or equivalent solutions, but it is a confirmation referendum. If the law is rejected, there will be no solution, nor will those who are supposed to want it, because there is no such law. In order to distribute this part of the property to insured persons who had shelves in 1990, it is impossible, as the previous Government has found. While we were in opposition, we were skeptical, this must be openly acknowledged whether it is true or not, but also in this mandate, experts came to the same conclusion that it is technically impossible to do so. In addition, individuals, a significantly smaller number of individuals, many have lost these shelves, have no documents, and the records are incomplete. In short, this cannot be done justly, it would be a case. However, if this property goes to the pension fund, this benefits practically the entire population of this country, where our common interest is to strengthen the capital base of pension insurance, thereby reducing the pressure on contributions from living. So if the law is confirmed, if it is not, we remain in the state as it is, the right status quo, the desired solution of the applicants cannot be implemented, the pension fund will not be strengthened. So as far as this is concerned, it is perfectly clear what is in the interest of pensioners and employees.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u56	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr President, for that answer. See, there has also begun to be misleading and false propaganda by the candidates of the referendum and the call for a referendum, where it is necessary to vote against the enforcement of the law, so that the beneficiaries will receive between EUR 1000 and EUR 1300. Mr. Prime Minister, how do you comment on this perverted referendum propaganda? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u58	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u59	The explanation of the request for a referendum was misleading. There is no doubt about it, but it is the right of the one who writes it, but it is not right and such propaganda is incorrect. It's absolutely incorrect. The solution, as they put it, is ideal; the proponents demand, and this majority, which voted in the State Council, is absolutely criminal, because it would mean that only those who, at that time, accidentally kept this policy and these are few, can participate, others can not, but also if they were insured by this insurance company. No one's getting a cut on pretty eyes. And even for this part, the process is complicated and it would cost a lot. Thus, in terms of justice, which must be pursued when it comes to such solutions concerning common property, a solution is put to the vote, which is significantly better in law. At least 10 times as many citizens and citizens of this country will benefit from a solution that is in the voted law that is now being challenged, rather than from a solution that should have been adopted if the referendum's proposer proposed a solution. Even if it were proposed, if it were voted on, 10% of citizens and citizens would benefit from it, as opposed to the proposed capital increase in pension insurance because it is in our common interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u60	Thank you. We have thus concluded by asking the President of the Government questions. We continue to ask questions to ministers and ministers. At the 30th meeting of the National Assembly, Parliamentary Dara Lavtijar Bebler and Member Aurelio Juri asked questions sent to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitri Rupl. At the 31st session, Ambassador Breda Pečan and Members Miran Potrč, Dušan Kumer and Samo Bevk asked the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs of Mrs Mareti Cotman, Minister of Public Administration of Dr Gregor Virant and Minister of the Interior of Mr Dragutin Mate. Since the Minister and Ministers were not present at the meetings, Members and Members requested an oral response to the next meeting of the assembly. I therefore give the floor to the ministers and ministers to answer the questions. First, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, will answer Mr Aurelio Juri's question on the position of the Ministry on the establishment of the missile shield. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to say that, in my opinion, Slovenia does not want the debate on missile shields to bring division between members of the European Union or members of NATO. We estimate that there is a need to look for ways to link the missile shield in order to integrate this shield into the Euro-Atlantic defence security structure. We are also working to find such a solution within the framework of the institutions of which the Member States of NATO or the European Union are members. Slovenia, the Government, our ministry advocates an open and in-depth political debate on missile shields within the North Atlantic Council and for an expert debate within the competent NATO working bodies. In particular, NATO's professional debate should explore possible points of nexus between the American initiative and the structure, which is called "The Theatre of Missile Defence", is said to be a defence on the battlefield against short- and medium-range missiles, this is being developed by NATO. The Defence Ministers, at their official meeting in Brussels on 14 and 15 June 2007, set February 2008 as the date for the closure of the debate and for the preparation of a comprehensive report by all relevant committees on NATO needs, common interest and capabilities for a possible future missile defence system. In our view, discussions should also take into account the whole reality of relations with the Russian Federation. Therefore, a direct and frank dialogue on missile shielding with the Russian Federation is urgently needed. The appropriate forum for this debate is, of course, the Council-Nato-Russia, where the debate is already under way. In Slovenia we believe that the main leaders should be in the debate on missile defence, for the first time, constructive dialogue, for the second time, mutual understanding and, of course, transparency. Security concerns are an inalienable right of each country. On the basis of the threat assessment, the State shall ensure that the choice of such a form of protection is adequately secured by its inhabitants and its territory. The proposal to set up a missile shield in the Czech Republic and Poland is primarily a matter of deciding these two countries and their bilateral cooperation with the United States of America. That's my answer to Ambassador Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u62	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, I thank you for the answer, which, of course, does not please me, because I do not perceive any of Slovenia's courage to stand on the side of those - so far there have been few such voices, but in the Netherlands they have heard - who oppose this project for the sake of this because it has already been proven to cause exacerbation in relations with the Russian Federation and to trigger a new period of arms competition. I think that, in particular, the layout on European soil, despite the fact that it is a bilateral relationship between the two members of the European Union and the United States, is a policy which the European Union should not allow. But I hoped that even if Slovenia was to chair the European Union in a few months' time, it would gather so much courage and defend itself that we do not want to see new periods of nuclear weapons in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u64	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u65	Your Honor! I think we have the courage to say something about this missile shield here in Parliament enough and I do not believe that such courage should be tested. But it's another thing that's more important. The point is that I would not, as I said at the beginning of this reply, say that we would not share EU and NATO members with each other so that we do not have a conflict. For the time being, there is agreement among EU members among NATO members on how to act in this case, how to negotiate, how to conduct dialogues and so on. If I may say so, the success of the recently concluded EU summit or intergovernmental conference is a proposal for a reform treaty. The Reform Treaty imposes, let's say, a common foreign and security policy and I think that Slovenia would, especially given that it will be chairing the EU in a short time to act wrongly if it would put this concept in trouble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u66	Thank you. Mr Rupel, Minister for Foreign Affairs, will also answer the question of Ambassador Darje Lavtijar Bebler regarding the failure to comply with Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! With regard to Mrs Beblereva's oral question on solving the issue of bilingual local inscriptions in Austria, we have spoken a lot. And I apologize in advance if I repeat some things. I'd like to explain the following. We regret and are disappointed that this recent state-of-the-art attempt by the Austrian federal authorities to find a solution to the question of bilingual inscriptions in Austria's Koroška did not produce the desired results or that the commitment under the coalition agreement of the Austrian parties was not fulfilled. The solution is expected to be adopted by summer 2007. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is very closely and intensively monitoring the issue. We have consistently advocated the implementation of the rights of the Slovenian minority arising from Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty and the decision of the Austrian Constitutional Court and we support the Slovenian minority in its efforts to exercise its rights. In this context, there is also an intensive dialogue with Austrian interlocutors at several levels, including at the highest level. And there's a problem. Let me first say that we greatly appreciate the efforts made by Chancellor Gusenbauer to resolve the issue and the sensitivity he has shown in this regard. At the same time, we express our expectation that the Austrian federal government will continue its efforts to achieve a solution for bilingual local inscriptions in Austria and thus to the realization of all rights of the Slovenian minority in Austria. We also welcome the high degree of unity demonstrated by representatives of the Slovenian minority in their ongoing efforts to resolve the issue and thus have made an important contribution to the constructive search for a solution. But all things, all the tools are not in the hands of the federal authorities in Austria, nor are they in the hands of the Slovenian Government. In view of what I have said, I would like to deny the claim in Mrs Beblerev's question that the various organisations of the Korean Slovenes were not supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia. This, of course, is a preposterous claim. As before, the ministry will continue to work for the benefit of all Slovenians. On this occasion, I would like to remind you that the tasks concerning the Slovenian minority in neighbouring countries are carried out by the Slovenian Government for Slovenians in place and around the world. It's two things, and we often talk about it, and we often disagree. It is the rights of the minority, on the one hand, it is local policy, it is the problem of local policy in the Republic of Austria, and, on the other hand, it is the policy of good neighbourly relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Austria, which is why our ministry is primarily responsible and, I can say, it is a competent Slovenian foreign policy, in particular. If I shorten, and if I conclude, Slovenia will continue to monitor the issue of bilingual local inscriptions in Austria's Koroška in the future, conduct dialogue with the Austrian side and support the efforts of the Slovenian minority to ensure the realization of all its rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u68	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u69	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Thank you also very much to the Minister for Response, and I would like to stress only that the statement that Mr Minister disagrees with is not my claim, as has been said, but is a statement made by representatives of the Slovenian minority at the end of June this year. I am aware, of course, that the issue of bilingual local inscriptions and Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty and the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Austria is a difficult subject and that any government will probably have problems with this if it does not come across more in Austria. However, it is sad that representatives of Slovenian organisations in Austria have always stressed that they have not encountered sufficient support from the Republic of Slovenia in these matters. Last but not least, at the recent visit of the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Slovenia, Mr van den Linden also expressed his surprise at the fact that Austria did not express greater favour, including the European Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, which was adopted and ratified by Austria, adopted in the world of Europe and ratified in Austria. By coming back into a situation where representatives of Slovenian organisations turn to the international community and point out these problems, but not to in some way encourage greater activity on our part, because they have always stressed that they would expect Slovenia to do more at bilateral level to gradually address these issues. So, what you see as my claim is not my claim, but the claim of representatives of Slovenian organisations in Austria's Koroška. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u71	Thank you very much, President. Dear Member, colleague, colleague! I find it difficult to attach to what has just been said, because my information is that right now, during the time we are talking about, there has been unity and a unanimous consideration of the issue of bilingual inscriptions within the Slovenian minority. The Slovenian minority has united and we have to deal with processes of integration of the Slovenian minority, we have to deal with processes of pooling forces within the Slovenian minority, we have to deal with processes of pooling forces between Slovenians in general, we have to deal with some huge positive historical process of merging Slovenians and mutual support, solidarity, etc. I believe that this process of merging the Slovenians does not appeal to the many who would like to continue the division between the Slovenians. And so I must say that the policy that brings together the Slovenians cannot be bad. The consequences or achievements of such policies are also evident in the fact that more and more people are enrolled in bilingual schools in Koroška and that Slovenia is even in Koroška, where the situation is not easy, that it is Slovenian and that Slovenia is a success. After all, it is a success that two organizations who have been in their hair have agreed, so to speak, on the whole of history in the previous century, and that there has been cooperation between representatives of Slovenian communities or one of Slovenian organisations and a German organisation or German leaders in the Austrian Koroška. I mean, something new and something positive is happening, and that those who don't see it don't actually see the point. On the other hand, I admit that the problems are difficult, that they are not solved, that the problem of bilingual inscriptions and linguistic culture in Koroška is some sort of escape, in fact, some unseemly feature of that space and I promise you or declare that our ministry and the government in which I work will continue to try to solve these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u72	Thank you. Now, the Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, will answer Mr Miran Potrč's question regarding the criteria for the appointment of chiefs of administrative units. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! It is crucial for me, in all the human resources decisions in the field of administrative units, that administrative units provide a good, quality service for citizens and businesses. Administrative units must operate in a friendly manner to their customers. In recent years, I think they have shown that they are improving, that the standard of services is getting better. This will also be demonstrated by customer satisfaction data, and this is what is essential in this matter. At the end of June this year, the first term was extended to the vast majority of chiefs of administrative units, totalling 49. 9 There are those who have passed their term of office and have been appointed new and have therefore not expired at the end of June this year, like all others. And the law gave me two options. The first option was to extend the mandate and the Commissioners to the present existing chiefs. Another possibility was that I had launched a public tender. I have decided to extend the mandates of current or existing chiefs and chiefs in 18 cases. What led me to the choice was, above all, the quality assessments of the operation of these administrative units, consisting of an assessment of customer satisfaction, an assessment of employee satisfaction, of productivity, i.e. efficiency, number of cases resolved and so on, and on this basis I decided. Of course, I also added to this criterion my personal knowledge of these chiefs and chiefs. I consider them my team. I know them all the way to the last, personally, we have worked together a lot, and therefore I have also taken into account my view of their participation in projects at the state level, cooperation with the Ministry of Public Administration, the concept of thinking whether it is bureaucratic and flexible and oriented towards the user as I wish and as customers of administrative units do not. You can say there's something subjective about that. I guess it's also subjective, but as Minister of Public Administration, I'm also responsible for their actions and this responsibility is subjective. Maybe just a few stats. The mandate has therefore expired. In 18 cases I decided to extend the mandate, in 31 cases we went to new public calls, where we also invited those present or those who were then in the place of chiefs or chiefs and gave them the same opportunity as all other candidates. So, if it doesn't turn up better or better, then they have every chance to stay in this place, and in the first round of public calls, 11 more people have been named, if I may say so, chiefs and chiefs. So it's a total of 29. Of 49 of them, 29 have now held their term of office as chief. Well, in 11 cases after the invitation to tender, I did not choose any candidate, because our standards are high, because the customers of administrative units deserve such standards, in 11 cases none of the candidates proposed to me by the Commission of the Official Council have convinced me and I have decided to repeat myself. Was this any damage done to those administrative units where it happened? She was not, for the chiefs or chiefs there are still doing their work, but with the status of duty but with full powers and there is no problem. The law that allowed me this possibility - whether to extend the mandate or to enter into a public invitation to tender was adopted in 2003, was the proposal of the former government, adopted in the National Assembly with a large majority, and this law leaves the decision to the Minister. What do I expect from candidates and candidates for chief or chief of management? In addition, I expect, of course, the professional competences examined by the special call boards in particular: a non-bureaucratic relationship, a flexible attitude and that they are aware that the new philosophy of public administration is that the administration must act as a quality service for citizens and for businesses. However, I guarantee that in no case did I apply any political criteria when appointing.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u74	Thank you. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Potsch? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, with regard to his statement that he acted in accordance with the law, I agree and have never claimed anything else. That he took only professional and never political criteria into account in his decision-making - I can believe it or not, because, of course, I have no proof of that, and neither does Mr Minister. As regards dissatisfaction or the question I raised, however, it was possible to implement the law in a way in which, apart from the Minister and his knowledge of the work and his honesty and his attitude towards the staff, this quality assessment criterion would be wider and would include the Official Council. This second would seem more reasonable to me, because we have cases in which no individuals have been selected to meet all the criteria that have even been reported to a place that has also received high marks of the work so far have not been chosen. It can be justified, but this justification does not or does not simply remain in the confidence of the Minister, and there have been questions among individuals as to whether it is possible to cultivate this trust without limit and to believe that it is indeed an extremely right and fair choice. I must say, in particular, that I have decided, on the basis of the warnings of some of the chiefs, to ask this question because there are a lot of thoughts in the administration that it wants to be politicised and that not always remains the greatest of the big words about expertise and honesty, as the only criterion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u76	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Here again, I can ensure with all responsibility that no political criteria have been applied in the selection of chiefs and chiefs of administrative units. Now it's really hard to prove. We could go see if these people could agree to this, ask them about their customer affiliations, and see that they don't belong to the political parties of the current coalition. The oral tradition says that in 1994 it was different. When the first chief team was elected, it was an oral tradition that these positions were divided among the then coalition parties. There's a lot of talk about that, but I don't have any proof of that either. And if we really were to recruit politically, we would simply replace this structure. However, once again, we have retained the bulk of this team and many who are still on call will remain, from the current chiefs and chiefs of the administrative unit. And I think that even after this exchange, or after the conclusion of this procedure, most of the chiefs and chiefs will still be politically oriented more towards the parties of the previous ruling coalition than this, but I have no problem with that. For this reason, once again, the only thing that matters to me is that they work well for customers. And I think that a citizen and citizens don't care so much about who by name and surname will be the chief of the administrative unit in this or that middle, but they are particularly interested in the results of the operation of administrative units. But it's the fact that no one is eternal, and if anyone in this team thought it was eternal, that it was a position that was guaranteed so much for life, it was wrong, it wasn't. In 2003, we decided together to put these positions on the mandate to be five-year-olds, and no one can hold this position as if it were guaranteed until retirement or even longer. Otherwise, I prefer, as I answer such questions, to speak of the fact that administrative units have an extremely high appreciation of customer satisfaction for their work; that after a new one they also work every first Saturday of the month and that this has been intercepted; that no more customers send out copies, certificates and other evidence from official records, but obtain this data themselves; that employees and employees in the vast majority are friendly in administrative units and I really have to commend them for thinking non-biocratically and that they have been [[End warning sign]] a number of simplifications of procedures have been put in place. From, say, informing citizens before the expiry of the identity card, passport and so forth, to the fact that today two newlyweds may also be married outside the official premises [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr Minister will now answer Mr Dusan Kumr's question about the differences in the price of purchased land. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Therefore, the question concerns the purchase price for land in the area of the international border crossing of Babno Polje. Mr Members ask me whether the price of some more than 12 000 euros for more than a thousand square metres of agricultural area is a reasonable compensation next to the apartment house. Let me first explain the fundamental principle of buying or acquiring land for the purpose of building border crossings. In principle, the purchase is offered to the owners first, so the sale contract for these land is offered for signature. This contract sets the price on the basis of an official valuation. This valuation shall be carried out either by an sworn judicial appreciater or by a property valuer with a certificate from the Agency to facilitate the restructuring of the economy. So, it's an official evaluation made by an expert. The basic principle is to pay a fair market price for these lands. Therefore, to pay the owner a fair reward for what he loses, but not to allow anyone to enrich himself because of these infrastructure projects. So, there are two extremes; on the one hand, that someone would get too little for what they lost, and on the other hand, that the state would pay too much, more than some plot of real market value, so the price offered is based on official valuation, i.e. on the appreciation of an expert who also has an appropriate licence or appropriate status. In doing so, I must stress in particular that the principle is taken into account that property should be valued according to the legal situation before the project or prior to the change of destination before the implementation of the spatial act which is the basis for the acquisition of land. In fact, it is most often the case that when designing infrastructures, agricultural land changes its status to building plots and offers a price not for building land, but for agricultural land, because the owner does not deserve this plot to become a building plot and would pay too much if it were paid as a building plot, so it is bought as an agricultural land in such a case. And even in the case of Babna Polje, it was done so; hence, official valuations were made, on this basis a contract was proposed for the owners, the purchase of these land and in many cases the owners agreed to the signature of the purchase contract, and where they did not agree, the State has an instrument at the market price which is called decommissioning and also in the decommissioning of the value of the real estate that is loosed. Well, most of the time, price collectors use a method of comparable sales, that is to say, for how much comparable land is sold at that location or around that location, and it is clear on this side that the price of land in the Babna Polje area cannot be comparable to the price of land in Ljubljana, not for the country or for anyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u80	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In some ways, I thank you for this rather general and for the moment a concrete answer. But you're probably not familiar with the very things that are going on. You did not answer me one of the basic questions, which was also at the beginning of a large talk today, whether this price for the housing is more than 1,000 square metres appropriate and fair, given that we are all equal before the law. Your explanation that the government does not have a direct and talk to the valuers, the sworn, and so on, is just an eternal excuse that we hear many times in this hall. This just confirms that the government, and even in this case your ministry has established a system of permanent irresponsibility, first the law is written, the establishment of a company or the rental of a service which is government-controlled, interference, then called a supervisory committee, members become experts overnight, and then there is no such responsibility, but we apologize to experts. In short, in this particular case, your profession at the Ministry has prepared a contract to be signed, which was estimated at EUR 800 for this land. After the complaint, the valuation you are talking about was made for 12 thousand euros. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Following the re-appeal, there was a correction of €14,000, which provoked the landowner to hire his own independent valuer, who estimated the value of €24,000. [[...]] So this is the procedure. And I can pay you back because today you also spoke, only with your quote, which you gave for bureaucrats, Slovenian bureaucrat, even in this case for your ministry. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] : "The bureaucrat does not understand what he is paid for, the bureaucrat does not distinguish between essential and nonessential. [[...]] He prefers to be part of the problem as part of the solution." And that's also true in this case. That's your quote.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I suggest that this debate about who is a bureaucrat and what bureaucratic thinking is, we continue when we have time. I'm willing to talk about it long and wide. In these cases, i.e. land acquisition, either through redemption or through expropriation, my colleagues solve problems and know what they are paid for. They are paid, among other things, that the land that we acquire for the construction of border crossings is not overpaid so that the land does not pay too much tax money because the taxpayers would be damaged and someone would be rich. I will stress once again, absolutely merciless for the value of the plot of the appreciater's estimate. Of course, appreciationrs are not infallible, and they sometimes make mistakes that can be seen from afar. In this case, we demand re-evaluation. They do not take this as dry gold, but appreciation is always a key question of how much a land is worth, comparable, similar to a land nearby. This is a market method, the time of administrative pricing has passed. It's gone. The value of a plot is determined by supply and demand. It's worth as much as I can get for it in the market. And these methods are taken into account by the valuers. However, in specific cases, I allow the valuers to make mistakes. Absolutely! And if there are such errors in particular, I would ask you to serve with this information, to tell you where the plot was specifically assessed below, say, comparable land sold via an advertisement, via the Internet or in any way in the immediate vicinity, and I will commit myself to checking it out and to ensure proper appreciation. In principle, however, you probably agree that we cannot appreciate, other than through peers, those who value parcels. But there is something else, in the final sequence, if a dispute arises, the value is decided by the court - an unfair court in an unfair dissuasion proceedings.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u84	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Kumer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u85	However, I would suggest that, in the framework of the rules of procedure in force, the National Assembly discusses this response, because the Minister and I had a discussion on these valuations already on the committee, if you will recall, in the sale and purchase of state property. I will provide you with documents for this particular case. Once again, I would like to point out that I feel any way in all the elements where there is appreciation, where it is written that an assessment has been made with an sworn appreciater. But I ask you whether it is funny to say that another contract that is not for the purchase of land - it already seems too low and will be valid for the one that it has given itself, but a contract for the establishment of a real service where it is a second parcel, and a country for 440 square metres of this service contract, please, will pay this citizen in Babno Polje EUR 239. I think it's a long way from being equal before the law. If you are going to do the same thing in non-walled plots near Ljubljana to drive to your house where you are at home, when you are doing the same route or something else, you will see that for 239 euros this is definitely nowhere. But because it is Babna Polje, because this same lady, who is older, has the province of 300 euros, she also seems extremely large and agrees to EUR 800 to redeem herself. In Ljubljana, of course, people will not agree to this. That is why I ask you once again, and therefore I would like to have this debate about somehow drawing a line of equality before the law and some righteousness. It cannot be 15 times more expensive for the same piece of land in Ljubljana when in dialogue with the owner of this – I do not speak on the market of others, but the country cannot assess that it is 15 times more expensive in Ljubljana than in one Babno Polje. For me, this is an unfair attitude of the state towards citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u86	Thank you. On Mr Kumar's proposal that the National Assembly at its next meeting address the Minister's response to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Ms Marjeta Cotman, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, will now answer Mrs Brede Pečan's question about the employment of foreigners. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Madam Member of Parliament and other Members and Members of Parliament! The employment and work of foreigners in the Republic of Slovenia is regulated, as you know, by the law on employment and work of foreigners, which began on 1 January 2001 and was amended twice in 2005 and this year. The employment of foreigners is increasing and this year we have also issued more work permits, especially in the areas of construction, metal mills, metal industry and also automotive. With regard to work permits, and especially with regard to working conditions and pay, I can say that they also check the employment contract on the basis of the Labour Relations Act before issuing a work permit, determine whether all the conditions are given and also pay. Labour rights and working conditions are the same regardless of nationality for all workers, and the performance of these is supervised by the labour inspectorate. This year's amendment of the law on employment of foreigners wants to improve the situation of employment and brings this law a novelty so that foreigners who have been employed for vocational education and have been resident in the Republic of Slovenia for two years can obtain a personal work permit with the validity of three years and are therefore no longer dependent on the employer or need the employer to apply for a new work permit. On the basis of this procedure, it will also reduce the acquisition of work permits at the employment facility by a few thousand procedures. With regard to the registration of foreigners as independent entrepreneurs of individuals, we have tightened the conditions in the law, so that the independent entrepreneur, prior to obtaining permission, must show a rental contract for the rental of premises or ownership as well as the amount of funds, which is EUR 10,000. That is why the number of independent entrepreneurs has also decreased in the last year. With regard to the issue of the application of labour inspectors, we believe that more procedures could be found if workers themselves report infringements of procedures or employers themselves who employ foreign labour are in some unequal position against those employers who violate labour legislation vis-à-vis foreign workers. The law lays down high fines for infringements, as well as the prohibition of new employment in the event of a criminal offence, which prohibits new employment from one to three years, depending on the severity of the offence. In 2006, the labour inspectorate in the employment segment and the work of foreigners found a total of 488 violations, of which 403 violations of the law on employment and the work of foreigners, 82 violations of the law on prevention and employment in black, one violation of the labour relations relating to the provision of the right of posted workers and two infringements of the regulation governing the application of employment or the provision of EU services to citizens. The inspectors issued 204 infringement decisions, 182 payment orders, and statistics for the first half of 2007 show that the inspectors found a total of 262 infringements, including 220 violations of the law on employment and the work of foreigners and 38 violations of the law on prevention and black employment. The supervision of the work of foreign employment is conducted, as I have already said, through the Inspectorate for Work in cooperation with Durs, with the police and also with the Market Inspectorate and the Transport Inspectorate, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , because you are asking whether the ministries are inter-departmental in the inspection, in the preparation of regulations and in the joint inspection actions. [[...]] Greater cooperation [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u88	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Pecanova, would you like to complete your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Madam Minister, for a very comprehensive answer. I must say that what you intend to do about cooperation between individual ministries is actually one of the reasons why I asked this question at all. In fact, the information that I spoke about in my own explanatory statement that they are unofficial, is quite reliable, namely, that these workers get 400 to 500 euros in wages, that they have a free apartment, but this is an apartment that sleeps up to 30 people on 50 square meters - I don't know how, maybe they sleep on shift - and that these people have to pay for their food from their net wages. Thus it has already happened that a group of workers who came to work in Slovenia from Bosnia and Herzegovina, after one month, was picked up because they could not even send 100 euros to their family home because they found that they were not to be paid to work with us. The fact is that there are living conditions - so I specifically asked whether there is also cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Space, here I was thinking about housing inspection to detect such abuses. In fact, the fact is that in Slovenia and outside Slovenia, these people who provide work to a foreigner are actually introducing into the EU and Slovenia together with it, we can say, some kind of slave work. And for this reason, I think that cooperation between individual departments should be increased, because such abuse, the exploitation of foreign labour, which in some ways also constitutes unfair competition for our workers who do not get a job if the employer can get a cheaper one. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u90	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u91	I am grateful that you have asked this question, because this issue is very important and this is a problem facing different ministries, not just our ministry. That is why the Government has already adopted a decision in March to draw up an overall strategy for migration policy with us, and by the end of October it is time to prepare with the various departments of the Ministry the whole issue that arises in this area. And we will certainly take into account - because in the meantime I have not seen the Ministry of the Environment to include the Ministry of the Environment in this strategy as regards housing conditions. In the field of the European Union, however, this issue is very important and has so far been mostly addressed by the Minister of the Interior within the EU. At the beginning of December, however, there is a special meeting of Ministers for Home Affairs and Ministers for Work on the subject of migration and a number of migration-related issues, as Europe is also facing migration, especially labour migration, and therefore the EU's legislative proposal on migration provides for three directives that, I am sure, will also improve the situation of foreign workers not only with us but also with us abroad. This is a proposal for a directive on a uniform residence and work permit in a Member State and on the common rights of workers, third-country nationals legally residing in a Member State. Then the proposal for a directive on highly qualified workers and a proposal for a directive on sanctions for employers who employ third-country nationals who are residing illegally in EU Member States. All these directives force us, the individual ministries, both the Ministry of the Interior, to work, including the Ministry of the Economy, the Ministry of Justice, to cooperate and not least the Ministry of the Environment, to determine the conditions under which the workers who are at temporary work are staying with us. Thus, your proposal is welcome and in this strategy, which we intend to draw up, we will also include the Ministry of the Environment in order to ensure that these workers are provided with adequate conditions, as workers are increasingly being and need them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u92	Thank you. Now, Minister of the Interior, Mr Dragutin Mate, will answer Mr Sam Bevik's question about the camping arrangements. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member! I apologize for not being here last time because of my obligations with regard to the European Union. The Law on the Safety of Public Order and Peace, which was adopted or adopted in 2006, details more precisely what camping is and determines where this is permitted. Article 18 specifically prohibits camping in premises, in public places where this is not specifically specified and where it is not regulated by the regulations of the local community or otherwise that camping can be carried out. At the same time, camping is prohibited on premises that are private property or an owner or person who has a place to rent. Thus, if such camping takes place in this area, there is a fine of just over €80, and at the same time it is also defined what camping is - this is considered to be camping, setting tents or other facilities with a view to temporary residence. With regard to the parking of motorhomes in arranged parking spaces, which stop there due to temporary stop during travel, let's say for a few hours - this does not mean camping under this law and therefore it is not a violation that would be dealt with under the law on public order and peace. The same for cars, of course, is true of motorhomes on private land, to stop on private land and want to stay there longer and camp, they need the owner's permission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u94	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u95	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, the honourable assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues. I thank the Minister for his reply, but most of the things that have been raised in response, we know these things - what camping is, where camping can be done, where not. This is mainly another matter, namely tourism, which is linked to the development of this type of tourism. It is said that with cars through Slovenia travels very many foreigners, stop for more or less time, and this area is quite disorderly. Only a few local communities have so-called care centres for these motorhome tourists. Here I mean, it's not about classic camps, but it's about arranging these care centers to stop, do what it takes in time. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That stop and then they move on. [[...]] This tourism is on the rise in the world, especially in Europe, so I think that, in the example of some other European countries, we should also regulate this area more precisely, more legally. For example, France has this in two laws, in the law on transport, in the law on urbanism. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] whether or not the vehicle is treated as a vehicle or as a residential unit. [[...]] I think the ministry could think this way too and regulate this legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u96	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Article 18, as I have already mentioned today, also sets out more precisely what are the tasks or opportunities for local communities, how they can regulate this area in their rules. At present, the situation in Slovenia is such, and legislation foresees that, with regard to the establishment of vehicle supply centres, which in essence mean the possibility of connecting to an electric source, sanitation, water and everything else that is needed and can be directly connected by motorhomes, it means that, in accordance with this law, local communities can make an act to identify, identify and equip such places. They can do so by means of a municipal decree, and they can carry it out. Of course, if local communities knew that they had difficulty in making these decisions, how to deal with them, they could help to draw up such a decision together through the organisation of local communities. And your proposal, which you have made, if we are practically thinking about helping, I can say that there are no serious problems and questions in this regard at this time. However, given that this tourism has really increased, as you said, it is best for us to sit down with Slovenian municipalities, with their representatives and talk if there are serious problems, and find solutions. And if we have to, we'll also rescue them by means of illegal acts. However, the current situation is that the decisions are those that enable this area to be regulated, and we are prepared, of course, to cooperate in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u98	Thank you. We are now moving on to the first round of questions from Members and Members, the first current round today. Mr Miran Potrč is supposed to ask the Minister of Environment and Space, who is absent. Do you want to set it up anyway? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will briefly inform the Minister of the reasons why I am asking the oral question so that the next time I ask him, I can also answer a sufficiently qualified oral question. It's two things. Firstly, I have asked the Minister in the last year and a half several times about the preparation or preparation of a housing law relating to the situation of housewives. He always gave me kind answers, I admit, but the answers didn't come from anything. Indeed, the law was not ready, so we have tabled it by Members and Members of Parliament. And his response to the content of the prepared proposal is about the same again - we are seriously studying, preparing, making an appropriate proposal in due course, which will be much better than what you have prepared. It doesn't do much good. And second reason: in public there was a warning from the company of tenants of apartments, this is a society that only deals with the position of tenants to be concerned with the announcements of the Ministry of the Environment and the space to prepare in a short time a more extensive novelty of the housing law, which will also address their situation, but without cooperation with them. This seems very bad to me, because we all know that this society of the year deals mainly with the position of tenants, especially the position of tenants in denationalised apartments, and their fear of the situation, is said to protect their housing rights, the height of the rent, the possibility of cancellation, has repeatedly aroused uncertainty. That is why I asked the minister to answer me: When will the government put into the National Assembly a novel of the housing law that he foretells? Did the Ministry of the Environment and Space in the preparation of this novel cooperate with the association of tenants? What suggestions of that association have been taken into account or not? And thirdly: What will be the most important emphasis on the proposed amendments and the addition of the housing law? And: Will or will not the level of the acquired rights of tenants, in particular those living in denationalized apartments and those paying non-profit rents, be reduced? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u100	Thank you. If I understand correctly, the Minister should have answered orally. He will answer your question at the next meeting. Mr Jožef Školč will ask the Minister for Home Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the last elections, there were many questions related to the decision of the Republic Election Commission to send electoral material to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia residing around the world, but few asked how it is with this electoral directory. I would ask Minister Matthew - because this special electoral directory or this register of electoral rights is kept in the central register of the population - if they are clear at this point: How many electoral beneficiaries are in this title? In a recent reply, it was said that 73,000,521 citizens were listed on the 11.10. And we have been monitoring the complications, and we have seen that the number of people who have received electoral material changes from day to day. The law, which we have recently amended, also requires the Ministry to regulate these records on official duty until 2 June of the current year. I ask him, "Why didn't it do this?" Who's responsible for this? How many people do we really have in the directory? Who decided who got the electoral material and who didn't, since we heard that only half the electoral beneficiaries got the electoral material? And: Does he not worry that very serious questions can be asked from this title? It is impossible for out of 73,000 electoral beneficiaries, as his staff say, to have them listed in this directory, for electoral material to receive significantly less than 50,000 beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This question is substantially broader than you put it at the outset, but I will try to answer all these numbers. On the question of how the electoral directory of the Republic of Slovenia was created, it must be made very clear that the Law on the Registration of Election Rights of 29.6.2002 stipulated how citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who do not live in Slovenia enter this record. He decreed that they should be entered in the special electoral directory of all persons who were entered in the electoral directory for the 1997 presidential elections and the 2000 state-level elections. After 29.6.2002 this record was supplemented - this was automatically entered, these categories of persons I described - it was entered into data on citizens in two ways: by official duty for all those who have received Slovenian citizenship and do not live in the Republic of Slovenia, and for all of them it was entered into this directory by official duty who moved from the Republic of Slovenia for various reasons and for a certain period or for a long time or for a permanent period of living elsewhere. At the same time, all those persons who requested to be entered in this electoral directory were entered in this directory. In this way 12,444 Slovenian nationals who do not have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia were entered on 2.12.2006. On 2 November 2006, a supplement to the electoral record law, which entered into force on 2.12.2006, was adopted and laid down in Article 10 what the competent authority, the Ministry of the Interior, should do. We have been asked to register citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia in the electoral directory on an official basis. Simply stated, we were told that all those persons who were Slovenian citizens before 29.6.2002 and did not require them to be entered in this directory, on an official basis, according to the data available to diplomatic consular representations, the ministry or administrative units, should be entered in this electoral directory. We did this work, and we had six months to do it. As I said before, we had 12,444 Slovenian citizens on 2.12. when the new law began to be valid. On 24.8.2007 we had 73,911 Slovenian citizens entered in the electoral directory. As you know, numbers are constantly changing, people are dying, people are moving, some are returning to Slovenia and applying, just as the law requires of them. Some travel and apply to travel from country to country, so this number changes from day to day. We have very precise figures, and I can say with full responsibility that we have accurate data in our ministry, which are always tied to freezing to a certain date. It is said that during these six months, 61,467 Slovenian citizens without permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia were entered into the electoral directory. On the day this electoral directory was completed, specific tasks are specified, you know them better than most citizens, and exactly 73,521 citizens who do not have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia were registered. Of this, it is necessary to indicate what information has been entered. For 51,029 Slovenian nationals, the data entered in this directory were such that they spoke of the country of residence and the address of the place of residence where they could send a ballot or a card. For 22,492 citizens, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the administrative units have not been able to obtain the information in which these citizens are located, so the difference you have been talking about arises. [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] In view of the decision of the Republic Election Commission, which I, you know, am not responsible for and cannot comment on, I must say, is in the initial decision [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u104	Thank you very much. My fellow schoolboy, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, this is a big "slamparium" you're doing. There's no other fairer term for that. Article 27 states that the electoral directory for citizens who do not have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia has the following columns: serial number, surname and name, sex, date of birth, last permanent residence of a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia or one of his parents in RS, permanent residence abroad and notes. These numbers you gave are, of course, numbers we know and why we ask you: How can you not have 33,600 addresses of 73,521 people entered in the directory? Even if you do not know for 22,000 which country they are in, yet you write them in a directory, which is unusual, you still haven't explained where 11,000 electoral beneficiaries and beneficiaries are. Mr. Minister, I believe you have poor records that your services have done this job on official duty in a manner that does not arouse trust. Can you tell me why that is?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Chairman. All I'd do is run out of numbers. 4,962 electoral cards were sent abroad at the request of the citizens who requested these ballots and, following a change in the decision of the Republic Election Commission, 44,865 electoral cards were sent to Slovenian citizens. So it's all been sent to 39,903. Why is there this difference that you're talking about - very easy! I told you, for 22,492 citizens, we have no information on the country they are in. We have officially entered them, but the data in which they are located because we do not have it in the official records, because they have not reported it themselves, cannot be entered. For some, for those 11,000 you mentioned, we have only a country, for some we also have a country that no longer exists, as has been said in the media. For example, there was a Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and because the address was not entered, but only the country was introduced, we cannot break down and determine which country it is now in. There are people who were reported years ago to have lived in the Czechoslovak Republic when it existed. And since there was no title and place written on the ground, of course we cannot break down and tell which country this person is now in. If she fails to do so herself, the officials and the ministry may record only the information she has at her disposal. And for 11,000 people, like you say, it's a "shampariya," I have to be very clear -- it's not a "shampariya", it's a state everywhere, but there's no address to allow such an electoral ticket to be sent. And that's all this is about. There's no street, no house numbers, no place to stay. And if that's not the case, of course you can't just send it to your name and country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u108	Thank you very much. My fellow schoolboy, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u109	Mr Minister, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will propose a debate on this. I doubt, however, that we will be ready to discuss this here, but, Mr Minister, if the 27th article dictates that one of the data is a permanent residence abroad, then it is extremely unusual for you to record someone in a directory without this data, to record them without a country, to enter people with a questionable date of birth, where - if we are correctly informed, unfortunately we do not have data for this - we have some records for Guinness's book on age in the world, etc. What I am asking you here and you are dissuading something without giving the necessary attention to the issue, the information we all already know is: How is it possible for the Slovenian public to deceive that there are 73,000 electoral beneficiaries, that you are telling the Slovenian public that it is necessary for all these beneficiaries to have access to the elections, while at the same time not allowing 33,000 electoral packages to be sent. This is alarming: according to the directory and also according to very narrow outcomes. Are you not concerned that someone asks you that you have contributed to the questionable outcome?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u110	Thank you very much. We will decide on the proposal by Mr Školč tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Members will decide if the Minister wants to participate in the general debate. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. The next question will be asked by Member Samo Bevk, Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u111	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The population of Europe and Slovenia is ageing. The projection of the ageing trend is extremely embarrassing. According to projections in Europe and consequently in Slovenia, the number of people over 65 years of age is almost doubled by 2025. Furthermore, the proportion of those of our population who will be 80 years of age or older will increase significantly. Institutional protection or care for the elderly is a major test. At the end of 2006, we had a total of 16 000 587 cities in Slovenia in homes, of which 12904 cities in public institutions, which is taken care of by 54 contractors, and 2047 cities in concessionaires with 18 contractors and 1634 cities for residents with special needs in special institutions. Today the total number of applications for admission to homes is 13647. The problem is being tackled by granting concessions and increasing the number of tendering places, which is commendable. However, the state of public institutions is worrisome because they do not have the resources necessary to rebuild and to expand their activities properly, and for this purpose the Ministry has a strong lack of resources for regular maintenance work, not only for interventions, but rather for the need to avoid the need for leaps in the quality and scope of services and new constructions. There is also a serious problem with limited health insurance facilities for health care, as the capacity allocated to concessions cannot be further expanded. One possible solution is the Public-Private Partnership Act and the status changes for existing public institutions. In this regard, I would like to ask: How can they maintain their public function and normal business? I ask Marjeto Cotman, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs: In view of the lack of budgetary resources for the construction and greater investment and maintenance of institutions for the care of the elderly, how will she encourage investment on the basis of the principle of public-private partnership? I am also interested in the end: How is the country's concrete investment in the home of older citizens in Idrija resolved and the willingness of the Idrija economy to finance this new construction? Thank you very much in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your question, and I ask Mr Cotmanovo for your answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The National Social Protection Programme provides, inter alia, for the transfer of the performance function in the field of public welfare institutions to other entities by 2010. The national programme has also set out that it will be necessary to prepare and in practice test a model for the gradual transfer of the performance function to some social security institutions, including nursing homes. Solutions, as you have already mentioned, in the Public-Private Partnership Act provide more concrete solutions to public-private partnerships. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has already been associated with experts in the field of public-private partnership and representatives of contractors, and is preparing a specific pilot project for the introduction of a public-private partnership in the field of home for the elderly for next year, which is expected to take place in the following three ways. The first transfer of activities, the contractor is a private company and the property of the public institution remains state-owned. Secondly, the beginning of the construction of a new home for the elderly in the form of a public-private partnership, and the third time, the expansion or transformation of the existing home based on private capital investment. With the pilot project, we only want to examine carefully a few cases of possible solutions to the public-private partnership, which will then be able to serve if it is good, even as a basis for further longer-term solutions. At the same time, it is also necessary to mention a specific aspect of the public-private aspect of home for older people who already exist. In recent years, the Ministry has granted concessions for the implementation of institutional protection activities to 26 private homes, from which implementation has started so far 18. These homes are an important complement to the home network for the 54 - year - olds. In Slovenia we have 14,500 cities for the elderly, which means we are behind about 1,500 cities, which is the goal of a national programme that sets 5% as the necessary number of places in institutional protection for the population over 65 years of age. Given that the number of older populations is increasing, it will be necessary to provide new capacity in the future despite the current open public tender, the award of concessions. Next year we will have 1,200 seats open on the basis of concessions from previous years. On 3 August, however, we issued a public contract for the award of institutional protection concessions and this invitation is open until 23 November 2007. So far, the tender documentation has raised some 80 potential bidders and by the time the tender deadline is reached 30 to 40 tenders. The contract provides for the award of concessions for the Ljubljana area - 450 cities, for the Maribor area - 150 cities and for the remaining administrative units - 1,000 cities. Concessions are granted with a time limit for the start of activities in 2008 - 150 cities, 2009 - 500 cities and 2010 - 905 cities. Given that Ljubljana and Maribor lack the most [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and that there are the longest waiting periods, we want to hold another public competition for about 800 concession cities in early 2008. However, the key criteria for the competition published are the coverage of the needs for individual areas, the service delivery programme and also the price of the service. The Ministry, however, assumes [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Comrade Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u115	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would have an additional question so that the Minister will be able to complete her answer. But I'd be more specific. Indeed, in 2003 the Ministry decided to carry out a new construction in Idrija. So far, more than 500 000 euros have been invested, mainly for projects, so this matter is just before the application for a building permit. However, since more than €8 million is foreseen in the state budgets and in the country's development plans for this investment, it is unrealistic to expect to start construction without some new fresh capital in the period from next year to 2011. The Idrian economy is prepared to co-finance this project on the basis of a public-private partnership and would therefore appeal to you to accept this offer as soon as possible. Specifically, there are concrete answers and arrangements, because the Idrija economy is waiting for the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to respond, as this capital now available can happen to invest elsewhere unless an agreement is reached in due course. In fact, you said earlier that this pilot project would start next year. In this particular case, I think we should hurry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u116	Thank you. And I'm asking the Minister for an additional answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u117	If I don't finish now, then I'll tell you. In the following year we also anticipate the financing of the Real Estate Fund of the ZPIZ to increase, as the Real Estate Fund has a higher amount of money. Since it is millions of euros, it is also a major profit and has so far deposited its money in securities. Since we know that the investment in paper money is not being paid, this year the government rejected the real estate business plan and ordered the Real Estate Fund to start investing in homes for the elderly; and this is the part where you pointed out that insufficient funds were earmarked in the budget because we expect or will get this money from the Real Estate Fund. Because this is really about the millions of dollars that have now been earmarked for material housing instead of for homes for the elderly. And the Idrija home could be saved from this money, either with the money of the Real Estate Fund or with the public-private partnership. As I mentioned earlier, it will also be possible to invest private capital in public institutions owned by the state, with these pilot projects, in a public institution where it is still a public institution. Of course, we expect the assets of the Real Estate Fund to be released, because they are state resources, and that we invest in homes for the elderly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u118	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The next question will be raised by Mr Aleš Gulič, the Minister of Justice. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u119	Mr President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister! The Minister of Justice, Mr Lovro Šturm, has recently presented the content of the new criminal code, which provides, inter alia, for the imposition of a life sentence for crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and the war on crime. We will not talk about this, but let me remind you that on legal days experts have been very upset about this, first of all because they have been secretly prepared - perhaps a little more in Mr Sturm's reply - and also because they see no need for it. I must say that probably even those criminals who prepare for such acts have not complained for 30 years and are not demanding any more punishment. We generally know that these penalties do not work. But it's an interesting spending of taxpayers' money. Despite the fact that the average Slovenian is not big enough for his working life to pay taxes for about half a million euros, and probably this number that you will say is not large, but it is also built on small numbers, of course. So I ask you, Mr. Minister, how much money has been spent on drafting a new penal code? You also received this question in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u120	Thank you for the question, but I'm asking the Minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you also for the question, honourable Member. The Ministry of Justice has allocated EUR 9200 to the head of the section for the preparation of the new criminal code in nominal form, which is now in public debate and also in government coordination, and EUR 9000 to the head of the section. In the group is the only time a regular professor of criminal law teaches this as a regular professor, not as a retired professor, is an extraordinary professor of criminal law with long-term judicial experience and a supreme judge saint. At the moment, very prominent names in the criminal law profession and those who have also shown by their product that they are worthy of this trust. They have drawn up a draft penal code, which is now in public debate, and we are pleased to accept at the Ministry of Justice all proposals, all possible improvements. The deadline is open and we expect useful additions as long as they occur. Let me also say this when you initially started talking about the fact that the law also provides for a life sentence - indeed, it provides for the worst crimes, as you yourself have mentioned: against humanity and under international law. Why would he expect it? Because it is already laid down in the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. And Slovenia has signed and ratified a convention that lists all these crimes and provides for a life sentence for them. Therefore, this is the right question: why do we not follow our neighbouring countries, Italy, Austria, Germany, which in this case have fully defined those conventions, along with 24 other European Union countries, all the way up to Scandinavia. Why don't we do it? Indeed, the criminal justice profession is divided in this respect, but it is not uniform. You mentioned that this was the subject of a lawyer's consultation in Portorož. It did run and opinions were shared, sooner or later, so the issue is now open. If the National Assembly decides otherwise, this is a completely sovereign right of the National Assembly and we at the Ministry of Justice are open in this regard to any solutions, but there must be really legitimate reasons for such or different decision. What are the reasons for, say, joining an international convention with a fig in our pocket - to sign it, to ratify it in the National Assembly, and then we'll say, okay, the vast majority of countries have accepted it and fully implemented it, and we wouldn't really want it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Complementary question will be asked by colleague Aleš Gulič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u123	Mr. Secretary, well, what I said in the introduction about these non-conclusions with you regarding the Penal Code and the Rome Statute, I will not proceed. Well, there's nothing binding on us to take a life sentence, so I don't think that's necessary. But there's something else I want to know about these numbers. However, other numbers have appeared in the media. In addition to this group of yours, a group led by Dr. Alenka Shelih worked on this and prepared amendments to the Penal Code for about two years at the Institute of Criminology. You had something in there too, even one of the members of this group was supposed to be there. And now I really want to know, what are the real numbers? After all, the question is: Why was this not prepared at the Ministry? Why was it necessary to find an external contractor, and how was it sought? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Minister, will you respond? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u125	Thank you very much for this supplementary question. The group you were talking about, led by Dr. Alenka Shelihove, was indeed working on a project worth €16.619, but this group did not do so because it was the task of the group that was preparing the draft penal code. Prof. Shelihove's group has been dealing with problems in the field of substantive criminal law. The group that drafted the draft Penal Code, however, solved these problems by drawing up a nomotechnic text. We have both studies, of course, and they are completely different. One is a complex product of a new criminal code in the form that you will also get before the National Assembly, and the other contains just as many and so many chapters that discuss individual open issues of criminal law, problems that have actually been in the debate in the professional circles for at least 12 years. What were the criteria for the formation of the group I was telling you about? The criteria were purely professional. I said that among the professors who are currently teaching at law schools in the country, a regular professor is the only one, this is Prof. Dr. Mitja Colin, who was a member of this working group, who prepared a new criminal code, the second extraordinary professor Dr. Ivan Bele, and the leader of this group was Dr. Mitja Deisinger, the Supreme Judge of the Council, who combines theory and practice and who is in the process of habilitating for a university associate. So, right now, the only thing I'm going to say is, in terms of expertise, the experts who have proven themselves to be a part of this extremely difficult task. At the Ministry of Justice, we don't have that kind of expertise. We cannot carry out such a project at the Ministry of Justice with the officials we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your answer. The following question will be raised by Dr Pavel Gantar, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u127	It would be good if we had a Minister of the Interior in the Chamber, I don't see him, so I'm in a bit of an awkward position. I don't want to talk in the wall. What am I supposed to do? The minister's not here. I'd like to ask him a question. The question concerns voting by post and is five very precise questions. I must say, my time is running out. The minister's on his way, so I can get started. I hope you'll take that into account. See, regarding the vote by post and the rules set by the State Election Commission - of course, Minister Mate is not responsible - a number of questions have been raised, a dilemma. And with a view to actually eliminating these doubts and thereby raising doubts about legitimacy, I have asked the Minister a few questions in this regard. Firstly, I would like to ask: How many citizens who do not have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia have been entered in the register of electoral rights on the basis of a citizen's request under Article 10(1) of the Electoral Law, Official Gazette 1/2007? The same question: How many citizens who do not have permanent residence have been entered in the register of electoral rights, such as the last national elections, and at least since the adoption of the law by official duty, i.e. on the basis of Article 10, paragraph 9, of the Law on Registration of Election Rights? I would like to know if the Minister can list in the order of order the first five countries in which the most blank ballots have been sent by the title of the electoral rights register, if he knows. It's not entirely in his domain, I admit it. Since messages in the public media have talked about various things and there have been a variety of ambiguities of interpretations, I wonder explicitly: Was there a basis for sending official blank ballots - besides a database of electoral rights records or a domestic electoral directory - any other database? Then I would like to ask: How many persons have acquired the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia under Article 6 and Article 13(2) of the Nationality Act of the Republic of Slovenia since its entry into force [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And the law until October 15th? [[...]] And: Are these citizens officially registered in the register of electoral rights in accordance with Article 10, paragraph 9, of the Law on Registration of Election Rights? For your answer, Minister, of course, I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u128	Thank you very much for the exact questions asked, and I ask the Minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the questions. Very precisely: 9477 nationals of the Republic of Slovenia were entered into the special electoral directory after the Act on the Supplementation of the Registration Act of 2.12.2006 was implemented, and 1,244 Slovenian nationals were entered into the special electoral directory, from the last national elections until 2.12.2006, so 2967 nationals were entered on the basis of the request for a special electoral directory. How many citizens - on the second question, after Article 10, after an official duty, I have answered in part earlier with the numbers. I can repeat them: they were entered on 24.8.2007 73911 Slovenian citizens, of which at least up to the level of the country of residence - says, on several levels, if we look: that there is no country, country, country with the title, country with the full title - a permanent residence of 51003 Slovenian citizens and for sending election cards there was no other record than the question given in the meantime - than the one officially established at the Ministry. Everything has been reviewed, i.e. the Ministry is responsible for the printing of election cards and we have also done so where we can verify the level to which the data are correctly recorded and allowing, of course, accurate transmission. However, the sending of ballots is within the competence of the National Election Commission, which unfortunately I cannot comment on. The countries where the highest number of ballots has been sent can be listed because we know the numbers because we are also responsible for the issue of election cards. The largest number was sent to Croatia, over 10,000 or around 10,000, followed by Germany, Serbia, Canada, Italy, Argentina and Australia. The National Election Commission or the District Electoral Commission, the MNZ and the administrative units, is responsible for sending the votes, as we said, and they are responsible for writing the electoral cards, which we have also done. Regarding the acquisition of citizenship: I can tell you the exact number from 1991 to the end of September 2007 monthly or daily changes, of course, depending on the meetings of the Government and the decisions concerning Articles 13, 6 and 13 on citizenship - we have the number 4755 citizens, even after years, so you can also get, if you want, a review after years of how this has been done. We are also divided by countries, and we can see that the most persons admitted to the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia from Italy, followed by Croatia, the former Serbia and Montenegro, because not all have been divided because of the fact that the countries have recently split up, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Germany, Argentina, Macedonia and so on, the records entered have been electronically maintained since 2004. If you want, we can also give you accurate data by country, after years, so you have the whole review done. On an official basis, the Ministry of the Interior shall enter into the electoral records of each citizen of the Republic of Slovenia as soon as he is admitted to citizenship. Those who are now admitted to citizenship have addresses for them and we can enter complete data. However, for those who were admitted to citizenship before 2002, there are certain problems and, of course, we do not have all the information we need. Maybe just something else about records and electoral records. As you know, electoral law is the right of all full-year citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of their place of residence. We have the electoral lists. In electoral directories where we do not have a country and where we do not know any address in Slovenia - even in Slovenia there are people who do not have any addresses because they have checked out of their permanent residence [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , have no temporary residence, fall into the so-called 'zero directory'; it is said that these data are collected, we know how many persons but are not registered in any constituency, are not in any directory where they could be elected. [[...]] Under number 99, all those who are abroad and where we have the exact address. So briefly about all this data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Dr. Pavel Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u131	Not really. Thank you for your comprehensive response. I would only like to have what you have just said in writing, so far at this level of data processing, as you presented it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u132	Thank you very much. And the minister also replied that he could. We continue with Members on the basis of the list. The next question will be raised by the mag. Janez Drobnič, Minister of Health, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u133	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I will ask the Minister of Health a question regarding the lack of doctors in the Republic of Slovenia. The public is concerned about this lack, not just general doctors, especially specialists, and we have recently learned in the public that we are being abandoned by the only heart surgeon for children, which causes anxiety in those who have medical problems and want to get surgery. This, of course, is the concern of parents of children who do not know how to solve this problem. The following are waiting types due to lack of doctors, confidently. Health service providers say that there are 970 doctors missing in Slovenia, the Medical Chamber talks about more than 500. It is certain that the shortage is great, and even if we were to remove the restriction of entry that has always taken place at the School of Medicine, it would take several years for the situation to normalise; without this, of course, if we decided to import foreign workers, as well as international studies say that this is not the right solution and that we need to provide our own resources if we want to avoid certain problems. Similarly with other medical profiles, nurses, including nurses, there is a shortage of them, and they will be even more lacking in the future, because we have become a society of ageing and will need more and more of these people. Therefore, the exhaustion of these people who provide demanding services also occurs in both a technical and a personal sense. And as we have seen in the harmonisation of the Working Time Directive, Slovenia has had certain concerns precisely to provide uninterrupted health care for all citizens in regulating working time, which, of course, the European Union sets out in relation to the Constitutional Court, that such legislation should be adopted by limiting the time taken by doctors. So, despite the severe shortage of doctors and other personnel, we have a strange solution, a restriction on admission, and this for several years. That's why I'm asking the minister: when are we going to fix this? So, I want an answer: Will the registration limit for both medical and other profiles be lifted during this period, during the preparatory period for entry in spring? And how does he intend to provide personnel in the absence of doctors in this acute phase - if I so express myself medically? And: How to provide the long-term necessary staff, necessary professions, doctors, for the smooth provision of health in the Republic of Slovenia to citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? I want an oral response.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u134	Thank you very much. So, as you yourself have expressed your wish, the National Assembly will do. The next question will be asked by colleague Dusan Kumer, also to the absent Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. I too expect and the Minister will have plenty of time to get an oral answer to the question raised. In recent years, I have raised several questions from Members regarding the spending of budgetary resources, such as daily allowances, nocturnal bills, air transport, abroad, rental and copyright contracts for advice and professional assistance through individual ministries and so on. The responses I received confirmed that it was also a multiple of irrational spending of budgetary resources and that it would be quite possible to save large amounts if, within the Government and the Ministry, they did what their leaders declared and publicly said to citizens and other budgetary consumers. Above all, public money must be spent in accordance with the practice of a good master. However, practice and a number of figures show the opposite. Now that we are in the stage of the budgetary debate, there is once again a lot of talk about saving and reducing the costs of the state administration, reducing the salaries of officials in order to show a responsible attitude towards the budget and tax money, reducing employment, lower costs, for example, mobile telephony and the like. But when we look at the intestines of this talk of saving, we see that it is essentially a blurring of the real picture. On the one hand, we are talking about the reduction of employees and on the other hand we are spending enormous resources on hiring external experts, institutions to provide certain services that the State Administration should carry out on its own. For example, the signing of EUR 2.5 million of external contracts at the Ministry of the Environment in 2006 is little too much. In response, it was promised that the Government, by amending laws and regulations, would remedy certain shortcomings and even anomalies. That's why I'm asking Minister Bayuk: What acts were adopted? In this year's first nine months after each ministry, how much money has been spent on chartering planes abroad? How much was used for regular lines, diaries and hotel services? How many contracts on work or copyright contracts with natural and legal persons were concluded by individual ministries in 2007, in particular in the General Secretariat and in government services for the purposes of advice and professional assistance? And in the end. What is the trend in spending money in these areas over the last three years? I hope that by the next meeting, I have enough time to prepare myself for an exact oral response.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u136	Thank you very much. We both know the minister has plenty of time, but if you get a satisfactory answer, we'll see. The next question will be asked by Ambassador Lovtišar Bebler to the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u137	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of Justice, Dr. Lovro Sturm. In democratic European countries, comprehensive reform of criminal legislation is considered to take place after a substantial period of time, i.e. after 10, 15 or more years of enforcement of specific legislation, on the basis of a serious and in-depth professional analysis of weakness or inadmissibility, including in view of the necessary adjustments to time and the requirements of the social situation. Here we are witnessing, excuse me, a handball that is not based on the findings of a serious analysis either by this first expert group or by any other expert group, which, by the way, if I have summed up correctly, even according to your response to my colleague Gulic, has already cost approximately EUR 66,000 in total. In fact, we have read in the media that the Agency for Research Activities has paid this first expert group, led by Mrs Shelihov, an amount of EUR 16 000, that the Ministry of Justice has also paid this expert group a good amount of EUR 16 000, and now you have said that this group of three, which has already drawn up a nomotechnic proposal for the new criminal code, has cost EUR 27 000. Thus, of course, it is asked as a valid question: How do we deal with these changes, and at what price? Moreover, Minister, you are still clearly misleading the public that these and such changes are absolutely necessary because this is what the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court requires of our country. And that is shocking, unless you referred to something else, because in your previous reply, my colleague Gulic, you once spoke about the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, the second time you spoke about the Convention. Therefore, it is not entirely clear what you really had in mind. If you were referring to the Rome Statute, then let me quote to you the 80th Article of this Statute, which says, "no provision in this part of the Statute", which is the part relating to penalties, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] "is without prejudice to the imposition of penalties prescribed under national law or to the application of their laws which do not provide for the penalties laid down in this Part." [[...]] So what you're saying is not true, and I'm still insisting that this is unheard of. And, in particular, in the National Assembly, Mr Minister, I would expect you, however, as a Member, to be clearer in these answers. So I wonder what kind of public debate is envisaged - you claim that it is already ongoing, but interestingly, the most visible experts in this area say that they have not yet seen this text and that they do not know [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u139	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor, and thank you also for the questions raised by the honourable Member. On 11 October, the draft new penal code was sent not only to inter-departmental coordination, but also to all law schools in the country or, if I am correct, to law schools and also to the courts, namely the Supreme Court, the Supreme Prosecutor's Office and was delivered to all those involved. From then on, they have the opportunity to look at their computer and get to know the news of the criminal code submitted. You told me to argue something that wasn't true. I strongly reject that. The International Convention, for this segment we are talking about, knows the life penalty and how to interpret Article 80 of the Statute, is divided into opinions. Part of the profession says that this country is not legally bound by law, part of the profession says that the country is legally bound by article 80. At this point, I can only find out that we are being held morally by a secure convention. And I wonder why the Convention, and also the Rome Statute to which it refers, would not be respected if it was respected by all our neighbouring countries, if it is respected by the 24 countries of the European Union there, which practically means all of Europe, and I repeat, I do not understand why they should approach this convention with a fig in their pocket. So we sign it, then we don't make it legal. Although it is essentially a matter of a number of novelties proposed by the penal code, of a little importance in other news, and I will also say, of a storm in a glass of water. For the crimes for which the death penalty is provided are indeed the worst punishments, which also concern acts that are rarely committed. But let's put this aside. The debate on the new criminal code has not been a handball, it has been 12 years in this country, for 12 years a series of theorists and practitioners, academics and judges dealing with criminal law have been working on these issues, and they are also ardent about it. All of these are contributions to the reform of criminal law, because we must not forget, when we have adopted ourselves, we have taken over in addition to the former Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia and the Federal Yugoslav Penal Code, we have taken over it into our law and then, in the context of the reform of criminal law in a few years' time, in some ways, we have incorporated it into a penal code that is currently in force, but which in many respects does not comply with the modern concepts of criminal laws that are now in force in Europe. Therefore, the group relied primarily on the findings contained in the German, Austrian and Finnish criminal codes. These are the latest laws that have been in preparation for many years. We've drawn on their experience. I therefore strongly reject the allegations that it was a rapid action. On the contrary, it has been a long and thoughtful collection of knowledge, which has also taken place in Slovenia over the past 12 years, and the work has been carried out by three top-level, leading legal experts in the field of criminal law. The group, as it is said, brings together experts, the theory of academic nature and also those practices. There are certainly no better groups in Slovenia at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Minister, look, you're saying that the Rome Statute was passed with a fig in our pocket. I say that this is not the case, because this 80th article represents exactly the norm that states that States are not bound to prescribe precisely such penalties if they themselves consider that this is not necessary in their domestic legislation. Secondly, you're talking about everyone who's wanted to see this law online has been available since October 11th. And who are we today, Mr. Secretary? Look, you're talking about this text, which contains about 300 to 400 pages. Now you say that this text is already being discussed in depth. I can't agree with that, and I won't agree with that either. See, even when it came to the adoption of a protocol to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights in Strasbourg, and this protocol refers to the abolition of the death penalty, it was clear that some countries still have a death penalty and this protocol has led to the abolition of some, while others have at least adopted a memorandum on the imposition and execution of the death penalty. I therefore wonder why we should follow the example of those countries that are extremely repressive in this area. And in addition, it is not a minor change, Mr Minister, in this text here, for example, if I merely suggest, one of the main things that is changing; the concept of criminal responsibility is changing. And you know what this means for the issue of accountability, guilt and so on. These are serious questions. Among other things, the criminal code is a state's identity card regarding its democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. Therefore, serious analyses and serious discussions on the amendments to this legislation are needed.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Minister, would you like to respond? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, also for this additional question. Let me begin by saying that I must refrain from naming some countries that know the life penalty as repressive countries. Among them are the countries that are in the European Union, 24 are such countries, and these countries, Finland, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Germany, Austria, to name repressive countries, forgive me, of course any Member of the National Assembly may say what he thinks, but as Minister of Justice we must refrain from doing so, from such a position. At the same time, the news brought by the new criminal code is essential. Let me just name a few. Apparently, you're not familiar with them enough. Let's say we're introducing a new crime of mobbing, it's called bullying at work. A new crime, a crime forcing workers who were supposed to make a statement that they would not become pregnant. This is a crime. A new crime committed by a foreign shipman who sails into our sea and drops oil and pollutes the seabed. This has so far not been defined as a criminal offence, and now it will be if you adopt this new criminal code in the National Assembly. A new crime of reckless driving. You know how we deal with the decline in traffic fatalities. There has been no such crime so far. It's being introduced in other countries. I've only listed some of these crimes. Among other things, I should like to draw attention to the crime of selling doctoral dissertation or assisting in the production of doctoral dissertations or master's orders. We have also defined this as a criminal offence because such cases have proved to be the case. We redefine fraud, we redefine a number of, I'll say, modern crimes arising from the operation of modern technology. This code, which, of course, did not come from itself, but was created as a result of the findings of the legal profession, the European legal profession has gathered in the most prominent European countries and which has also been the product of all those professional debates that the Slovenian legal profession has been developing and applying for 12 years, is a modern European comparable criminal code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u145	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Now, however, a few things have been proposed, which in fact do not hold up such a swift hearing, and this minister's response calls for an in-depth debate by the Minister, so, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly hold a special debate on this subject. And let me take advantage of this only in this sense; yes, if we are talking about criminal legislation and if we are talking about a prescribed prison sentence until death, then these countries are repressive in this regard. There's no doubt about that. As in this area, the United States of America, Japan, is also repressive, and some still have the prescribed possibility of imposing the death penalty and the execution of the death penalty. So we can talk a lot about this, and I think we need to talk a lot, and I therefore propose that the National Assembly should hold a debate, a special debate on the Minister's response, even though it has been spent so far, I allow myself to use this term, about EUR 66,000 of taxpayer money, and we don't even know what this money has been spent on and whether it has been spent properly. For the fact is that the analysis of the first section in this development of the new penal code has not been taken into account. This is in an interview with the head of the section, Mrs Shelihove, in Mladina, an authorized interview, you can read and see about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We will vote on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. The next question will be asked by Barbara Žgajner Tavš, or also by the absent Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Well, I'm sorry the Minister isn't here today. Because I would very much like to hear from the Minister the answer to a simple question: Who will be responsible for alleged irregularities in Slovenian health care? From non-compliance with contractual obligations to the disappearance of fabulous sums of money, even to corrupt acts. The list of health ministry irregularities is quite long, significantly longer than I have available time today. Let me mention just a few. Among them, it is worth stressing that some of the healthcare businesses of the SDS have received the principled opinion of the existence of corruption. Oncology Institute - complications with operating tables, Legionella and therefore the installation of microbial filters for an additional EUR 24 000. To silence the public, on 10 May 2007, we get a Supercontrol Commission, which does nothing but review paperwork, without effect, for an additional EUR 46,000! The Court of Auditors finds that the Ministry of Health has subsequently increased the value of the investment by EUR 16.2 million by 84% of the basic value of the contract. Paediatric clinic - a quarter of a million euros gets the so-called SDS miracle boy for tax advice for installation. Interesting! The same amount should have been received by the General Hospital of Slovenj Gradec during this time, but it does not. The SCT, the contractor of the works, receives additional funding of half a million euros to accelerate the construction of a new paediatric clinic, which has been under construction for an unjustified period of more than 10 years. 417 thousand euros gets SCT. Interesting! In the same period, the same amount of money should be given "new medicine". He just doesn't get the money. A freshman to silence the public immediately before leaving will set up a supervisory commission headed by a player named Cavazzo. And when the commission comes to visit the new pediatric clinic, they show her a phenomenally arranged room, which later turns out to be only a sample, respected colleague and colleague. Last but not least, some less than €7 million for a new hospital, a regional hospital in Trbovje – the financial resources that have already been provided in the budget, are also disappearing strangely from the budget. I'm asking, whose pocket? The question I have asked is simple: Who will be responsible for these irregularities that can be listed and for all the other irregularities that exist, existed under the ministry of Bručan and also exist under the Ministry of the New Minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u148	Thank you very much for the question raised, but unfortunately you will not get an answer to it today because the Minister is not present today in the National Assembly. The next question will be posed by the Magi. Majda Potrat, Minister of Public Administration and Minister of the Interior. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u149	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I will be the third to raise a question related to the expressed doubts about the legality of the conduct of the elections of the President of the Republic, which have been taking place in recent years, regarding the voting by post from abroad of those electoral beneficiaries who are Slovenian citizens and who have permanent residence outside the Republic of Slovenia. The new Law on Elections in the National Assembly, which was adopted last July in the National Assembly, provided for the possibility for this category of electoral beneficiaries to vote either at diplomatic and consular offices, as so far as, or by mail, which is new to them, an important right provided for in the first paragraph of Article 82 of the Act. However, it is increasingly clear that neither the proposer nor the legislator, at the time of adoption, has come up with all the questions that have been raised by the implementation of this. First of all, this provision is indisputably contrary to Article 45 of the Law on Registration of Election Rights, which provides that the electoral card shall be issued to the electorate who has previously notified the State Election Commission that he wishes to vote by post. The legal section on the interpretation and implementation of those provisions does not have a single opinion, which further deepens doubts as to the correctness of the electoral procedures carried out. Last November, a new law on registering electoral rights was adopted which, interestingly, did not comply with the electoral law in the National Assembly at such an important point. Secondly, I think it is very important that the minimum conditions for ensuring the legality of voting from abroad are at least that: that we have an up-to-date record of electoral beneficiaries abroad; evidence that an electoral beneficiary in another country has actually received electoral material, for example by service; and compliance with the conditions for voting by post, as defined by the Constitutional Court by its decision in June this year when he is at home in a dispute concerning such voting; [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] filled the legal void of electoral legislation. [[...]] So, Mr. Secretary, I ask you first, Dr. Virant: Are you thinking about harmonising electoral legislation? Can we expect legislative proposals in the National Assembly to eliminate non-conformity and define in more detail how to exercise the right to vote by post so as not to raise doubts about the legality of the conduct of elections? And you, Minister Dragutin Mate: How do you justify a significant increase in the number of electoral beneficiaries who are Slovenian citizens have permanent residence outside the Republic of Slovenia if we compare the data of the national elections from the year [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I'll ask both ministers for an answer. Who's going to be the first to speak? Minister Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u151	Thank you very much. So far, I am not thinking about proposing an amendment to the electoral legislation on voting by mail from abroad. Finally, the National Assembly recently adopted a new law on elections to the National Assembly, with which this was regulated. These procedures have been simplified, that is a fact. First of all, a permanent register of the electoral rights of Slovenian emigrants, i.e. citizens with permanent residence abroad, was established on the basis of the law on the registration of electoral rights. This was the first step towards simplifying the exercise of the electoral rights of these persons and then simplifying the voting method itself. The vote is still held in such a way that every voter abroad receives the recommended, i.e. personal electoral material, a voter's voice card. The election card is in the name of a specific voter. And the voicemail can only be valid if it comes back together with a signed electoral card. According to our assessment, this is enough to ensure that the material has actually come into the hands of the right electorate and that the right voter has also returned it. All that's beyond that, i.e. possible abuses, I don't know, forged signatures and so on, but these are crimes that need to be properly prosecuted. We have examined how this issue has been resolved abroad when we were preparing this law. At this very point, we have looked at the Italian and Austrian arrangements, for example, and our current arrangements are practically identical to the Italian arrangements, and Austria is slightly different. For he knows so-called electoral witnesses, that means that when a citizen signs the electoral card, he has to get another signature from another electoral beneficiary. But I doubt that this ensures a really higher level of safety or certainty when sending this material. But as complicated as we've known him, he doesn't know any country by my conduct. The law, as it is said, was adopted by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority, and you, honourable Member Majda Potrat, were among those who voted in favour of this law and supported this solution. If you feel that it is not the right one, of course you can also propose a change of law, but, as we say, we are not thinking about any change at this time. Otherwise, it would not go further in interpreting these provisions, since it is entirely possible for the State Election Commission to deal with these issues, which is an independent body and also decides independently when interpreting the law. This decision taken by the Commission to send the material to all voters in the electoral register is, in my opinion, merely implementation, the implementation of the adopted electoral law in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u152	Thank you very much. My part of the answer. You are asking how it is possible to increase the number of persons enrolled in the records. Very simple. Before 2002, we did not have this arranged, as it is necessary. With the 2002 law, we came to the ground on which this record began to be kept. As I have already said, two electoral directories have been passed on: one from the 1997 presidential elections and the other from the 2000 national elections. No specific questions, if I recall correctly, were dark at the time. These people were automatically involved in this. In addition, the persons entered this directory after 2002 in two ways: under official responsibility for all newly admitted to the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia and at the request of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who lived abroad. With a novel, which, as has been said, was adopted in this National Assembly with a two-thirds majority on 2 November 2006, you have instructed the Ministry to record, on an official basis, all the information it has at its disposal - very simply stated. Indeed, there is in one article what is written down [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] However, we had to register all people in this directory and from 2.12.2006 12.044 we entered the official records within six months of the further 61,467 citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u153	Thank you very much for the basic answer. But the additional question will be posed by the mag. Spending. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u154	Thank you. Of course, Dr. Virant, it's my fault in any case if I vote yes or if I vote no. However, I do not believe that any law would be adopted if I proposed it, since amendments are not yet proposed, but only by a two-thirds majority. Just a joke on the side. You said it was about simplifying procedures. Of course, it is a matter of simplification and every citizen has the right to exercise this privilege to exercise the right to vote. However, the question is whether simplified procedures also provide sufficient assurance that there have been no errors. And there is a lot of doubt about the regularity of these elections, and I didn't say them first, I'm just transferring them as a Member to the National Assembly. Nor will I speculate on how much less electoral participation is due to the vagaries of these doubts. But what I want to ask you is an extra question. You said you were following other comparable systems. Yes, we can imitate those who have stronger, greater assurances or those who are very relaxed. And it looks like we've been very relaxed about this. The secretary of the State Election Commission also said that some things were carried out differently, now only by signature. And if you don't have what you said, election witnesses, in fact, the family can sign one on behalf of whole or more settlers. There's a possibility, just by signing how to do it, quite a bit. Let's just say I'm well-intentioned and I don't believe everyone's gonna cheat. I don't know how you're gonna sort things out and check it out. What I wanted you to do, [[End warning sign]] Minister Mate, ask as an additional question. Of course, it is an official duty to register, but what remains is that we have already asked you about some of the difficult ones in the National Assembly. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I ask the government representative to answer the supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u156	Thank you. Look, I really didn't want to be cynical or anything, or blame you for the text of the law as it was passed. I just wanted to say that we're talking about the law that was passed by a two-thirds majority in this National Assembly, including your vote. Which means that if there was anything disturbing about this marriage, we could have been alerted to that. I think that there is nothing wrong with this law and that this regime of voting is okay is simplified. But to this simplification we tend to weigh in all areas: you call it relaxation, I call it simplification of procedures. We have also simplified for Slovenian citizens who live in Slovenia. In fact, there is a possibility that you may vote outside your place of residence as soon as possible. If you say that first, you can vote in Maribor on the seat of the District Electoral Commission, for example, even though you have a permanent residence in Ljubljana or Ljubljana, even though you have a permanent residence in Maribor. These are simplifications. I have no doubt about the regularity of these elections. Those who have had doubts will have to explain the problem a little better. Why, for example, such a way of voting or exercising electoral rights is not problematic in Italy, or in what, for example, is an electoral witness who co-signs an electoral card with an electorate, a greater guarantee than what we have now. However, I agree with you that it is always possible here to weigh between simplicity and greater guarantees. That's why I didn't want to be cynical when I said you could propose such a solution, because it's likely that the debate will start in any way before the next national elections. And I believe that it will be triggered by someone making a legal proposal; perhaps it will be Mrs Potrata, perhaps it will be your parliamentary group or anyone. Really, I didn't mean to be cynical.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Minister Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u158	The last part of the question wasn't heard, so I don't know what to answer. However, I can say that the State Election Commission is a single body that takes its decisions, and I, as a minister, have no influence on them. It is my duty and my officials that when a decision is made, we shall carry out the part of the work that is within our jurisdiction. In this particular case, it was the printing of electoral cards and then the delivery of these cartons to the electoral commission which sent them to the titles. Of course, we can print only those addresses that are complete and that have the opportunity to reach the final user. However, this is true for the first time since the law was adopted last year. So this was the first time for the State Election Commission, because otherwise it can't be.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u159	Thank you very much for both your answers. It's just a matter of procedure. Spending. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u160	I would gradually suggest that the National Assembly should hold a debate on the answers of the two ministers, without being overly optimistic and believing that the coalition majority will support this proposal, but still this is one of the steps I would like to point out that this is my contribution to regulating legal issues. The National Election Commission is an independent body, but it can point out weaknesses in the implementation, as this is the first time that elections are conducted under the new legislation. I also did not exclude this in the introduction to my question by being in addition to changing legislation. This does not mean that I could not recognize bad solutions and strive to eliminate them. There are simplifications, I say nothing, but signing the electoral directory for us who are voting here in Slovenia is certainly not a simplification. It was kind of protective, or I don't know what else to call it. But that's certainly not a simplification, because, for the first time ever, when it was necessary to sign, a lot of people didn't want to do that. Now I don't have the data or it's been signed or not. So it opens with electoral legislation a series of questions, a series of questions that I think would be good for us to discuss now that we have done our first experience, because we are also open to proposals for electronic elections because a lot of things are opening up. Why should we not discuss this in peace without instigating, without having to vote on what proposal, even though it is merely a prestigious nature? I think it would be most useful if we did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u161	Thank you, too, for your constructive proposal. We will vote on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. Thank you very much. I had previously made a mistake and overlooked the procedural proposal of the SNS Group. Before I give you my word, just tell me, it is only your wish to receive an oral answer to your question about the answer of the Minister who is not. Then it's in the record and you'll get an oral response. However, we continue with the list or on the basis of the list of Members declared. The next one will raise the question of the Magi. Borut Saiovic, Minister of the Interior and Minister of Transport, who is absent. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr President, distinguished Minister and Ministers. My question concerns traffic safety. Traffic accidents are undoubtedly a major public problem around the world. Statistics show that we are 30 times more at risk in traffic than in jobs. Such a problem poses a great deal, on the one hand, a social threat and on the other hand a health threat. If we look today at what the Slovenian Press Agency says about traffic accidents: Two lives were taken last week, 155 traffic accidents occurred on Slovenian roads last week, 204 people were injured, 246 people died on roads this year and 202 in the same period. These are messages from the General Police Administration and, as reasons, the most common factors in traffic accidents indicate the irregular side or direction of driving, the incorrect overtaking and non-compliance with the rules of advantage. Dear Minister, now the trend of fatal traffic accidents is undoubtedly growing uncontrolledly, so I politely ask you: Which preventive, we know what is preventable, as well as the curative measures carried out by your ministry and police in 2007 to prevent or reduce traffic accidents? However, as regards the work on the matter relating to the Ministry of Transport, please provide me with a written answer to the question within the time limit foreseen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u163	Thank you very much, and so do you. And I'm asking Minister Matthew for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you for asking. I would first touch upon the conclusion of your question. I cannot agree with the argument that the trend of traffic accidents and fatalities on our roads is growing uncontrolledly. If we look at the multi-annual trends in the number of dead - of course, every life is a shame to put out on the road - we can find that we have an increase in deaths on Slovenian roads this year and we can also partially explain why this happened. In particular, due to the very mild winter and the very large, enormous number of deaths among motorists at the beginning of this year, where we did not have a single fatality compared to last year, it is said from January to early April that we had a season and the driving conditions are still significantly different, including tyres and other parts of one-way vehicles behaved completely differently, so there were several more fatalities during that period. And then this statistics are drawn to us from month to month. If I focus on that part of the response you've given me, what the Ministry has done preventively and what's curative in the field of transport safety. I can say that each year the ministry has prepared a specific traffic control plan for each year, as has been the case for 2007. So at the end of last year, such a plan was made. Foundations and guidelines for work have been set up. The main causes of the accident in the past year and then the objectives we want to achieve have been detected. In particular, the police's work this year focused on the problem of speed, driving under the influence of alcohol, the use of safety belts, the problem of multiple offenders, which is increasingly common in Slovenia. And in these basic areas, 65% of both preventive and repressive measures have been implemented. I can say that in this year the police have carried out many actions, from primary schools to secondary schools to special awareness of drivers of single-wheeled vehicles, how to behave, what dangers are caused by speedy driving, braking on wet roads and so on. Throughout Slovenia this happened together with the Ministry of Transport, along with the Auto moto connection, with the Association of Automoto Associations, etc. This was a series of activities that could be described for a very long time as what was done preventively. After months, plans have been made and are also being implemented, but it must be said that the Slovenian police have found more than 300,000 violations this year in these fundamental areas, if I say so, of the guidelines we have started, as well as in other areas. Often, there was a great deal of dissatisfaction with our actions, where we were chain-checking certain violations. We also anticipate that we have set up this year, and I can say this in part for the Ministry of Transport, because we have done this together to establish a stationary radar network on the Slovenian motorway cross. In those days, literally in those days, an attempt is being made to test the first system of implementation of the section-by-section measurements. In one section, a car will be recorded how quickly it brought this distance. And if this distance is transported faster than the limit on this section, there will be penalties, so that on highways it will be even more acute than it is now. In the following year, we will try to continue to operate on the core and most serious violations that we have detected this year, multiple offenders, speed, speed, one-way vehicles, say engines. However, I can also say that the police began to work more actively on highways in the second half of the year, and there are more and more white-blue vehicles on motorways as well. They were not seen so much before, they were just a provision and I must say that we expect to start operating in a month also with new tactics on Slovenian highways or on the highway. We will gain a larger number of powerful white-blue vehicles that will also be able to stop vehicles that drive 250 kilometres per hour and will have built-in Providence systems. So far, we had a problem if a white blue light vehicle stopped a vehicle, it was difficult to prove if a person complained that the vehicle was speeding 180 [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u165	Minister, thank you very much for your answer. Complementary question, Comrade Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answers. I can see that the ministry is trying, but there are no results so far, which is not just up to the Minister and the Ministry, but a lot of us drivers. The national road safety programme for the period 2007-2011 shall bear the title Total for greater safety. Safe road transport is undoubtedly the responsibility of the State and several measures have been written in this programme. The main considerations of this programme are: raising transport safety culture to a comparable level with countries with developed security culture, linking the state level to self-government local communities and civil society, as much as possible to increase the existing resources at our disposal, to improve the usability and safety of the road environment - from planning to performance to maintenance and control, to education and preventive and repressive measures to change poor transport behaviour. At the same time, I ask you: Do you seriously believe that these reviews will be achieved only by increasing the financial penalties for traffic offences? As you know, the fines for traffic offences have increased with the amendment of the Road Safety Act from 1.1.2005 and is undoubtedly acknowledged by experts and police officers that the impact of these fines has fallen to date and the number of deaths has, unfortunately, increased. It would therefore be interesting to know how much fines were made and how high they were in 2007. And if we make a comparison to make it easier for us to consider the law: What does this mean for 2006 and 2005? It also seems to me that high fines, which I do not support, have only a momentary effect, and later solutions should be sought for the benefit of all of us, especially in other areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond further. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to finish where I stayed. The problems that we had with proof, at least I think you want to know this part, were precisely that it was not possible to prove on the higher pieces, as was the actual speed, so these vehicles, which seem to be on the outside, would be no different or very little different from the vehicles used by the police as white blue light-powered vehicles, equipped with all available technology, so that we will intensively use these vehicles on all motorway sections across the cross and thereby carry out both preventive and, where necessary, repressive measures. Unfortunately, I can't provide you with all the information you've just asked here at the end, if I have all the data at this point on the number of fines and so on. We will prepare this data and I think it will be extremely interesting to see in comparisons what effects they have had. However, I absolutely agree with you that only monetary penalties do not constitute greater security. Much more needs to be done to ensure greater safety on Slovenian roads. It is not only the prevention carried out by the police and the repression carried out by the police in this area that much more needs to be done in the field of education, education, much more can be done with projects that some have already implemented and some will still be, according to the Young Driver project, Safe Driving projects, in the auto-schools, it is necessary to give some emphasis to certain content that would accelerate all of this and with changes in the law that are being prepared or are in the final phase, we are thinking in two ways, if I say so. One direction is the short-term effects which should be as effective as possible, where there is also an increase in the penalty or the possibility, not only the height of the penalty, but also the threats that this penalty will be imposed and that someone will be trapped in what they cannot do on the road. At the same time, we will start this year with a complete recast of the law, where we will make the conceptual law completely different and try to achieve long-term effects. However, the issue of transport security is not only a matter of the Minister of the Interior and the police, but it is touching, as you yourself have mentioned, a large number of resources. I hope, and somehow I am also sure that these departments will take seriously all these tasks ahead of them, and that we will, with the common powers and with the abundant good will and good example of ourselves, if I say so, contribute to greater security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u170	The problem is, of course, extensive and important. Therefore, I would like the questions that have been wronged in the replies of the distinguished Minister, in accordance with Article 246, second paragraph, to be discussed by the Minister at the end of the day and before the vote, and to discuss all these open issues several times, because that is the only way to bring the skins under the public eye. I know a young boy who's doing a driver's test right now. There's a theory, I think, nine forms of different tests. And these tests are easily taught, ladies, gentlemen, boys and girls, but they do not have the knowledge that they could then, of course, use in daily traffic integration. It seems to me, of course, that we can do more in the performance of road traffic regulations, in education, but then we may also have fewer fields or less need for curative action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u171	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Sajovica, that the National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior to his question, will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Milan Petek will raise the question to the Minister for Education and Sport. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u172	Thank you, Vice President. Apparently, there's an LDS block of questions, and you're backing out. Nice greetings to the ministers and both ministers! The question therefore lies with Mr Beast, the competent Minister for Education and Education. Mr Minister, in Parliament, especially with regard to the current developments in the Law on Financing for Education and Education, you have repeatedly stressed that you are increasing the share of funding from 85% to 100% for private schools and schools also because you believe that private people will make it easier and significantly contribute to enriching the network of kindergartens and schools when they themselves take care of investments in these buildings. This seemed logical to me, but it did not satisfy me, because I do not think it is appropriate for the National Assembly or the State or the municipalities to fund some programmes, so that this should be at a different level, as it was before the legislative changes. I cannot imagine how, if we were to transfer this to some other areas, how would the state and the municipalities actually manage to finance from personal interests. But that's the way it is. Therefore, the situation is also such that you speak and not only speak, also rationalising public education that affects the number of employees, interferes with resources and so on. In our opinion and in my opinion, do not worry at the same time about budgeting, which would be logical to ensure the same quality of implementation of this activity. My question was: Are you still insisting, or do you think that your claims are that private sector investment will be in buildings, in educational facilities that would replace this 100% funding? Are these your claims still valid and are behind them?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u174	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, Members and Members of Parliament, colleague. Thank you for asking. There is no reason for me to change my position, which I have also mentioned in public several times. Last but not least, this position was shared with me by your party in the first half of the 1990s, which introduced a hundred percent funding for private schools. At the time, Dr. Gaber was Minister, and I do not recall anyone from the present opposition objecting to such a solution. The question is also not entirely correct because it is not about financing kindergartens, but about basic education. So to the point of the question or the heart of the question, I have to answer this: In fact, the individuals entering the educational space are bringing with them a space. This means a lot of investment, as well as equipment, basic equipment. This, of course, means not only walls, windows and spaces, surfaces, but also cabinets, chairs, tables and the like in addition to all installations. For all the other additional equipment, and for learning and learning aids, private institutions can be entitled to this even after the old legislation and, of course, even after the new one, only to try to change the system with the ZOFVI, that is to say that we are introducing the rules proposed by the Minister, and then all these additional equipment, learning and learning aids will be shared much more transparently than they have been so far. For sure, private space or a private education initiative is rich, it introduces a lot of capital. These financial resources can be saved by the State and invested in some other matter in the field of education. Therefore, it does not claim that private education will develop at the expense of public education. This is a first-class non-truth, an unproven claim, you could say a lie that has a lot of room now in this ideological cultural battle over the question of private education, which was solved in the 1990s, in the first half of the 1990s, or in the middle, when the White Paper was also created, when the new legislation on the organisation and financing of education was also established. It was then that your client colleagues assured or formulated the concept of privacy in the school system and we do not change it in anything, we do not change it in anything, we only solve a matter, this is the duality of the system, because some schools are financed 100%, some 85%, now we will unify it all, like your original proposal, to 100%, because it is unfair to those who are financed 85% for the same thing. This is a type of discrimination, and children are mainly discriminated against here because they are financed by their programme only 85%. And I am very interested in how you will explain this form of discrimination to the Slovenian and European public if there is indeed a referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Friday, do you have a supplementary question?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u176	I do. At the principle level, I was not actually surprised by the answer, but I will go with my question to that operational level, where things go away from what you said. I am asking about one situation that arose in Medvod. You probably knew that with some questioning, I'd be more specific. You are probably aware that in Medvod, in all possible ways, financing the activities of kindergarten is budgeted, I am talking about kindergarten, not school, first of all with an amendment that has brought EUR 37,556 into the municipal budget. When it was found that this would probably not work, under the cover of a subsidy for the implementation or construction of a pastoral home, this was reclassified to EUR 35,000 for a construction subsidy to be covered by the rental of this activity. And your fellow SDS councillors have been very cooperative about this. One of them is also a Member. Why do you have to be asked this by a Styrian MP? Because our LDS councillors in the Medvoskie Municipal Council are asking us what to do and what the Minister's position should be. And that's the purpose of my question. Why do you think it is appropriate to reclassify your explanation in kindergartens in a different form? And there you can finance and there you have a legal basis. It is of particular concern that this Chamber should apply to activities that are not directly contrary to Christian principles and values. And the mayor said they found the legal bases and checked with the Ministry that they had the basis for the wire transfer. So I'm asking: Do you agree with the conduct of the councillors of the SDS on the municipal council? Have these legal bases and the basis for the remittances been sought by your ministry? If they were looking for your ministry, what kind of [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Did you give them instructions and instructions in this way?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u178	I did not understand this additional question exactly what was the case in Medveda. If I understood correctly, the congregation was to be financed by a public kindergarten, a Catholic public kindergarten. Look, I told you the answer to a question you sent me in writing. For this particular example, I can ask myself what it is like, even though in your own words I do not have some interference with Medvode - over their congregation and the mayor and the municipal council. But it's a matter of interest to me. However, the Ministry of Education has certainly not been involved in this story. I'm sure it didn't work out. However, it is possible that, for example, the founder will grant concessions if no public network is provided in some environment and someone is performing a service. Maybe there's some kind of practicality to these things. In principle, I do not support such procedures, as was the case in this case, but you can understand me that as a minister, I have no authority over the conduct of the municipal authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr Mitja Slavinec will ask the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u180	Dear Madam Secretary! In view of your predictions that you will continue the current policy of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology of your predecessor, I would like to ask: What is your position, what is your position, what is the position of the Ministry up to two important guidelines so far: the decentralisation of higher education and the promotion of science and technology? In this regard, Madam Minister, I would like to ask: Will you give priority to measures that will ensure more adequate funding for certain natural science programmes, especially those implemented by some faculties as dislocated programmes, than dislocated performances outside university centres? If and what encouragement do you anticipate for such colleges? And another issue, which is also an initiative. I refer to the question already raised months ago, which concerns the regulation governing the financing and classification of various study programmes and the initial deadline for the harmonisation of this Regulation, which is supposed to apply with the start of this school year, is unfortunately delayed and therefore many colleges are in existential difficulties. As an example of the first dislocated department, we can certainly refer to the Faculty of Agriculture of the University of Maribor, which implements the only higher education programme in Pomurje and does not have the permanent resources provided for those additional costs arising from the dislocated implementation. This is a very, very important programme and I stress once again the only higher education programme implemented in Pomurje. The second is certainly the Faculty of Science and Mathematics, where due to the specificity of the creation of this university and the programmes themselves, it is now in practice considered that this programme is financed by half less than comparable programmes such as the University of Ljubljana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you very much, Member, for your question. Nice greetings to the Members and Members of Parliament, to the colleagues of the Minister and to the Minister! All those who somehow follow the higher education space in Slovenia can agree that we are witnessing changes in the higher education area not only in our country, not only in Slovenia, but also in Europe and even wider. And in general, we can figure out that some of these processes started a while ago, and we're in the middle of something. Not only in the last year or in the last three years, there has been a tendency to decentralise higher education, at least after a certain decentralisation of higher education. Above all, there was a tendency to approach the study and also a place of residence for interested students. As a result, if we look at students or students and their parents from the point of view, it can also mean to a certain extent an appreciation of the costs incurred in the study. On the other hand, for a given area, this can mean a positive impulse and, above all, that qualified staff and knowledge do not go elsewhere, but are kept at home by individual regions. Therefore, we can certainly agree that these new higher education centres, as far as decentralisation is concerned, are encouraging. Above all, this is where the process goes in a positive direction, where interest or local communities, i.e. municipalities or local economies, has already shown themselves at the primary stage to develop an individual programme. It must have been, as you mentioned, one of the cases in your field. Before visiting Koroška, the High School for polymer technology, where they are also the only ones with their program. And it turned out to attract students not only from those regions, but wider, from the fields of all Slovenia. These two initiatives on the part of the economy and the local community are often able to bring together experts, teaching experts, who are also very important for the implementation of these programmes, which are foreseen at such schools. With regard to the promotion of young people, it is also safe for natural and technical professions, this programme has been very positive and should be continued. Not only is it because students make more decisions about such study programmes, but because it is still evident from the employment market that demand for such professions is a demand. When I also visited the University of Maribor last week, we also discussed this subject with the dean of the Faculty of Construction, and there is still three times more interest in the entry than in the cities. And we also plan at the Ministry, I hope that we will also successfully continue this action with both fellow ministers, both the Minister for Education and Sport and the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, to give students at these last stages of secondary school all information about their quality decision. I am convinced that it is of utmost importance to inform the individual of the relevant information, not only about the study programme, about the scholarships, but also about its employment opportunities. However, I would certainly agree with you that certain steps should be taken forward in terms of funding. You have rightly concluded that it will be necessary to amend the Regulation on the financing of higher education institutions. This shall also expire in the second year, but shall continue to apply for the second year. Even when I visited the University of Maribor and had conversations with both the rectors and the dean of the aforementioned colleges, I made sure that these changes were necessary. Within the Ministry, the working group has already been set up, and there are representatives of universities and I think we will have to work together to make a change of content sometime early in the spring of next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Slavinac, would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u184	Thank you very much. If I start now at the conclusion of your answer. Does this mean that, already this academic year, if there is a change in the regulation in the spring, it will also enter into force immediately and will be funding for the remaining part already under the new regulation. Does this mean that no changes are expected before the next study year? That's the first question. Secondly, it is more in terms of initiative. I'm certainly pleased with your support for the science and technology guidelines. I am also pleased with the awareness of the need for the market, but at this point I appeal that this support not only be of a declaratory nature, but also of a specific, financial nature, in terms of the speedy realization, for example, of the above-mentioned funding regulation, but also of course that the Ministry must be aware that the nature and technical study orientations, the education of these policies, are not profitable. And we cannot expect the economy or individuals to establish science and technology colleges, much less in environments that are already economically less developed. It is also not right that, now that a public network of higher education and university programmes has been established in existing university centres, then the environment that remains, as I have said, is being built by the economically less developed environment, the network is being built up with its own resources, for I continue to argue that this is public education provision and also the provision of the decentralisation of public education in the first place and in the first place the matter of the state, that is, the ministry. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] This is why I appeal that most of the funds are devoted to promoting science and technology in the financial field, but not, let's just say that private school concessions were distributed only to social workers. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u186	Thank you, too, for this additional question. It is certainly one thing that the Financing Regulation is still in force for the second year. As I have already said, we are aware at the Ministry that this Regulation needs to be amended as soon as possible, taking into account the analysis of the current regulation and its effects, and in particular to add some new indicators that should be included in the evaluation of individual programmes. Not only are science and technology programmes challenging the content of the programme itself, but sometimes there may be a slightly worse response of students to enroll in such programmes. Here, all of us at the Ministry are also aware of the fact that the cost of infrastructure itself is much higher if I expose individual laboratories here, compared to social programmes. And it is noted that there was something confused here also in Slovenia. To impress young people with such professions, we must also provide them with this attractive infrastructure, which is still important in this basic phase of the decision. Not only were we already aware of this problem at the Ministry, but you know that there were also two calls for development tasks because each segment of the programmes fell under the existing regulation. I must express my satisfaction that at this first invitation to tender, which has already been completed, certain additional funds have also been distributed to individual universities and, as a result, to individual universities, but above all, there is now a second tender in the final phase, and this will certainly be a positive impulse for universities as well. However, I must say that I am pleased that the University of Maribor has also bridged this issue in some way. This is not just a matter of science and technology. This is also a matter of some other health professions. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] spheres, as well as such programmes, are experiencing a slightly higher cost than they are due to more practical work and so on. [[...]] We are aware of this problem at the Ministry and will also try to solve it in the context of the preparation of the new regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Happy Friend will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Madam President, colleagues and colleagues, the little number that you insist on, respect for everyone who is here this hour. So the honourable Minister, Prime Minister Janez Janša's words here today have been said here in this room, were, 10% of citizens and citizens living at the edge of poverty, according to sustainability. Your words in public have recently been said, 42% of poverty would be if there were no social transfers. The union alerts are clear. Protests are announced on 17 November and four requirements in writing, i.e. an increase of 3.5% this year, alignment of wages with this year's inflation already in February 2008 and not only in August 2008 as you predict, and of course an increase in wages due to increased productivity, a fully justified requirement and changes in the payment system. Take note of the fact that you despise all these demands, including the initiatives of Members addressed to the President of the National Assembly and to the President of the Government and to the President of the State. On 12 September, I addressed the President of the National Assembly and the President of the Government with the initiative to discuss this pressing matter. We are the social state enshrined in Article 2 of the Constitution. Every hungry person has the right to be fed up, but I didn't get any answers. On 19 October, I addressed this same initiative to the President of the State, who has the right to convene an extraordinary meeting. I don't think he's gonna respond either. The government is talking about large economic growth and that the budget deficit has reduced by one percent, from one percent to 0.4%. What do you mean, I'm asking you? By selling state silver, such as Luka Koper, such as Intereuropa, such as Slovenian Railways, such as Slovenian Shipowner General Navigation. This is how I can do it myself, but I'm not really called on to show the success of the government in this way. You don't want to share the profits with the people who created them with the workers. Dear Minister, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I ask you, you are also responsible for this situation in the country: What programs do you have, how will you deal with this problem? [[...]] Do you even know that there are a large number of people who are hungry who don't have to survive naked? On the other hand, we're earmarking for gypsy daily security, which is in the millions of dollars, I'm talking in euros, a monthly account, we're spending a lot of money on [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] equipping the military and, of course, spending a lot of money also to make the government more comfortable sitting on its chairs. [[...]] Last but not least, we are witnessing that the European Union will also require considerable costs. What's that? [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The priority of our ministry is to ensure that social assistance is provided to those who need it and to combat social exclusion. In Slovenia we use the so-called relative concept to set the threshold of poverty and calculate the rates of poverty. The poverty threshold is determined on the basis of income distribution, so the calculated rate of poverty does not measure absolute poverty, but rather poverty measures inequality within the study of the population. This concept shows how many people have significantly lower income relative to the average value of income in the country. Thus, we find out which groups of people are in a relatively poor situation in relation to all households and are also more vulnerable to poverty. After this concept, poor people live in households whose income per equivalent member is less than 60% [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the income available. [[..]] However, we express relative poverty with a degree of risk poverty. The level of risk poverty in 2004 since we have Eurostat data for 2004 means that 12.1% of people in Slovenia lived below the poverty risk threshold. This amounted to EUR 5278 per year in 2004, the monthly income available to these persons in 2004 was lower than EUR 440. The four-member family, two adults and two children, should have at least EUR 924 per month available in 2004 in order to rise above the threshold of risk poverty. In addition to monetary income, taking into account income in nature, the risk of poverty rate for 2004 would be 11.4% and the monthly threshold of poverty risk would be higher by 20 euros. If income did not include family and social benefits, the level of risk poverty in Slovenia would be higher, namely 25%. This shows that social transfers have a beneficial impact on reducing the risk of poverty. A comparison of the risks of poverty among EU Member States shows that only three countries had a lower proportion of the poor than Slovenia, namely the Netherlands, the Czech Republic and Sweden, and as well as Slovenia had Austria, Denmark and Finland. The average for 25 EU Member States was 16%. In your parliamentary question, you state that poverty is increasing in Slovenia. Given the labour market movement, where employment is rising and unemployment is declining, it is one of the lowest unemployment rates and reached 7.65 in August, which means that it has decreased by 1.1% since the beginning of the year. The same is true of the strong decline in the trend of monetary social assistance, and from January 2007 to September their number decreased by 16.95 and nominally from 52 thousand 463 to 43 thousand 811. This is also reflected by the favourable economic movement where monetary social assistance has been declining. Despite these favourable trends, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is implementing a number of measures to improve the standard of the materially weaker. In 2007, the tax system was changed to benefit the materially weaker. The effects of reduced rates of income and increased general relief mean a real higher net salary for all taxpayers and thus greater motivation for work and higher living standards. With amendments to the Income Act, notably the higher overall relief and reduced progressive income scales, the average real salary increased by 6.5% from 2004 to 2007. On average, the income decreased by 26.8%. The alignment of transfers with the new law is based on inflation, which means that social transfers in January 2008 will increase by total inflation in 2007. The following year new laws on [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u192	Please, Your Honor! Don't give us statistics, because we know that statistics are a collection of accurate lies. We know you, too. You have reduced unemployment by simply deleting those who are inactive job seekers for you from the list of unemployed. One time he didn't come forward, and he was erased, disabled, etc. Thus, reducing unemployment is a well - known story. To talk about further information that we have. 60% of employees do not reach minimum wage. In most cases, employment is regulated so that people who do not have a perspective in the future do not get credit, do not have purchasing power with it, and poverty is getting worse. You're also lowering the actual poverty threshold with false data. Dear Minister, let me tell you, the government party DeSUS has added to the misery of life by proposing the withdrawal of the Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers in Households. You know that, and you didn't do anything about it. The law provided for a once-a-year correction of price differences two years ago. And it is those who are most at risk who are now affected by this marriage. To continue, the profits that workers make, you don't want to share among those who created it. Why? I'll be the first in a crowd to protest. Good thing it's less than 350 days before the election. It's a good thing, it's a sacramental good, because there's going to be a change. And I ask you, where are your programs? We're a social state. Article 2 states that we are a social state, Article 2 of the Constitution. Hungry has the right to be fed. Why do you not allow the majority of those who work to do so to work honestly for more than eight hours, but they do not deserve to survive nakedly? That's what I asked you, not from the statistics you collected before, and the old data from 2004. I didn't ask you that, either. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u194	Our rule in the Ministry and also the government's objective is to provide as little financial social assistance as possible. However, social exclusion, as I have already mentioned, can only be ensured with greater employability. And whether your claims are true or not, the number of employers requiring new jobs is higher from day to day, so much so that even on Wednesday we will decide on new work permits for foreigners, because we simply do not have enough of our own. Now we have 24 000 new work permits. This year it increased by 18,000 because we've already exceeded that sum in May, we've increased it by 6,000, and now there's 4 thousand needs. All of this shows that our employment is growing and that economic growth is also increasing. With regard to programmes, we will always fight, both through active employment policies and through legislation, to enable the number of employees in our country and our citizens. With this, we have already established specific subsidies in the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act if we exempt employers from one year of payment of all benefits if they hire someone who is long-term unemployed and receives financial social assistance. It is also for young people up to the age of 26 who have long been registered at the Employment Institute, as well as for women who are on maternity leave replaced by others. The Ministry is also implementing the long-term recipients' employment subsidy, as I mentioned. There were 500 such jobs this year. In 2007 and 2008, €6.5 million was added to the upgrading of the housing loan subsidy system. However, the preparation of rules on the participation of employees in profits is ongoing and the Ministry of Economy is preparing a law on the procedure in December. All of these are numbers or facts that show that this government or various ministries does not care what is happening because we will still fight poverty and social exclusion. As with Europe and the Lisbon strategy, we advocate and also realize in our regulations and in our actions, in particular, the objectives of employment, that we should give priority to economic development, employment and social dimension.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister! You said yourself, your goal is to get as little social assistance as possible. Shameful, really. Economic growth is growing because you're selling state silver. For billions of euros you will get to the state treasury by selling Luke Koper, with Inter-Europe, from the sale of railways, you have already sold the General Sailing and boast that there will be no 1% deficit in the budget, that there will be 0.4%. These are the words of the Government in the 2007 budget, 2008. Please, you haven't listed any goals that could save those who have the right to work. It's also a constitutional right. Young population. The young population is the one who wants to provide its financial resources with its own work and thus independence. These work permits that you give to foreigners will, of course, be given to enable the rich to become even richer. You will bring Czechs, Slovaks and Hungarians, perhaps someone else who will agree to work for 300 euros. I believe that this is exploitation and that we must cross that normal path of human exploitation, they taught us. Maybe we are there in the beginning, and we have to go this way. But you, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, have no time to play with the fates of many, you are not given this right to play with the fates of many. The fact is, there are more and more hungry Slovenians. That's what I was asking you. Where are your social transfers? Not to be compared with other European countries with significantly greater purchasing power. This is not comparable, it is simply not comparable. And also the 2004 data, go online and you'll see, the data on poverty is only available for 2004. Why aren't they for 2005? 2006? 2007? That's what I'm asking you. There's nothing you can do. For this reason, I request that a debate be held in this National Assembly. I have previously called on the President of the State, the last President of the Government to remain silent and the President of the National Assembly. Before that, our Vice-President of the National Assembly and the Vice-President of Saša Peca demanded this. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to the College. [[...]] Also rejected, smooth. I ask you: Where is your conscience if you are a social government? I therefore propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that a broader debate be held in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u197	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Srečk Friends to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. We are moving on to the second round of questions sent. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter. It will raise the question of the Minister for Education and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u198	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, once again for a nice welcome to ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In the shadow of the discussions on the reform measures of the Ministry of Education in the school field, there remain some issues that are essential for the development of human resources, as is said to be modern. These human resources have faces, hands and legs and are our future. So I am interested in some important things about the issues that are being raised, as I say, on the brink of big topics. We place the individual's responsibility for health at the centre of education and it is therefore right for the Ministry of Education and Sport to take on part of the responsibility for these issues, which are reflected in the care for healthy and affordable nutrition and in the care of adequate physical activity. Both of these issues have led to changes in legislation, unfortunately, I repeat, at the margins. We note that our children and adolescents have poor eating habits, we note that they are physically inactive, at the same time we find that the amounts in the budget are decreasing, we find that the number of hours of physical education is decreasing. From all this we should mention from the context that we have read data on how school food contributions for inflation and incentives increased between 5% and 13%. This certainly means that the school diet in the part that parents must cover will certainly be irritated. And since I believe that at least at primary school level, the Government is obliged to take care of improving the food supply, Minister Zver asks you: How does a rule on at least one meal per day apply in primary schools? How many elementary schools do students have the opportunity to have lunch, and how much of this opportunity can they take advantage of? What are the latest data on organised school meals in secondary schools? What concrete measures does the Ministry of Education and Sport take to ensure quality, healthy and affordable nutrition? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u200	Thank you very much for the question, for the clear question. I hope I can give you a clear enough answer. But since the questions are very complex, if you please, I would also provide you with a written answer. We have very precise answers to the questions you have asked. Otherwise, I can certainly say that the basic marriage obligation that the country has for primary schoolchildren is 98% of children, virtually everyone is involved in a meal called a hot school meal. Of this, we offer three more meals in the elementary school room, breakfast, lunch and afternoon meals. Almost half of all students received lunch lunches in the afternoon, 19% and breakfasts in the afternoon, which is 10%. We can say that the supply in the primary school area by the country is excellent, including hygiene standards and other food preparation and distribution standards are extremely high because we are covered by the HACCAP system, the HACCAP regime provides the highest standards possible. And here we are comparable to the most developed countries. Not all countries have such a state regulated activity; for example, Germany does not have what Slovenia has. In addition, Slovenia finances a number of pupils, including the food organiser and the chef, which is not included in the cost of eating. At the same time, further subsidisation of this type of diet is under way. In the area of primary school, 36% of the population has subsidised school meals. The situation is not as bad as you said about obesity or nutrition or malnutrition. Only 17% of the total primary population remained. This means 83% is all food and also body weight is within normal limits. I have also recently had a very different information myself, namely that Slovenia belongs to a group of Mediterranean countries where obesity is slightly too large, but Slovenia does not belong to this group of countries, according to the latest data, but belongs to food among the more orderly countries in Europe. Some studies have shown that children today are far less physically sustainable than their peers were in the 1970 ’ s. We cannot say that this is due to a lower number of hours of physical education. In fact, there is another reserve here, and I think that in the future, besides technology and technology in the last year, we will also increase the number of physical education, given that comparative analyses show that Slovenian children in primary school after weekly hours are not among the most burdensome, but quite the opposite. This is where the reserve came in, and in the coming years we will ensure it. High school. There is a slightly more difficult issue here, while in primary schools virtually all schools have kitchens, hot meals provided, and branch schools have organized deliveries in secondary schools, with only 27% of such schools, while others with catering or other means provide at least one meal or one meal. This year we also subsidized about 30,000 students, out of 100,000 students received subsidies from this diet. We have set aside 4 million and 172 thousand euros for this. However, from year to year this share of subsidisation is increasing. This is certainly not an indicator of the deterioration of the social situation, but rather of some effort by a country that wants to bring food as close to its students as possible. I'd like to point out the following. It is precisely in the field of secondary education that the most problematic issue is the healthy way of eating. Here we have some activities, measures, promotions 5 times a day means that we would also have besides meals [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u201	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for this piece you've managed to tell me so far because time has stopped. But what I am particularly pleased with is your willingness to give me written information, because I agree that the question that required such a precise answer is difficult to mediate in just the form spoken. So I recommend this written version. Nor can I say that we would show a misunderstanding for an initiative that I have already given you twice, but we have yet to come up with a precise response to this initiative. This is a question of healthy nutrition in that segment of how food is produced. Since the public procurement system is also linked to the search for the most favourable provider, it is, of course, impossible to expect that in individual schools an integrated food production or organic food could be ordered. In Italy and Austria, one-fifth of public procurement is allowed to order also, at a price slightly more expensive, but therefore to health more useful food. So I ask again: Do you also think about this option because, after all, some action called "The Apple" has already turned out to be beneficial in Slovenian school. However, like you, I realize that one is a healthy diet behaviour, and the other is a healthy diet practice. And in high school students, it's probably the problem that they prefer to eat what we don't consider to be healthy food. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-22-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u203	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the parliamentary questions. To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers of the Government, I thank you for the answers given. I hereby conclude this item on the agenda. I am adjourning the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you and good night!
