ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u1	Dear Members and honourable Members! We continue our 30th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's session cannot be attended by the following Members: Bogdan Barovic, Matjaž Han from 1300 hours away, Ivan Jelen, Miran Jerič, Dušan Kumer, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Breda Pecan from 10.00 hours away, Dr. Mitja Slavinec, Janko Weber and Mag. Anton Rop. Before we proceed to the decision-making of the National Assembly, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. Given that there are no comments on the operation of the devices, I will not take any further complaints into account. We continue to break the 1st item of the agenda - we are considering the 2008 draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. I am opening the procedure for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Ciril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the 2008 budget rebalancing. We will support it because we believe that the 2008 budget, as well as later in 2009, is development-oriented because it foresees an increase in R & D resources because it invests a lot in more coherent regional development in terms of building local infrastructure, as regional R & D facilitation is increasing. We will also support it because the budget foresees lower public spending by 3% of GDP, which represents about a billion euros. The only problem we see in the parliamentary group is inflation, which is conditioned by a higher price of oil and food and is a problem that is also present in the rest of Europe. However, we are confident that the problem of inflation will also be resolved by spring next year. We have been somewhat concerned about the use of European funds, but we are convinced that European funds, according to the Minister for Local Self-Government, are on the right track. We also see a very important and positive budget in terms of employment. I think the budget is so that the unemployed will be even less. The budget is also very good in the area of education and education, or in the field of family policy, where it creates conditions for a better demographic picture. This is how we see in the 2008 budget of the rebalancing and also for 2009 a positive picture, so we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u3	Thank you very much. My colleague, Happy Hvauc, will speak on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. We will also support this budget balance in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. I'll give you some of the main reasons for that. First, this rebalancing reduces the budget deficit, from 0.9% to 0.6% of GDP per third. This is the adjustment of this budget to the favourable economic movements that are in Slovenia. We know that we have very good economic growth and that this deficit needs to be reduced in such favourable times. However, in the coming years, of course, we expect this trend to continue and that one day we will also come up with a compensatory budget or even a surplus. The other important thing is that debt in this budget is declining in GDP. This also shows that we are taking advantage of this favourable situation and this also shows that this budget is anti-inflationary. Not least does this show that expenditure is growing, but it is growing slower than revenue. This certainly shows that the Government is aware of the problems of inflation and that it is also taking an appropriate action in this regard. However, we believe that the budget, although we are saving that public spending is declining, is directed towards more resources in some areas. That's the area of agriculture. In particular, I would mention investment in transport infrastructure, investment in health and research and development, where funds are increasing significantly. It is also important for us that the adjustment budget is treated in the same way by the whole of Slovenia, it is said that funds are being invested widely across Slovenia and that, from this point of view, also those areas where they are more needed will be given certain resources to reduce these differences within Slovenia. Therefore, as has already been said in the introduction, we will also support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u5	Thank you very much. My colleague, Milan Cvikl, will present the SD Group's voting decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u6	Good afternoon. This is the last budget of the Janša government, which is one of the worst budgets in addition to the 2005 rebalancing, 2006 and 2007. The main obvious is that this is an inflationary budget. I would like to tell Members of the ruling coalition that you do not accept the budget balance, so I do not know what we are deciding today, we will not agree with the 2008 budget changes, because we have the 2008 budget, it is published in the Official Journal, which foresees a 6% increase in expenditure. What you are proposing today is twice as much, 11.3% increase in expenditure. In 2007, inflation is accelerating with only 4% of public spending growth. In 2008, public spending rises 11% according to the proposals you are supporting today. That'll speed up the inflation. Budget and budget changes for 2008 are budgets that are closed with much higher taxes. In 2008, this is a special feature of taking out municipalities and receiving all income only from the state budget, which is also a budget that reduces money for education, for social transfers, for pensions. And this is a budget that continues to finance the richest by abolishing housing allowances for 100,000. The 2008 budget is the same as the budgets for 2005, 2006 and 2007, where the country is funding development projects by issuing guarantees, so in 2008 and 2009 budgets you increase the possibility of indebtedness by 4.5 billion. That's cost-saving, I ask you? The 2008 budget is the budget that best reflects where the reforms went. Since the reforms, as one of the columnists said, only reformists have the most. Those who, due to the changes in the rate of income, have also obtained the most, including members of the National Assembly. However, say that we have good public finances when we increase public spending by 11%, wages by 4.5 on average, and for the richest 20%, pensions by [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] 2 percentage points and we haven't raised social transfers in 23 months, then it has to be said that these are bad public finances that will only create a lot more problems in the future. [[...]] We don't support that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain the decision before the vote on their behalf? I'm opening the procedure. Please. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted. I would only remind you that last year, when we adopted the 2007 budget and the 2008 budget, it was already somehow clear that the budget will need to be amended, supplemented in 2008. And that's what happened. Above all, this has happened because of the good economic situation in us and because, on the basis of this, we have wanted or may say, there is a need to include certain projects in the next year's budget that need to be implemented or initiated. This is mainly a railway infrastructure arrangement. And in view of all the other areas, other ministries where certain financial resources have increased so that legal obligations can also be carried out, I firmly believe that the budget is good. Despite tax changes, financial resources have increased, which means that due mainly to good economic growth, this means that the budget is also on [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The expenditure sides could be increased so that we can include these additional activities and projects, which means that we can also do this with the 2008 budget. [[...]] I would therefore like to stress once again, in view of the reduced deficit, despite all these additional commitments; and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The budget is good for activities. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Member Srečko Hvauc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. I will support this draft budget. He supported because I think he's good because he's cost-effective, but despite having favourable economic results, he's planned conservatively, it's a measure of caution, which I think is good. It is true that we have a slightly higher inflation in the last three months, but with this budget and fiscal policy led by this government, for example, I have in mind a reduction in the wage tax, which we abolish in 2009, and I also have in mind the profit tax, which is gradually falling from 25% to 20%, and this government is following these inflationary pressures. But when we talk about inflation, we need to talk about exact numbers. Interannual inflation is currently 5.1%. And by no means does he hold the data that stubbornly states our colleague Squeakl that we have 12 or 13% inflation. That's not true. So I will support this draft budget. I will also support it because I see the continuation of these trends in 2009. And given some concerns that this budget will not be met because it is not realistic, I would only remember that we have listened to a number of concerns in previous budgets before, but none of those bad forecasts have come true. I'll support the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u11	Thank you very much. It's a mistake. Please take into account the content of the explanations of vote. But I need to open up a new round of explanations, and I already know in advance that during today's day it will also be due to your mistake of needless delay. I'm reopening procedure, please. Member Marian Drofenik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Good-bye! I will vote in favour of the adoption of the 2008 budget rebalancing mainly for the following reasons. The rebalancing allocates adequate resources to local communities and thus contributes to equitable regional development. It also provides adequate means to modernise and eliminate bottlenecks on the state road network. It maintains adequate funding for education, science, culture, all of these matters, which we consider to be so-called social activities. This reduces public consumption in the context of gross product. I believe that the 2008 budget, or the rebalancing, is good, development-oriented and I believe that it contributes to a large extent to equitable regional development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Once again, I stress that we are currently at the point of the draft amending the budget. We will only come to basic development programmes, and we will also move on to the harmonisation amendment later and only eventually to the full vote. However, a fellow Member, Josip Bajc, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives and representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! I will vote in favour of the 2008 draft amending budget - and I will not advertise later, Mr Vice-President - for the following reasons. Since the proposal for amending the budget is better than the budget already adopted for 2008 last year, it is balanced and development-oriented. It reduces public spending and also reduces the deficit. In particular, I will support the proposal for amending the 2008 budget, because there has not been a clear picture of the forecasts made by some psychics in 2007, which said that it will be necessary to raise the general tax rate for the implementation of the 2008 budget in order not to repeat everything that happened at the time. And I am sure that, similarly, these two last days of the black predictions of the same psychics will not come true in the implementation of the 2008 budget, so that when the budget is concluded we can only see that the results achieved in 2008 are even better than we will at the conclusion of this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u16	The 2008 budget, as adopted, would only increase the public spending of the state budget by 6% in 2008. Since this is not sufficient to finance pre-election promises in different environments, it is necessary to increase this issue to 11.3. Whether this is good is, of course, a fundamental issue that we must decide in the National Assembly when we decide whether we support or not the general part. And to say that inflation is not a problem because general inflation is 5.1% and inflation in food prices and non-alcoholic beverages at October 2007, 2006, 13.3%, which is 3 times higher than in other EU countries or the Eurogroup, is a matter of judgment. You probably do not feel higher inflation because you have changed the income legislation, which has also significantly raised the net salary for members of the National Assembly. And to those few thousand of the most powerful. At the same time, however, you have adopted legislation that is now in force, which is not coordinated by social transfers. And public spending, as foreseen in the 2008 budget, will further accelerate inflation and make the situation of people more difficult. It is therefore irresponsible to accept such a proposal for amendments to the general budget and reject it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Member Anton Anderlich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u18	I will not support the amendment for a number of reasons. The first is that it is truly pre-electional, not developmental. That he's not the same for all those who deserve development when you're talking about local communities. You let go, you hurt some local communities, and you didn't anticipate the resources that should be provided even after the Constitutional Court's decision. Ljubljana is also in Slovenia, and other towns are in Slovenia, and other municipalities have been deprived of funds for their development. Where is this developmental attitude? I will not support it either because the Minister of Defence is demonstrating social justice in Ljubljana. In the part where it should provide better conditions for the Slovenian Army, there is no progress, nor is the achievement which, if achieved in the streets, is seen in the budget when it comes to social sustainability. I will not support it either because, as it has been found for two days here, it has been found that over the rules of the game, so establishing the framework for defence and security when it comes to the number of soldiers, the number is decreasing and, on the other hand, the funds for purchases are panickingly increasing this year and even in 2009, when some supplies have already started in 2008 or have started now. For 7,100 soldiers, as predicted, it is impossible to reach 8,500 soldiers and, on the other hand, to purchase equipment as if there were still 8,500.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Two of the MPs are suggesting. Is there still a desire to explain your voice? I'm opening a new circle. Here you go. Member Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The tax reform carried out under this government will no longer be included in this list of the 100 richest. This list was created before this tax reform was introduced. And there is no Mrs. Zofija Mazej Kukovic on this list, which was obvious, not in the ninth place you wanted to dump her, not in any other place to the hundreds. There are other names and surnames. Among them there are no members of the government and none of the cabinets. It's a good budget. The change is better and should therefore be supported. I do not understand those who do not see Slovenia moving forward in the last period with different dynamics than it has gone on in the past. And I believe that this dynamic will continue to contribute to an adequate budget. It covers all the environments, not just some, but all the needs of the whole of Slovenia, the countries as much as possible. Of course, it is not always possible to occupy all needs. There are too many of them, and if they were put in the budget, we would talk about a different budget, a larger deficit, but we know that by changing this deficit we are reducing from a few more than 300 million euros to 230 in 2008 and 125 in 2009. The budget is not inflationary, it is countercyclical. I think it would be right for us to reconsider until the vote, and given that there are also a number of amendments in the debate, which some will also support in order to reconsider, and this budget will also be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u21	Thank you very much. My colleague, Boyan Rugelj, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I too have to join some of the predecessors, and I think this budget is really good and I do not understand those who speak of greater inflation. By reducing the budget deficit, this means that inflation is likely to decrease, too, the impact of the budget deficit on inflation. But there are many other effects on inflation, and I wouldn't talk about it now. I might point out, however, that there are also Members in here who are speaking to decimals precisely about some numbers, but at the same time they are mistaken about the same numbers at least a few times for a factor. The budget itself is development-oriented, it brings economic growth and is certainly evenly distributed to all segments of our lives in Slovenia, so there are criticisms that somehow the pre-election budget is completely unfounded. Whoever looks closely not only at the draft budget changes, but the whole budget will see that this is not the case. Here we also have a list of how these investments are distributed across Slovenia, so that we will simply deny these claims of some predecessors. Of course I'll back him up.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Rudy Veršnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to my friends and friends. The budget is good, the budget is development-oriented and, above all, realistic in the given situation. That is why I will support this budget for 2008, amending the budget. However, I would also like to reject the claim that there is an increase in expenditure of 11%. Yes, it is, but at the same time, those gentlemen who claim to do so are forgetting to say at the same time or do not wish to say on purpose that organisational changes have also been adopted this year as regards the obligations of the Railway Agency, which have been legally transferred to the budget of the Ministry of Roads of 110 million. If this were not done, the budget could be flattened. And those who say that the budget is inflationary and I don't know what else, are automatically dropping it and they don't want to say it. But the truth is that the budget is good and developmental. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u25	Thank you, too. A colleague of Borut Sayovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is not the opposition's task to support the budgets. This mission has a coalition. However, it has been clear from the debate on the budget that we have serious problems both everywhere and every day in our lives. Money is never enough, but this moment is also the one that gives us a clear answer, once again, to still sing more than we create, and this is our primary source of problems. Undoubtedly, economic growth is excellent, it is solid, but our expenditure is still too high in terms of this growth and hence inflation and inflation. As far as the word "adopted" or "unadopted" is concerned. No doubt it is right that every government in that year that is coming is trying to prove and prove itself. That's what happened before, and that's how it's gonna be in the future. However, as far as the financing of local communities is concerned, I would say that far from being sufficient and on the ground feeling that there are certain differences between municipalities, that the Government is more inclined to certain municipalities than some others. I object to that. And the thing that I said in the debate last night, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] One of the hits, political and other debates this fall were also water catch, disaster management, disaster management and water maintenance in particular. [[...]] Despite all the problems and all the experiences we have had, the enormous material damage, the human sacrifice, we simply did not devote enough resources and enough money to this area. The budget shall be eloquently calculated. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I do not object, but there is no need to support it. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I'm opening another circle. Here you go. Member Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the 2008 budget because I am convinced that it is good, development-oriented, it provides high economic growth, and yet it is sufficiently cost-effective, as the budget deficit has been falling again, as it has been for several years in a row. I am further strengthened in this belief by the position of the Member of the Social Democrats, Mr Cwickl, who says that this is the worst budget. In view of his past, very poor forecasting in previous years, when he always said that it was a bad budget, that the budget would have negative, harmful consequences, even catastrophic ones, which never happened. Even the opposite. It turned out that in reality things were just the opposite, and this announcement that this time it was the worst budget, convinced me that the budget was good. And if he says it's the worst budget, then it's certainly the best budget. Experience in this mandate has shown that his predictions in reality are just the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u29	Thank you, too. Member of the Parliament, Mr Franz Puksic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I agree with all those who say that the task of the coalition, which prepares and adopts the budget, and that it is the task of the opposition to oppose this budget, even though it is so good. The opposition is never in a position or position to support a good budget, even though this time the coalition has prepared a country-wide development-oriented budget, that the coalition has prepared a budget in such a way that it is not necessary to bring in the amendments what would be neglected, but in this case it would also expect the opposition to see this and support the budget. One of the important changes that has taken place on the basis of the amendment of the Law on the Financing of the Communities, when it is no longer the main instrument of income, but now the transversal, shows that it is not true that some municipalities are also privileged in this budget, as they were before, contrary to the Constitution. The former law was unconstitutional, where it was on the basis of income that individual congregations were privileged and also with the work of appropriate spending of 20% and 8% over the so-called appropriate consumption. That is why I am pleased that we have finally such a budget, and I expect that we will succeed in the 2009 budget rebalancing, to transfer that billion two hundred per cent to the province's legislation, so that they will then discuss those matters that belong there in the province.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u31	Thank you. Member Christian Janc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In these two days of discussions on the 2008 budget, and also on the 2009 proposal, I can say that there has been a lot of support and we have also felt this in the opposition that this budget is not so bad that even some opposition colleagues can support it. And I think that this is so, too, that today's debate, the position of individuals, because I have no problems myself, I will gladly support it, simply because I feel one positive attitude in this budget, polycentric development in all of Slovenia, more coherent regional development and, above all, more development-oriented. As many investment elements as this budget has for next year, not only in the field of roads, but in general in all areas of Slovenia, there is one thing that shows that not only Ljubljana is the one that supports it, but the whole of Slovenia. The second thing I think is important in this segment is that it reduces the deficit, which is very important to reduce public spending, in fact to emphasise those needs that have not been sufficiently addressed in the past by local communities. These are the development segment of the country as a whole and of the region. And if they develop you well, the region will. And if there is a region, there will be a country. And this is an important message from the entire budget to all those who do not yet believe. I hope that by the end of the vote you will accept this and support this good budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? I'm opening a new fifth circle. A colleague of Franz Žnidaršič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I didn't want to explain my voice, but apparently everyone thinks we have to do this, so if that's the decision, we'll be here by tomorrow. I do not agree with those who say that this budget is the worst. A little effort could be made to do worse, but it also has good solutions and no chance of falling. That is why I will also support him as a coalition Member. But I have to say, it's bad when I look at it from the point of view of health care, say, for which there's less money, or social. Only at the expense of transfers is €25 million allocated elsewhere in this budget, for which we could make four homes for pensioners, for the elderly, which we no longer build. And we didn't do it. It's gonna go somewhere else. Maybe in the development we're talking about and we're not up against. The problem is that I have not imagined faster development at the expense of shutting down the social state and problems for those who have at least what happened. Last year, when we passed the Social Transfer Act, this year 20 million euro savings, the second year 25 million euro savings or together eight homes for the elderly, which we do not have. 14,000 people are waiting for their own bed and will die forgotten from above, the state and society, abandoned somewhere in impossible conditions without adequate health and social care in institutions where there is not enough room. This is, among other things, this budget, which is supposed to be the best. He's not the best, he's got his own weaknesses that we could even talk about. But they are also good things, and because of those good things, I will support this budget with a heavy heart, because it goes well at the expense of what is very bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u35	Thank you. Member Rudolf Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u36	Thank you very much. In these budgets, I can say that they are somewhat development-oriented, but not as required by the programmes and declarations that we have put into development. This shows that for education based on 19, the share of gross social income since 2005 fell from 4.8 to 4.3 and further fell: 4.8 - 4.7 - 4.6 - 4.5 - 4.4 and for 2009 even to 4.3. This budget is certainly not as the picture is given in the public eye. It has been said that this account is so good that I fear that people will get diabetes from it and I will vote against it to maintain public health.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Who needs an explanation in connection with the general part of the draft budget? [[No, no, ……]] Then we can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, for 48, for 19. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the general part of the proposal for amending the 2008 budget is adopted. However, we are moving on to a decision on the amendments to a specific part of the draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. They are recorded in the review of the amendments of 26.11. Before this, I would like to remind you that the amendment to the user - the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth, the sub-programme Sport Programme, which does not refer to this user, but to the user, the Ministry of Education and Sport. We will therefore consider this amendment as the first user of the Ministry of Education and Sport. Please take this into account. We will vote on individual budget users and sub-programmes to which amendments have been tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment within the framework of the user of the Nationality Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the budget sub-programme. Support to national communities. Amendment number 1, the applicant shall be the Commission for National Communities. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present for 58, against 3. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to the same sub-programme and to the same user, and the proposer is also the Commission for National Communities. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, for 15, against 48. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment to the same user and to the same sub-programme. The amendment is proposed by Ambassador Roberto Battelli. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 49. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to an amendment with the user of the Ministry of Finance, sub-programme Supplemental funds to municipalities. The amendment is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Comrade Squeakle, explanation of voice. I am opening the procedure for explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u38	Thank you very much. We propose this amendment because we want first of all to receive the support of the ruling coalition, which, with the support of this amendment, would in particular recognise that the community funding system, as established in 2006, is very wrong. This was not the last time the Constitutional Court found out. It has been found that the unconstitutional provision of the Law on the Financing of the Communities, which states that in a simplified way, we decide here in this National Assembly how many congregations should receive funds. However, the law on the implementation of the budget is closed at the point of the supplementary capital of the principal and the proportion of the retirement income. Therefore, only with the additional 500,000 euros proposed here can the situation be slightly rectified in 2008 and then unacceptable in 2009. The state authorities will be financed with a 20% rate of income increase and municipalities are expected to receive slightly less than 5 percentage points of higher income. Is this a proper relationship? When you adopted this legislation, which the Constitutional Court said was unconstitutional, the proportion of income between the state and the municipalities was 50:50. Out of about 2.3 billion income, as much as we collect it from all Slovenian taxpayers, in 2008-2009 there are only 44 in the first place, and in 2009 only 42% of the income allocated to municipalities due to the provisions of the legislation and because this is the easiest way to close the 2008 budget for the Minister of Finance. Explain to me why, with the 2008 budget changes, we are adding 43 million euros of income to the state budget and only 3 million euros of income to the municipalities. That's what we think is wrong. And not only because of the constitutional decision, but because this system is long-term inadequate for the development of all Slovene municipalities, I propose that you correct this mistake and join the amendment that we have proposed for [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the municipalities of the budgetary user of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We're voting. 69 Members and Members were present and 25 were voted in favour of the amendment and 42 members opposed the amendment. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're transferring to the user of the Ministry of Defense. Under the sub-programme of International Cooperation, we have the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties. I am opening the procedure for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that some fellow Members, particularly fellow Members, do not understand what the European Aeronautics Museum is, I think it makes sense for this amendment to be confirmed. The point is that the organization of this air museum, which will be absolutely in the world in the first place, is already on the move. We need some money from the government more because it will be presented in the world as a state project than anything else. Investors or sponsors, donors, have contributed a great deal of funding and projects are under way. The projects run extremely successfully and will also provide between 400 and 450 direct jobs and around 2,000 to 2,500 indirect jobs where this museum will stand. If some of my colleagues don't understand this, I can explain it to them this afternoon, but not alone. I think it would make sense for a colleague to also go to reading other things than the old Ekrans - the screen was a film magazine at some point - and to learn about some smart stuff, not just what kind of bubbles they're spending around. I think it is useful for Slovenia to get this museum, so it makes sense for some funds to be transferred to this item. It is essential that the items do not close, that they exist in these documents, because at the Assembly of the Western European Union they will see that we have deleted the item from our budget, and that would be bad. It can happen if the Western European Union thinks that the government does not support the project, so that they can start thinking about moving this airport to the Croatian side. I don't think that would be good for the country, and I hope to get support for the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Procedurally. First, he was a colleague of Bajc's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Even if I were to agree with the amendment's proposal, colleague Jelinčič, I think there is a very big mistake here. It is added for this so-called airport of 41 million 729 thousand and is taken to the Ministry of Agriculture of 41.729 euros. Is this about the lapsus or is it something else? Maybe it takes so much for the museum, but I don't know where the difference will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u43	I'm sorry, the technical services tell me it's just a technical error. Comrade Anderlich, did you want to point out the same thing? Good. Can we get to the vote? Explanation on its own behalf. I'm opening the procedure. Here you go. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u44	Thank you very much. As it was yesterday in the 2009 budget debate by the Group of Ambassadors, indeed, we will not, and will not, support this amount today when it comes to 2008. Research into whether we need research, how, why, where, where, how, we've been going for many years. In 2006, there were only EUR 20,000 spent on culture, not on defence, and on the foreign ministry, 41,000 euros in 2007, nearly 42,000 in 2008 and almost 43,000 euros in 2009 for something to be researched or not. At the same time, ecological and other movements wonder whether in Slovenia we need a museum that is supposed to have dimensions larger than the Keops pyramid, and I wonder whether we might not need to finally build a national and university library, which in this budget is not the spirit or hearing of it. We've been building it for 15, 16 years. If the economies and other associations are so interested in this mega project, which is supposed to penetrate and cut into the province under Nanos, then they should investigate whether they invest in it. The state has given a lot of money for research, the Ministry of Culture has not said what it has in this research and is expected to invest in research and promotion in 2008, 2009 which I think is virtually virtual, especially when there are no basics yet provided for the nation of important infrastructure buildings such as NUK, thinking about the second Keops pyramid in Slovenia, which is supposed to cost 60 billion tolars, makes no sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Member of the European Parliament, Mr Yelinčič Trimenite, but at the same time please, if you can re-emphasize the amounts due to the Magnographic Record that it will not be due to the awkwardness of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u46	Thank you very much. First of all, I am correcting the amount of €41.729. Once again, I would like to point out that the museum is very meaningful. It's made sense, and I don't know how it's possible for someone to talk about not having a national university library yet, but for 12 years he shared his rights in the former government, and he didn't think it was worth it at the time to take up other projects. At the time, however, it was nice to stand up for the construction or reconstruction of the Cinematheque when the husband’s work was involved when the lady was sitting in the administrations and bodies of the Cinematheque. And let's leave, and her financial information is wrong, I won't say lying, I'll say wrong, because the lady probably doesn't understand or can't read these things, and I would also say that if I were aware of what the economy has already invested, I would say otherwise, but she doesn't care or doesn't understand. I understand. Some things are hard to digest if they're not at one very low level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 7 votes against 51. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. However, we are moving to the user of the Ministry of Economy, the sub-programme Programmes for the Promotion of Technological Development, the economy where one amendment has been tabled, the proposed Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. I'm sorry. Comrade Ferri Horvat, explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representative of the Government. I'd like to ask you to explain why the government doesn't support this amendment. This is totally incomprehensible. The fact is that technological development and investment in technological development is an essential condition for quality economic development, for higher added value and for the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy. We know that this is one of the main items in the Lisbon Strategy. And what you have been saying these days, and the representatives of the government and the coalition MPs, is that we are significantly increasing funds for technological development, colleagues and colleagues, whether you are bluffing or not. Let us be realistic and see what it means to hide behind this percentage increase. It is true that this increase as a percentage is relatively large for both budgets, but the starting base is low. And if we look at the share of the gross domestic product, it's still far, far too low in this budget that we're now adopting, there's 0.71%, and in 2009 it's expected to grow to 0.80 and a few percent. But this is still far too small in relation to the European Union not to talk about the most pro-pulsive, successful countries, for example, Scandinavian countries that invest 3% for this purpose. Other countries, too, that we are not talking about America and, after all, China. Such behaviour does not constitute an effective development-oriented budget. Globally, however, this is not such a big asset as to jeopardise the full budget balance.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u49	Thank you very much. As an explanation, we are in the stage of voting on individual amendments. We have already completed the debate phase with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not even have the right to speak in this situation. Comrade Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u50	I will not support this amendment because it is illogical. Taking it from technological development items and putting it in another area for technological development is simply not serious. I would understand and support the amendment if it were made up to contain only a reduction of funds in the second part, where there would really be a lot of money left when it comes to the provision of arms and infrastructure capacity. No, it won't stay, it'll be wasted irrationally, needlessly, because there won't be any soldiers and no one will have to use those resources. But if you look ahead, you're all taking, even a coalition, right from the scientific and technological development of the military. And those things that they have done in the military in recent years, along with domestic companies and universities and development colleges, on technological updates and so on, are a success. There were no members of the coalition, but last week we looked at a system where a lot of this technological knowledge was embedded, I think Mr Aurelio was there. It is now in itself reduced in the budget from €24 million to €23 million in changes, and it will be further reduced here because those amendments will be adopted, although I will oppose where it comes from technological development funds, it is transferred to some other development programmes. And I simply say, if this amendment were to be divided, then I would support it, but I cannot support that we support technological development in another area with one item on technological development, because I do not see any logic in this. That's why I won't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 47. [[The vote was 13. (against 47.)]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme of Competitiveness Programmes. Under this sub-programme we have two amendments, the first to propose the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. We vote. There are 66 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 46. (For the vote was 19.)(against 46.) I apologize to my colleague Germich for missing you, but you must also understand the president, I ask you to raise your hands in time to see you, at your request, at your request. The second amendment under the Sub-programme is the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 47. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted either. We are moving to a sub-programme to restructure businesses. Under this sub-programme, we have one amendment, the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u52	I suggest you support this amendment, and I will support it myself, the reasons for this are quite something, but they are linked to what you have previously adopted in the general part of the budget. At the fixed rate of the euro and its appreciation against mainly Juan and the dollar, Slovenian exporters will be in increasing difficulty. Some Slovenian exporters, such as Koroška Prevent, are already predicting the need to move production. Similarly, there will be a number of other processing industries, so there are not many instruments available to fiscal policy to ensure that, in the face of the increasing inflation you have triggered, the economic activity, especially the domestic processing industry, is maintained. That is why we propose an increase of €1 million. And since we are taking it from Patri, to put it simply, I believe that some fellow Members who previously were unable to support the amendment to support science and technological development will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 46. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a user, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition, in the context of my apologies, we remain within the framework of the user of the Ministry of Economy under the sub-programme Promoting the Development of a Small Economy. [[...]] We also have an amendment under this sub-programme tabled by the Group of Social Democrats. Mr. Ferry Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. I will of course support the amendment, and I am sure that my colleagues and colleagues too, I hope that others who express so much love and respect for the small economy during the year, especially in words. We are now, colleagues and colleagues, in a concrete decision to create the actual conditions for a single acceleration of this activity and that it will play an even greater role in the national economy and also in exports. The fact is that when we adopted the Support Environment Act, as the legal framework and the organisational framework for supporting the small economy, when we adopted a series of other normative acts and guidelines, of course, without resources in the budget, which will then complement other resources, both domestic and foreign, including European funds, the European Investment Bank's funds and the like. The prerequisite for this is to provide at least minimum funds. And among the proposals made by the Chamber of Commerce in particular on behalf of the small economy are proposals that more tax reliefs should also be granted. These are not provided, unfortunately, especially for the purchase of equipment, for the rest of the economy, not for a small economy other than technological equipment, and therefore it was so much more important, so much more valuable to provide these minimum resources additionally, which would certainly mean a faster development of this activity and also a more coherent regional development, rural development combined with other activities and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Comrade Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. So because of the magnetogram, I'd like to say the following. First of all, I will not support this amendment, but I understand that all these amendments and all this talk are just for the sake of getting political points. While it is true that there is a need for a small economy and entrepreneurship, etc., but if these two amendments, the previous one and the current one, were to be adopted only under these two amendments, the General Staff would be deprived of EUR 5 million. But if we were to add up all the amendments that were put in to take the General Staff, and the General Staff became, yes, they would have come down. It's not serious. It's not serious. Such amendments really mean nothing more than some deception of the Slovenian public, and if this really turns out to be the way you predict that you will win the elections next year, then I expect you to end the Slovenian Army in your winning programme. Through the amendments you are proposing, this would be the way to understand it, and I would expect to show a little more seriousness when the debate is closed. Today, in most of these amendments, the same story repeats itself after two days of speaking and persuading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, there is a need to talk about trends in economic programmes that talk about increasing competitiveness, restructuring businesses and promoting a small economy. The attitude of this government towards this area needs to be discussed. And if you look at the explanations of these amendments by the Government, you will find that for 2008 you can see that the Government recognises that the resources in this budget are falling, which we are considering today in the light of the budget adopted. And in dealing with the amendments in 2009, we will continue to reduce funding for all these areas in relation to the 2008 budget. This means that the Government speaks one way to promote the direction of the Slovenian economy in order to make it as competitive as possible. However, in the support we need under the budget lines, of course, we are following a completely different trend. We need to talk about this today when we talk about these issues. The question is whether Slovenia, with this attitude of the Slovenian government to support this area, will be able to follow a trend of competitiveness that is growing. We are aware of the data on the measurement of economic growth, and, of course, this is the area where the Government devotes significantly less resources in the trend of this year and in the trend of the following year. And that's the problem. And given that it does not support these amendments, which would increase funds, but you are reducing them, of course, the concern is so much greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u59	Thank you very much. An explanation of Milan Cwickl's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. It is important to speak here about this amendment, especially about the Government's position on this amendment. For you will decide today that, well, the parent working body of this amendment does not support, even perhaps I understand that in view of Saturday morning. But that is that the government, as my colleague Anderlich put it, repulsively rejects all amendments, is unacceptable. In particular, because the Government says that the funds envisaged in 2008 are sufficient to carry out the planned activities in this area. How does the government know what plans little entrepreneurs have? And I do not believe that in Slovenia there would be any small entrepreneur who would deny that more resources could be obtained from the tender. And that is why, of course, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this case, and, of course, with some others I will come to my attention, seems disastrously bad. As far as you're concerned, who says we're gonna take the General Staff's money, no. We'd only like to take the 20% commission the middleman has to buy Patri. At about 250 million, 20% of the commission is 50 million. And with the amendments you just rejected, we only take five million. And Mr. Erjavec would understand that if it were left to him and he didn't. Therefore, the rejection of this amendment is also to give only one small entrepreneur, Rotis, d.o.o., who is only engaged in mediating between Gorenje and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia. This isn't entrepreneurship, but it's profit not to say anything else. I therefore propose that you support the amendment, as this will only provide less money for intermediaries.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Member Tanko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to aid to a small and large economy, not all is addressed by amendments. The government has already done a key or most of the work by adopting tax reforms and also by adopting a number of administrative reforms. There they are introduced into this system of small and large economies of greatest benefit. According to some figures of the Chamber of Commerce, the administrative reforms in 2005 alone had effects for more than 20 billion Slovenian tolars. All of these effects, which have already been introduced through tax reform, through the way in which stocks are managed, through the removal of forms and other matters, bring substantially more than such an amendment for a million or half Slovenian tolars. There's been a major hypocrisy. On the one hand, you are talking about how to support a small economy and when you had the opportunity, you have adopted very strict tax legislation. And with tight tax legislation, with some of these optically beautiful things, you can't fix it. That's why we won't support this amendment. The government has adopted tax reforms, continuously improves administrative conditions for operation, significantly improves the conditions for setting up new businesses and, despite all these measures implemented, in order to improve conservation, at least preserve, the level of aid for the small economy. In short, after all these measures, we estimate that this resource is also sufficient in the proposed form to implement the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Member Cyril Testen has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! I will not support this amendment. However, I will not support it because I think that in the legislative field and in the tax area it was for a small economy and also for an economy made large and also the results of exports show this. In this regard, however, I would like to draw attention to one other thing that has also been said in the presentation of the views of the groups on exports. In particular, Mr. Cwickl, who represented the position of the SD party, stated the following: [[This entry is also in Evening and I quote from Evening]] : "According to the data of the Bank of Slovenia, in 2002 every citizen created €1,500 more exports than imports. In 2007, everyone creates a deficit of 5,000 or a total of 1.1 billion euros." Now I would like to point out, for the first time, that this is not Banka Slovenije's data, because Banka Slovenije is not so'shampast' that it would write something like that, because a billion 100 divided by two million will come up with 500 euros, not 5,000 euros. This is one of those flowers and the views that Mr. Squeakl is constantly teaching us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Comrade Bevk, please raise your hand as sovereignly as possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. I am sure that, due to the adoption of this amendment, nothing will suffer from operational action and the maintenance of the readiness of the Slovenian Army. After all, you yourself have reduced the budget of the Ministry of Defence from EUR 634 million to EUR 631 million for 2009, and it is clear that there are still some reserves in this budget. After all, you have opted to build eight ministries and palaces totalling more than 200 million euros. For Patrie himself, it will cost EUR 275 million, almost EUR half a billion, and I think that we could invest this, or at least a small, part of that, in more productive investments and also in some infrastructure projects. With this amendment, we are earmarking these funds to the Ministry of Transport for the construction of motorways and I think this would be a very good investment, so I will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The 60 present is a Member of Parliament and Members, with 15 votes against 45. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the user of the Office of Competition Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. Under the sub-programme, we have one amendment, the proposed Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Comrade Blackwich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u68	On behalf of the Group of Members. In the discussion on the budget, a lot of words were addressed to the problem facing Slovenia, that is inflation. When we faced a debate on this issue, we also faced a debate on the causes. And the two fundamental causes that we've been dealing with are the price of oil and the price of food. If we are talking about oil prices that these indices are roughly the same in both the EU and Slovenia, it is interesting that when food prices rise, this index is slightly above 3% in the EU, with us above 13%. You have probably read public warnings from the Governor of Banka Slovenije about the specific market in Slovenia. It is a market that is not yet sufficiently resilient with competition, which is, of course, very difficult to determine whether it is cartel agreements or agreements or not, because it is likely that players in this market do not sign each other publicly. To draw an example, however, and in this case we have one that is very large and his example draws, which means that we face abnormal margins in Slovenia that reach over 60%. As a result, of course, they are at the Office for the Protection of Competition, according to which, in the regulator of the market, the regulator is an independent body and its role is not so easy, it is difficult because it has to weigh between one and the other interests, it has to be independent of the governing policy as well as the economy. And in these situations we have in Slovenia, the activities that need to be done to determine that there are some anomalies on the market and appropriate measures, different from in some more resilient economy. This is an additional €100,000 for the Office of Competition Protection. The amendment is proposed by the Group of Social Democrats. Well, it's not about, I don't know, what kind of means. By the way, it is twice as much money as was demanded by the President of the Commission of Inquiry 8x8 Mr. Squeakl as an external consultant to file and search the papers. But with this support, which we have decided in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, it is primarily a psychological aspect, a support that is also expressed through support for this increase of money for the Office, which should give a clear signal that the Office for Competition Protection is supposed to be a market regulator, proper conduct is expected, as these behaviours are necessary. And after this office has left its former leader, Mr Plahutnik, we hope that certain changes will also take place in this area and certain measures that will lead to a reduction would say monopolistic margins. That is why we support this amendment in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek. [[You're giving up.]] Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u70	In the Group of Social Democrats, of course, for the first time, we proposed an amendment, his mother's working body rejected him, and the government rejected him in its written opinion. There's been a twist. A new Director of the Competition Protection Office was appointed on Monday. When we sat in a hot chair, he was told what he would have to do. He will have to take the voting rights of some Slovenian companies, in principle, I suppose, along with Mrs Brezigarjevo, a pomp of Slovenian businessmen. This substantive or semi-explanatory explanation is also given in today's interview by Mr Janez Janša. I am pleased that the SDS Group has its own opinion, which is different from that of the Government, so that I do not understand it at this time - whether we now have some interpretation of the Group's opinion on the Government or whether it is a conversion that will largely define the policy in the remainder of this Government's mandate. The Competition Authority needs additional resources to work professionally and not politically. If, as has been said, the local forecast of support for the political functioning of this office is, then I have a lot of problems with that. To conclude, just one more procedural question for the leadership of the National Assembly. No one, nor does the President of the Commission of Inquiry, know how much parliamentary investigative action has cost. And I would like to know how a Member of the SDS Group may know something that the Secretary-General of the National Assembly has signed. I don't know how much the contract was worth, which the Member said was worth half of 100,000 euros; I don't know. However, if we have a situation in the National Assembly where the services of the National Assembly for policy purposes are subordinated to individual parliamentary groups, this is, of course, a serious intervention in parliamentary democracy. But if you're engaged, Mr. Blackach, I can't help you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Given that we are in the context of the budgetary debate, I ask you to address your questions to the College, and I believe that the College will be happy to address your case. Vote explanation, Comrade Chernač. [[The ad in the hall.]] Comrade Blackie, will you have a word or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u72	I am already on behalf of the Group of Members, and I cannot yet, on my behalf, because I think that colleague Horvat has raised his hand before me on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u73	Comrade Blacky, I gave you my word. Are you going to use it or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u74	Well, I don't know how much this consulting contract cost either. Whatever the amount was, it was unnecessary because we have jobs in the National Assembly that are capable of doing this work. However, I know that you have requested 40,000 euros for this action; as far as you have been granted, I do not know. I must say that in addition to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members and myself personally, which I will support, this amendment is also supported by the New Slovenia Group, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Retired Persons, because we are probably all aware of this importance together - not because of what we have heard before, in this case, about the withdrawal of voting rights, this is an act when you point out something in advance, even though you know that there was nothing to say about it, that you are already building a defence wall. This fear that the Ombudsman is now about to take away from a commercial society the voting rights of a newspaper, and this fear surprises me greatly. I'm very surprised because these same people said that they were buying the job just because they could increase the profits, that their editorial policy and everything that was going on in that area was completely out of interest. But, look, soon there's a member of the supervisory board who's gonna take care of the personnel tsunami at Del. The president of the board, the editor-in-chief, the kind of other people. And now they're worried for once because they don't want to get involved in this editorial policy and they attribute these moves to the President of the Government, who has nothing to do with it, but they're going to be deprived of these rights for this intervention, but they're only going after one goal, that's a bigger profit. I really don't get it. I am confident that the regulator will deal with much more important issues, including the standard of citizens and citizens, and therefore we are also giving him some psychological support with this support. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] I will vote for this amendment myself. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u75	Several Members asked me during your explanation if you were talking about the amendment. The answer to those Members, no, you didn't talk about it. So, we can close and go to the vote. Comrade Squeakle, I think you've already made your point. Comrade Squeakle, please don't start a debate that is completely pointless. [[...]] [[The voice from the hall.]] [[...]] Comrade Squeakle, you have the right by the rules of procedure, and of course, I give it to you, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u76	Well, I'm glad we have the full support of the coalition fully to this amendment. That's what was said. I will, of course, support the amendment. I think it is right that we provide additional resources to the Competition Protection Office. It is better than ever that the Government has realized that the amendments that we have proposed in the Group of Social Democrats are true. This is what we proposed first, when the draft budget amendments were prepared for the meeting of the parent working body, the discussion was there, we reject everything. Then the government once again said it - we reject everything, and this conversion is very interesting. But that's the way it is in this Republic of Slovenia. Let's support the amendment. I am pleased that the coalition will fully support him. But I no longer understand who is the leader of the coalition's parliamentary group or parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We can go to the vote. Comrade Tank, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Now, from these explanations that we have heard, it is somehow perceived that he is espousing some regret that you have proposed this amendment at all. I must say, we've studied the matter seriously in the coalition. It seemed meaningful to us, especially since this increases the ability and power of an independent regulator in the area of competition protection. I think that something serious must be done in this area if the opposition so persistently warns that things do not work in this area, then we are also obliged in the coalition to listen sometimes to the good initiatives of the opposition, and this is one of those that seems particularly meaningful to us. In fact, it is the problem that has been pointed out before that at least those who speak the most about this issue are doing so in the area of public spending. The fact is that the public consumer is also the National Assembly, that the National Assembly has organised services, has its own staff, but for some of these internal staff are not sufficient and good enough and they imagine in their work expensive external associates for pure banal issues, for documentation and for reminders. I think that those, and Mr. Squeakle, here is the real pearl of these, those who spend irrational public spending, that we should do with ourselves first what they propose to others and what they want from others. I hope that we will also have the opportunity to experience this enlightenment with my colleague. But I will definitely support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u79	Thank you. My friend Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u80	I'm really embarrassed whether this amendment is supported or not. It's not funny, Mr. Puksich and the others. It's about where you're getting this money. International aid, you rejected the amendment that corrected what you did wrong, that you reduced the contribution of the ITF to demining in the vicinity, where Slovenian interest is still important and this assistance is also intended for these things, including and especially for these things. And I don't know if you're thinking about taking the little help that's meant to be mined in Croatia, Bosnia and there as a result of the war, Slovenia, as well as virtually all democratic countries, is contributing to this fund. And since something's happened here, something's going on, and it's being taken from this item. I am not against adding to the Ombudsman or, as it is said, to the Office of Competition Protection, but I have come across again in an area so sensitive, so sensitive, and it is so small that it is a plan to help put an end to the consequences of the war on these premises as soon as possible, and even eventually in the light of the presidency of the second year, it would be very good that the funds planned at least in that part would be preserved, not given to any other item. If we took only one piece of 39 million euros that were offered to the previous day for the purchase of some other equipment, we could cover it, but, as it is said, I have now opened an additional question with these discussions, or we are not doing any damage, but I have no reservations, because you will obviously accept this easily.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u81	Thank you. I can't give you the replica in the exposition phase. My friend Pukšič, I know you know that. Please do not delay the work of the National Assembly for unnecessary reasons. Explanation, Mr Geza Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll support the amendment. One reason is that my source is no longer questionable when the coalition supports the amendment means that you know where you will replace the funds. The other two reasons are that, at this time, this office has an important role to play, and it is true that it has not played its part at this time. If the solution is to replace leadership, of course I support it and also believe the predictions, as we have seen and heard, that the new Head of the Office is not satisfied with either human resources or financial support. And here's where you have to do something. At a time when irritations are too much and you push things to encourage food, which is 27% within inflation, it is true that this irritation in people with the lowest incomes is 60% inside the basket or within their budget resources and that something has to be done. The first effects of the office will be seen when this office will have to go first to the system to which the government has been led by the current government. In fact, Mercator is the one that generates food stimulation, that's food, not raw materials. I mean, food on the shelf. And it will have to be done first of all in this system, and if this system reduces food and commission prices, which are in the form of margins and discounts, then food will be cheap and will also have to stay smaller, otherwise large sellers, to at least partially recover the issue in this segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Member Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u84	Thank you very much. In these days we hear rumors that the coalition does not support any amendment of the opposition. When this happens to support someone, you're more disappointed than if you didn't support them. This is the wrong world. You say one thing, you do the other. Nothing is right for you. If we take him down, it's not right if we don't support him. What do you want? Please tell the Slovenian public that we do not support or support any of your amendments. Tell me.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u85	[[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Say that again in the microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u86	I will vote as proposed by the Government. Against.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u87	Just like the government suggests. Thank you. Explanation of the vote by colleague Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. It's so nice to see the opposition in what kind of trouble it is because the entire coalition has agreed to support this amendment. Why? Because it is an amendment aimed at combating inflation, exposing those who abuse their position as monopolies. Where are they? Who are these people? Yes, you find them in the SD line, some also elsewhere, on their satellites in the opposition, and don't be seduced by that game we witnessed yesterday, how they suddenly broke up with one of the biggest monopolies. We can now bet that once they have a common interest, they will stand together as always. They just know how to do it, and it's just a maneuver, a blinding public opinion. As long as the naive people fall for it. But the same maneuver was obviously with this amendment, because if this amendment were to be sincerely tabled, we would now be jumping with joy because the entire coalition decided to support it and to vote in favour of your amendment. But, this amendment, in fact, is, as you have discovered at the last moment, intended to expose yourself, your deception and your games, which is also the cause of one part of inflation, which is undoubtedly also political. Indeed, those who do not have any basic and are the fruit of monopolies are certainly also politically motivated by the fact that the findings are then addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And if that's what those same monopolies do, the game is so much more transparent.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u89	Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I don't know who's in trouble. As an opposition Member, I have never been in trouble, and I had a clear position to support this amendment. Someone else must have been in trouble, and this almighty government, which itself did not remember to propose such an amendment, but you have proved that you are smarter than the government that represents you here, because you have decided to make such an important amendment, which, among other things, speaks as you yourself have said, to support the fight against inflation. And so all congratulations, and I hope that this intelligence will keep you going, after the entire review of the amendments that are still ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u92	My colleague Janc, my colleague Grimes, we are sincerely pleased with your foretold support for our amendment. We don't jump for joy, my knees hurt personally, but that doesn't mean we wouldn't be truly satisfied. But I don't know why you're so nervous, and every time we open up a window from the opposition, you realize that we've come up with a smart solution, you're attacking us. Even when a partnership arose here at one point, of course - the opposition is again the subject of attacks. So, confusion and nervousness are on your side, it's in your kind, we don't have it. However, we are pleased if the predictions are fulfilled and our amendment is supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Member Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I wonder whose government has then drawn up a draft budget, that it is now only some of the coalition's colleagues that it is necessary to adopt an amendment that will put an end to corruption in our economy, as some have debated. And since this government of this coalition and the government have given a negative opinion, I will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u95	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 6. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And we are switching to the user of the Ministry of Transport. Two amendments have been tabled under the Transport Regulation and Control sub-programme, the first being the amendment to the amendment, the proposed Finance and Monetary Policy Committee. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the second amendment under the same sub-programme, the proposed SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] However, we are moving on to a decision in connection with the amendment under the sub-programme of the Road Construction Fund. Ambassadorial Group of Social Democrats. Comrade Squeakle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u96	In 2003, we agreed with the European Commission that Darsa's indebtedness to a shareholder company was not included in the country's debt according to ESA 95 methodology. This has included our highway programme in highway programmes of countries such as Austria, Portugal and some others. The reason for this was double or if you want triple nature. Firstly, we said that we would build highways out of co-financing from the state budget, with debt and that credits would return to the toll. It was also calculated that these loans would return by 2020. The assumption of this model was that, until 2013, when we complete the complementary programme for the construction of motorways, we finance these motorways annually from the state budget of up to 200 million euros, even in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008. The Minister of Finance was blinded by his appointment as Minister of Finance for the year, saying that it was not a problem to be in debt and only to be in charge of motorways. Therefore, with the 2005 rebalancing, the 2006 budget, 2007 and 2008, you threw the co-financing of motorways out of the state budget. The result is very simple. A member of the Dars administration, Mr Jean Oplovtnik, along with some other economists, calculated that the result would be double. First time. With 2009, the tolls will have to be raised by at least 40%. And a second time. The loans will not be returned by 2020, but by 2070. And the surplus that we would have after we return the loans, we won't be able to invest in the third and fourth development axis. During the mandate of this government, the Republic of Slovenia has accelerated the construction of motorways with debt and these loans will be returned by the children of our children. Is that smart politics? We don't think so. What is particularly problematic, however, is that a serious European Commission perspective on this issue would now place our highway programme among the Hungarian and Hungarian highways part of the expenditure of the state budget and therefore have a much higher deficit. This, gentlemen, is because of the simplicity of the Minister for Finance and the misunderstanding of the President of the Government, this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u97	Thank you. My friend Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. As regards the Resolution of the National Road Construction Programme, it was adopted in May 2004. This is said to be a document adopted by the previous coalition, the previous government. This resolution provides for funding sources, including the most important source, securities, bonds, or domestically, debt, a majority source. And the return of these resources is foreseen by 2033 following this resolution, not until 2020, as Mr Cvikl has said, but by 2033. He was the minister of that government who accepted it. At that time, at the time before the elections, the government also decided that it was necessary to speed up the construction of roads on some of the legs, beyond what it had adopted about a month earlier. And she left this legacy to the new coalition. This new coalition is implementing this and the fact is that this accelerated, accelerated construction of motorways cannot be implemented without additional resources that can be absorbed exclusively through debt. Thus, the conclusion of that previous coalition, the former government, in which Mr Swickl was a very important minister and supervisor over these funds, led to the introduction of additional requirements and, consequently, additional requirements for the means of indebtedness, past the adopted national programme adopted by this National Assembly. The recovery of funds will also be carried out in accordance with this programme. However, in any case, as a majority source, the refund resource remains a toll. That's for sure. However, the problem is that this toll is such a source that it is not consistently collected again due to the conclusions of the previous coalitions. We don't have a single toll system on this toll collection system. We have closed systems, half closed, open systems somewhere. And the conclusion, not once, but several times it was necessary to cover this toll further. And because of these holes that you've caused with such inconsistent introduction of toll systems, it's a 30.40% drop in value, toll height. And I hope there's so much wisdom in the current opposition that at least he's not talking against himself right now. We're working. [[...]] [[End warning sign]] and the conclusions adopted by the previous coalition. [[...]] And many who protest here are now important opposition MPs, former ones, and they are former ministers of the government that has accepted it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u99	Thank you. On behalf of the delegation, Tone Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u100	I'm not going to vote on this amendment, not against it, but I'm going to abstain, because the inconsistencies are where this money is to be taken. Otherwise, I support the intention, which is set at EUR 15 million for this purpose. Look, I believe this budget for 2008 is going to be next for 2009, but we're still discussing 2003, 2004, I don't know which years to go back. In this regard, I have to ask the emphasis of myself, the Ministry of Finance, I will be very difficult for the government, because we will be alone for a few moments, so there will be no problem where the law for the purpose of providing money for the construction of motorways is. There is a law that replaces the Gas Tolar Act because we no longer have it, but the money that is collected from every litre of petrol or oil disappears somewhere in the integral budget. And you say money is cheap on the market - it's not as cheap as it was when you decided to build an old Yugoslav system to build highways on credit. And the structure is very clear and calculated. When this payment is completed, of course it is a matter of depreciation plan, but the structure, toll, so-called funds collected under the Law on the provision of means for the construction of motorways, and of course also with credits. I regret that Dars is not a serious economic company that, on its own behalf and on its own account, would be in charge of and take care of this, but would rent all the loans with the State guarantee. But since there's so much talk about accelerating the construction of highways, this amendment won't do it. But for the third year you've been doing economic damage, you're talking about speeding up the construction of highways. I know a section of 4.8 kilometers long that you've been building for five years, and that's inside, it started then and should be completed in 2005. The economic damage is due to the fact that they could collect tolls, traffic safety at 15 kilometers, the danger is increased because the road changes once from highway to highway, and again to highway. And here's the thing. You're just playing tricks. The Lord knows, but does not say one word in favour of expediting this conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. Desire, colleague just Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I'll back the amendment myself. Indeed, very large reserves are still in these budgets, and for 2008 and 2009. The government has made a very wasteful and irresponsible decision, as I mentioned earlier, to build those eight government palaces with a budget of more than 200 million euros, even buying land and some facilities for eight government new palaces. 275 mio could also say a failed project for the manufacture of armoured personnel, so that these 15m euros, which would have been redeployed from certain items of the Ministry of Defence, will not have a negative impact on the operational functioning and maintenance of the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces, as we have already found. However, these funds could be used to speed up the construction of roads in our country. And yet another fear I would like to address, which one of the Members mentioned earlier, is that if we win the elections and form the government, we will abolish or disband the Slovenian Army. Let me comfort the honourable Member and assure him that, as a Member of the Social Democrats and also as a Captain of the Slovenian Army, the Social Democrats will never dissolve the Slovenian Armed Forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u103	My friend Bevk, thank you very much. Now we'll sleep better. Member Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. The section that Anderlič had in mind refers to the route of the motorway past Trebnje and really very large, many years have passed since the construction of this section was somehow planned. However, good experts know that stalling was actually mainly from the background, because it was not an interest to build a highway and that the money was diverted to other areas. And there were also many private interests of individuals, especially from the Trebnje area and also some influential individuals. However, this government cut down the Gordy knot in 2005 as soon as possible, decided how this route would take place, and at that time all the procedures that have led to the fact that the construction process is now under way. It means that work will now begin and, according to expectations, this highway connection is expected to end somewhere at the end of 2008 or in the beginning or the first half of 2009. This government has actually done everything in its power, provided the means, produced the documentation and is now just ahead of us to make it happen. So this thing is practically now in the final field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Member Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u106	Of course, this time I was convinced that there was only a chance that you could not read your thoughts, because so far you were supposed to know them. No, I didn't mean that much. Mr. Grill, you're home from there. I don't. And if the country is rapidly building highways in a way that builds 35 kilometers of highway, picks up a toll for these 35 kilometers, leaves five kilometers dangerous, ordinary roads in between, and then another ten kilometers of highway is built and opened, instead of these five kilometers and this is Hazel - Kronovo, Mr. Grill, I have to explain this to you because you are living in the wrong way, and these 4.8 kilometers are being built for the fifth year. This is a very dangerous section because when you get off the highway on a regular road and again on a highway from a regular road of five kilometres and then calculate, at least in these three years as far as the delay is concerned, not the acceleration of construction, for which all documents, money and everything, including European funds, as much as the state or Dars lost in traffic of 20,000 vehicles per day, is a 15km section, which because it does not have the full conclusion, cannot be collected. Well, as I say very sovereignly, it's also dangerous to drive after the part where this thing changes. There are gentlemen here who know these things well. Well, I guess sometimes the Gordy knot has been cut, now it's cut, but this government probably won't be able to do what was said to be done at an accelerated rate by 2008.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Member Jakob the Presbyterian has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I have to correct my colleague Tank that the national programme was adopted in this National Assembly in February, I think that in 2004, it is not May, certainly not May, because in May I was not in the previous coalition government, but we are O. [[...]] K., well, I'm not going to discuss how we got out. But, therefore, in February, and I still claim that this national programme is good if it is not being thoroughly corrected now. It is true, however, that, with Slovenia's entry into the European Union on 1 May 2004, it is essential that it is more than planned and increased freight traffic on certain relations, and therefore I welcome already the Government's decision, where I did no longer participate in the autumn 2004 in order to speed up the area of Prekmurje, and this Government and the Ministry and Dars also follow the conclusions of this Government and the proposals of this Ministry. Now, here has already been mentioned a section past Trebnje, it is true that if you want to build the entire Slovenian road cross, but when you finish it you also have to build a 1 kilometer, but I am glad that these places took place in the space in the previous, essential years, because today putting a section into the space is almost impossible, I hope that you are following the discussions that are in individual municipalities, in individual local communities even in villages, where I have not yet found at the third development axis, that someone on all of these, any smaller, large local community or community, would agree or at least give some conditions to agree on what location, no, most of the conclusions are made [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Member Srečko Hvauc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, we've been building this Slovenian highway cross for over 15 years, and it hasn't been built yet. This means that with all the plans that have been, that means that something was wrong, we're doing highways too slowly, the needs are much greater. I agree with my colleague, the President, that after entering the European Union, traffic has increased by 100%, 200% on some sections, if we are looking at freight traffic. And it can't be that way, people can't live normally, the economy doesn't function normally, and the highway needs to be built faster! For accelerated construction it is also necessary to find some additional resources and since it is a long-term project, projects for several generations, this government has decided to finance part of this highway construction also through debt. These debts will not be repaid by children or I don't know who, our third-generation heirs, will be reimbursed by Dars for the use of the road. Anyone who rides the highway will pay for it. My friend Anderlich mentioned that we've been building a section of the road for five years. This coalition has been building highways for three years, if they were to be built for five years, it would probably have been eliminated by a number of scrolls. Unfortunately this is not the case, but we are trying to maximize this construction and also for sections for which there was no means in the programme adopted by the previous coalition, say, Slivnica-Drazenci, we have provided funds and highways already being built and the suburban motorway is being built and we will soon be able to reopen new sections and this is what Slovenia needs. I will not vote in favour of this amendment, because, in fact, it is not adequately prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u111	Thank you. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against this amendment, as will my colleague and my colleagues. I would like to remind all of you that, just a while ago, the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances, which was then led by our colleague mag. Milan M. Cwickl, identified and studied today's system of financing the construction of highways. This system has been developed by the Ministry of Transport. And at that time, the commission, which still bears the commercial name "The Exercise Commission", agreed with the sustainability of the financing system for the construction of Slovenian motorways. Those who do not agree and oppose this system today also oppose the construction of, for example, the foothill of the highway. And those who oppose it, all of them I would like to invite to sit on the main road of G1-3 Lendava-Maribor for a day and count 5,000 or even several more trucks. It is true that a new situation arose on 1 May 2004 and that Europe has actually filled us with trucks. It is also true that this government was aware that maintenance of state roads was neglected. That's not a critique! There must have been more money in the past for highways. On state roads, however, we have the situation according to the Ministry of Transport last year, which requires 800 billion previous Slovenian Tolars to be repaired. I am pleased, however, that Mr Cvikl is also talking about the European award received by the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, when discussing or explaining his vote on this amendment. That's a good thing for me. Unfortunately, I believe that this pains Mr. Squeak because he will never receive such a prize.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Stanek.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. We've been building the highway cross for a long time on that old foundation from the Yugoslav Paradise and now these 15 years, and it's really a cross with it. We've decided on a system like this, I believe it could be better, but it will be built, sooner or later, because it's heading toward the end. For that section that colleague Anderlich was talking about, I'm driving myself down that section from Krske, that's 4.8 kilometers of ordinary road and then back on the highway. I was always surprised that he was not made because he was an influential man and had been in positions of responsibility for 12 years before that he did not include him in the budget. I believe it's going to be done next year and it's going to be open next year. That's what I believe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Member Tomaž Šteba has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. First of all, one thought you can read today in the drawing of Evening Bob: "What better way to save your whole life, end up buying a house and just before you die moving into this house or taking credit, repaying this loan your whole life and just before you die paying off the loan and using this house?" The thought refers both to the government courts mentioned as well as to Slovenian motorways. First, about government courts. If the Government has decided to build its premises instead of high rents and uses them and repays the loan, instead of continuing to pay the rent and it will never come to this property, which is then only to be maintained. It's similar in highways. Now we live in a place where some people had roads over 70 years ago. For a while, unfortunately, we were in this room too, and now we have joined together with this Union. And, gentlemen, all of it, so do you. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] rents and not government premises, such as the system of construction of motorways, especially tollings, smells very bad or smells like tacwonisation. [[...]] If this amended national programme was taken seriously by this Government in 2004 and is trying to complete it before the deadline of 2013, the former governments were completely behind schedule and were not serious with these national programmes. Toll system and pseudo [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The concessionaire who collects the tolls, Dars, is an excess of non-technical, non-systemic, non-proprietary and, in fact, Tycunised toll collection system. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Madam President. As for the highway cross, hand to heart, this wall has been on the road for 30 years and I believe it will not be completed nor for the mandate of this government, "kamoli", as we have seen, has not been completed for the mandate of the previous government. But at this amendment, I think we are talking very much in general - all about motorways, tolls, trucks coming from Prekmurje, toll systems. Let me just stop at some points. The tolling system, the change this government caught at the beginning of its mandate - none of this. Still the same system! You cut me from Maribor to Ljubljana every day for every two miles in that way. And you haven't changed anything! As far as the trucks are concerned. A number of SNS initiatives have come up with ways to solve the problem of freight traffic in the Republic of Slovenia, but you did not want to listen! Not only did you not want to listen, but now you're out of your mind! The only mystery in which I am now in this amendment is that, when one of the government MPs mentioned that the amendment was not supported by the coalition because it was "something systemicly wrong". And if something with this amendment is systematically wrong, it must be explained immediately, because then it should not be in the review - and I am interested in what this systemic error is so that we do not vote on something that is systematically wrong. Let me explain what is systemically wrong with this amendment, so that Members and Members are better able to decide on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? My friend Christian Janc, I think you've already given an explanation, so I can't give you two words for it. Unless you've changed your mind on the basis of the debate. [[No, no, ……]] Then there's a word for Commissioner Squeakl.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u120	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I spoke earlier on behalf of the Group of Members, but now I speak on my behalf. I want to say, for the first time, that this amendment is completely systemic. I would also like to say this, and I agree with my fellow President, that the fundamental decision to accelerate the highway programme was the result of an 80% increase in traffic within one month immediately after the entry into the European Union due to the Barcelona-Kiev corridor, which then became key, remains and must remain one of the key European corridors. To all those who talk about the appropriate awards of finance ministers, this is: popular finance ministers are not very good for the health of citizens. And everyone watching these awards knows that if I go abroad and borrow a billion, two, three billion euros, and these awards are given to commercial bankers, the prizes will be very high on any wall of finance ministers. So understand this comment I made as sarcastic. The problem is bigger than we think. The debt of the Republic of Slovenia is currently 25% of GDP. If European statistics estimate that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the current one, has not kept the 2003 promise, one change in the statistical methodology may increase the debt by an additional 10 percentage points. This, by the way, has a direct effect on other interest rates and so on. So you're playing with things you might not even know about. I don't blame you, but I resent the Minister of Finance. That's why it's a bad policy. Accept the amendment to fix it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Question, colleague Kristian Janc, according to my record you have performed, but if you are confident that you are not, and you know best, of course I give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sure I haven't talked about this amendment. I will simply not support this amendment because I do not see any problems with the 2008 financial plan with regard to the highway cross programme, which we have not built for 15 years, but 30 years in Slovenia, and I hope we will also complete it for the most part in 2008, so at least the plan is made and the resources are provided. So the pace is extremely severe, we believe, and I think that the performers will also do this work within the expected time frame. But there's one problem here again that you want to take the Slovenian Army again, you're saying you want to have the Slovenian Army, you're taking it right there. And the other thing that worries me a little is tolling. 1995 was the conclusion of the National Assembly, until now we have not settled this problem and there may be a problem here with Darsa where to draw the source of credit for the highway cross, if we do not settle this problem as soon as possible, as we wish - and that is what we are about in this National Assembly a lot - fair and fair for all road users. Unfortunately, that is not yet today, and as it turns out, there will be no such thing for a while. And that's what I'm worried about returning credits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We can go to the vote. Thank you. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, for 19, for 42 [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are still within the framework of the user of the Ministry of Transport. We are moving to the sub-programme Airport and airport infrastructure. Proposed amendments - Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 18, 42 vs. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. And we are moving to a new user with code 2415 - Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. Under the sub-programme Management and the ongoing maintenance of state roads, two amendments have been tabled. The first one on which we will vote is proposed by Mr Dusan Kumer. Explanation. I ask for an explanation to be submitted on behalf of the groups of Members. Comrade Tanko or colleague Jerovšek? None. Comrade Tank, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. In our Group of Members, we will support this amendment, even though it is taken by a user who will violate the rights of asylum seekers or asylum seekers. I do not understand how the parliamentary group, which has so much rights for those who enter the country, has even worked very hard in one of the previous laws to give these asylum-seekers their allowance, in which case it is taking the funds from that basic item for the maintenance of asylum cases. And I must warn you that this is, in fact, some kind of hypocrisy again, some kind of duplicity. However, we will support this amendment because I think it is necessary, as it allocates funds to an area in a very neglected part of Slovenia, which has been extremely affected by the historical situation and other circumstances, and despite the adoption of the Green Border Act and we have significantly increased the funds for the correction, improvement of infrastructure capacity in this area, is a backlog which has brought a markedly large proportion to this coalition. It makes sense for us to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? My friend Milan M. Squeak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u126	The Group of Social Democrats supports its Member's amendment and we are pleased that the SDS Group, with the wrong explanation, also supports this amendment. First of all, I must strongly reject the thesis and, obviously, the Member does not understand the completely new methodology of the budget. It is taken from the sub-programme Implementation of foreign policy, and this sub-programme also includes some too expensive lunch for the minister of this or that or something else. The implementation of foreign policy does not mean a reduction in funding for asylum activities, which has enabled the abolition of the amendment on items related to the Law on Foreign Policy. Mr Kumar proposed an amendment to support work in the field of the Road Directorate. The problem with this amendment and all subsequent amendments is that, regardless of what we will accept here today, the Government has the full possibility of adopting, implementing or not, in accordance with the third point of today's meeting of the National Assembly. Therefore, the logic of rejecting the amendment by the Government, which is different from the logic of the Member or the leader of the parliamentary group, is not understandable. It says something like this: The amendment is technically feasible, so it is possible to do this road, but we do not support it because it interferes with the spending rights provided for the operators of other programmes. This government has put the world wrong. Budget authority is in the National Assembly, we tell you what the rights of the programmes are, and it is therefore right that Mr Tanko says to the Minister of Transport, even if from another political party "you must accept this!" However, Mr Tanko, you must be consistent, in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget you must also say "Mr Minister, and you must not terminate this programme," but this is not the case with the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. Therefore, my further discussion with the amendments that will follow is very simple. We can vote in favour of all amendments, we can vote against, given the dictions in the currently closed Budget Implementation Act, this is totally irrelevant. I therefore propose, Members and Members, that, with effect from 1 January 2008, if you want this to be realized, you follow closely what they are doing in the Roads Directorate. Only then will your wishes really be realized in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Ambassador Tone Anderlič will speak on behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u128	This amendment is also a serious problem because it is structured in this way: I have no objection and would support it to provide more money for roads, but on the other hand, where everything is being taken, and because it has been revealed by the leader of the largest parliamentary group, that they will take those few asylum seekers to account for this amendment, which they did not want to ensure by law before the day. There's nothing here but conspiring and taking the others who and therefore support this amendment, not to build this road. [[...]] Again, the question is the same as one of the previous amendments, where I do not know whether this international assistance will be reduced in the part where demining is involved and so on, because several metres of roads will be more in Slovenia. That is why I will not vote in favour or against this amendment, but also in the Group of Members, we will define ourselves in our own way because I speak on behalf of the Group of Members. I am sorry, however, that through such an approach - here I believe in the nobility of this amendment by Mr Kumr, but to see this amendment on the other hand in this light, that, in fact, this amendment creates an opportunity to sharpen even the weakest, but I think it is a serious exercise, which is why I do not want to participate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u129	Thank you. Member Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u130	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the inaccuracies which have been expressed here that the funds for these amendments are taken only by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the implementation of foreign policy. The 14th and 15th pages are clear; the five budget consumers are provided with funds for this amendment, including through the provision of weapons and infrastructure capabilities. I understand that colleague Anderlič, who is the president of the Defence Committee, cannot support the amendment that follows this reduction of funds, although his delegation has just pointed out that we are giving too much money for defence and that I may not know how many apartments, hospitals and I do not know what else to build. So this is the populist conjecture that, in my opinion, in this debate, could be highlighted to the most perverse extent - what you are constantly reading to us. Surely all consumers need the resources provided in the budget. It is only about whether a smart assessment can ensure spending rights for all those eligible for these funds. And personally, I think that for this amendment, given that it has structured a summary of five consumers, that it has dispersed what is being taken away from someone so that some project can lead to the end, that it is the right path and is not bad. Otherwise, of course, no amendment can be accepted; it cannot be accepted if we agree to another philosophy. That's why I support him. And speaking of which, I'd like to say just one more word in connection with these famous highways. It's not good that signals come from this house about toll irritations. That's not gonna happen. We know that the problem is too small to capture because we do not have a completed tolling project in the freeway, but it will not be an incentive. It will be that this toll will be more justly covered. For the sake of [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] About 63%. And the signals of the embezzlement at this point, whatever it is, are not good from this house. I support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u131	Thank you. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will support this amendment. I am surprised, however, that in the parliamentary group where the proposer comes from, they do not know whether they have agreed where they are taking it from. In fact, it is clearly stated that one of those to whom the Ministry of the Interior will be taken is sub-programme 08011701 - is the area of asylum seekers. It is not for three weeks since, of course, everything was wrong, that the law we have adopted is a single EU directive that everything is wrong in this area. Now you have yourself found that Slovenia can only give a default in this area and that the rights of asylum seekers, which are superstandard in Slovenia according to this EU recommendation, can only take some money from this sub-item so that you can regulate certain road infrastructure. It's not true what we heard earlier that it's not true. This is true, this is clearly stated, this has also been clearly stated on the Committee and in the committee's explanation is exactly what I have just told you. I'll back him up. However, I would ask you nicely, although I am in breach of the rules of procedure, I admit that the second time we discuss the issue of asylum rights, you will not be speaking the exact opposite of what you are doing. You know that saying, "And in parts we shall know them." But I will support this because I believe that what Mr Kumer has proposed, that object he proposes, is worthy of support and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Member Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm going to support this amendment myself because I think it's wise to support smart amendments. On the other hand, because this coalition will now support the same number of amendments by half twelve, as the opposition did when the entire term of office was between 2000 and 2004 - that is two amendments. The proposal for the 2001 budget of the opposition's amendments was 59, supported - nothing. Draft budget 2002 33 amendments adopted by the amendments - the opposition zero.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u135	My friend Miro Friday, please stick to the subject at least. We don't have a theme year 2001, 2003 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u136	That's the subject! [[...]] We have now supported exactly 2 amendments of the opposition, just as the opposition has supported in the previous term of the amendment of today's coalition. And, of course, in the previous term, the SDS Group tabled a bunch of amendments and was not supported. In short, I support this amendment, and if another smart amendment is proposed, if they convince me to do so, I will also support another amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u137	Thank you too, Comrade Friday. The next one has the word Happy Hvauc. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I must say that the applicant's explanation for convincing me and for the content of the amendment or for the purpose of the amendment, I have no problems. But I'm beginning to doubt my decision when I listen to the gentlemen of the opposition. First, Mr. Squeakl says, "It doesn't matter how we vote, whether we're in favour or against, whether we support the amendment or not. You know, that's not serious. If you want us to support your amendment, then we expect you to be confident that support is needed. We listen to stories, "you didn't support any of our amendments, you run us over like a machine" and things like that. But when we vote when we are supposed to vote on your amendments, you say that it is totally out of the question, how we vote. That's the first part of the problem. The other thing is. It makes sense that when we talk about the amendment - we have to take it somewhere. We've got to get somewhere. [[Comrade Zagorac, please calm down! If your client friend doesn't remind you that there's some order in this respectable council.]] When we have to take it, there's a new problem. If the opposition already agrees with the amendments, the problem is that we do not take the right place. I'm asking you nicely, you have to take it somewhere! And it seems to us that in this way we will fulfill this desire and need, so I will, despite my concerns, support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u139	Thank you very much. You are right in the part where you say that the most unnecessary debate is precisely with those amendments that find exceptional majority support. However, Member Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment for the following reasons. For the first time, because I constantly and always support more resources for the state network of Slovenian roads that need this additional money. This is also fortunate in this amendment, because of the five items - it will also be possible to survive those five items. However, where they take only one item, they undermine the concept of a particular budgetary user, it is significantly more difficult. As far as Mr Squeakl has mentioned it, I think it is without concern that all the decisions to be adopted by the National Assembly and all the amendments to be imposed by the Ministry and the Directorates will be implemented in accordance with their deadline and in accordance with their Members in the coming year 2008. [[...]] That's why there's no worries. It is important that we decide here to obtain additional resources and all the resources provided will certainly be implemented by the Directorate in all the projects envisaged in the 2008 budget and later in 2009. Therefore, this concern is completely unnecessary in order to be unfulfilled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u141	Thank you very much. In turn, I invite Ambassador Stanislav Brenčič to the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u142	Thank you very much. By the way, I will not support this amendment. If we classify amendments as smart and not smart, of course, it is a smart amendment to where it gives. There's not enough money on this item, never. But I understand the government is opposed to this amendment. At a time of apparent high inflation, we are taking measures in the field of regulation in the fiscal policy system. At a time when you'd drill with a drill in your knee to accidentally give humanity some asylum guy a pocketbook so he could call his mother on the phone, and we'll take it here. At a time when we are taking over the Presidency or leadership of the European Union - we are also taking on consular services. As far as I know this matter, and I know something, they are already jamming and pronouncing our embassies about incontinence, "to carry out" all the tasks through the scope of the finances they have. And at this time, when we know what the transport situation is, we are taking it from the area of traffic control. Look, the approach to this amendment is the pure mirror of perversion. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the government's clients in this term. [[...]] And, of course, I am from all the moral content that I have, the kind of conduct that I can't support, not because of it. The amendment is unwise.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will support the amendment myself, but mainly for reasons such as those set out in the explanatory statement, as suggested by my esteemed colleague Dusan Kumer, but not for reasons such as those mentioned by some of my predecessors. I very much respect the fact that representatives of one of the government's parties will take into account the Government's recommendations and insist on this, while those who change overnight will not do so. One more appeal. Speaking of amendments, I myself will be in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the moment. We are talking about an amendment, we are talking about a concrete amendment, but not about how much this government has supported so far, as Mr Petek has said, which I do not know why he has spoken, except that he has been able to say that we have already supported as much as the previous government in four years. That is why you have been given this mandate to be better than the previous government and not worse, and not worse, and not worse, and such nonsense. Let's talk, please, about the amendments. This will save us time and money in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'd almost forget about you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u146	I'll explain my voice. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u147	He spoke only for the time being on behalf of the Group of Members and has the right to explain his own voice. Let's leave him that right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We've got some weird calls now instead of the pressure, but that's fine. First of all, to all those who are troubled by the contents of this amendment, where these funds go. Mr Dusan Kumer said that it was a road in places where the government is obviously not too home, so he proposed this amendment. As for the explanations that he will take 100,000 euros from asylum seekers, let me say that this is not true. Mr Kumer suggests that from the budget sub-programme Internal Affairs Regulation, which amounts to €19 million in budget changes, the government has increased it by €970,000 to take 100,000 here. The items on this programme are salaries, material costs and so on, but since you are already challenging us, this Government has taken EUR 453,000 in respect of the adopted budget in the supply of immigrants in anticipation of the adoption of the law. So, you say that Mr. Kumer, who says, "Take 19.9 million from the entire programme from salaries, material costs, from the state border from investments from state authorities 100,000 euros," you say that his intention is to take away from asylum seekers, but you yourself have proposed, formally at the government, a reduction in the supply of migrants from a million 973,000, to 453,000 less, to a million 520 000. And I must say that you did it correctly because you proposed a law that reduces those rights at the same time. So much for duality, gentlemen. Be careful when you prepare a text, because it says so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 7. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment under the sub-programme Management and the ongoing maintenance of state roads, proposed by Bogdan Barovic. Can we get to the vote? Comrade Gulic, on behalf of the Group of Members? Here you go, in your own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u150	Dear colleagues, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! It is an important road in the municipality of Trbovlje, but the road is regional, namely the link between Zasavje and Savinja Valley. In fact, in the last 10 years, several roads have been arranged there so that in some ways a stronger connection, more frequent, between the Savina Valley or more precisely between Prebold, Shampave and Trublja has been established. And this section is more burdensome than originally planned, so the damage to this section is also significantly greater. It is a road that runs through the city itself and thus becomes much more dangerous and, of course, can be fatal. I therefore propose that you support this amendment. But it's not that big a number either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 41. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. We have 54 amendments under this subsection. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of drafter Geza Juban. Comrade Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I have not tabled this amendment to seek any political points with it. Political points may have been sought by representatives of the Ministry of Transport and the Environment, especially the Roads Directorate, who agreed with the municipality to reconstruct this road years ago. And nothing has been done in all this time. You can monitor in these days the various media that provide the public with information about the state that is here, and the intention of the municipality, what it will do if this reconstruction does not continue. The amendment covers a smaller amount, a moderate amount, with which at least the reconstruction of this road would continue in a way that might lead to the completion of the second year - pardon 2009. And it would be wise for this amendment to be confirmed and not to have unnecessary problems in this section, which is one of the state roads, despite the first section of the highway, is heavily burdened and there is traffic chaos here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Of course, I will support the amendment of my esteemed colleague Juban. However, I would like to draw attention to some paradox that occurs throughout the entire sub-chapter or sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. All Members, who will take into consideration the 2008 amendments, will find that in all the amendments, and I will not separate the roads, I stress once again, in all the amendments tabled by members of the opposition, the explanation of the Government appears: "The amendment is technically feasible, but the Government does not support it because it interferes with the rights of use provided for the implementation of other programmes." I think it's very lazy of the government that she went to all the opposition MPs to do "copy pasta". But we have to get somewhere if we're gonna give it to someone. And another paradox that appears. The amendments you support and come from the coalition don't say that, but they take it from someone. However, the paradox is even greater, in some cases even on the same lines as the opposition MPs, but it does not say so. It seems very clear to me, given that it is the electoral year and the budget of this year, that the government has gone so unsystemic; at least I could look at where there is a road and which is really necessary for reconstruction, which it does not. So I will support myself, as I say, because I do not separate roads into coalition or opposition, but I believe that everyone in good faith is an amendment in this budget and everyone needs to be restored. That's why I'm going to support all these amendments that talk about additional road construction. But once again, no matter how much you boast, how much better this government is than the previous government is, it's so lazy that it couldn't even change the explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. [[The ad in the hall.]] Comrade Pukšič, please! Buddy Pukšič, please behave, come on! You'll talk when you sign up for this and stand up. Thank you very much. We're voting. There were 65 Members and Members present; 22 votes in favour of the proposed amendment, 38 votes in favour. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one is not accepted. We move on to the amendment under order number 2, proposed by Dr. Mitja Slavinec. Comrade Gez Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u156	Since the colleague here is not present, you can determine from the examination that we are from the premurk work, I think we have only tabled three or four amendments. Except for the ones where something's really wrong. And if any man walk on the Sabbath of Murski, he sees that in one part of the intersection with the railroad is all laid bare; but in the sabbath of Murski is now the chaos of the road. And when this part's closed, it's gonna get a lot worse. A highway that may be a year from now, of course, will not solve this matter. And there are also funds here that might speed up the construction of this intersection so that things can be resolved at a faster pace, and it would be good for us to accept this amendment. I don't mind because my colleague Horvat also has an amendment, of course, my desire and support to be accepted, but it would be nice not to look at it that way, but to assess the situation as it is outside and to support it in spite of everything at least. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I say that I will support this amendment by myself and by the vast majority of my colleagues. For it is an out-of-war crossing in the Sabbath of Murski. Activities are planned to start only in 2011 at this facility, but the current traffic safety situation is such that they simply do not allow such a delay to start construction. That is why I feel that the amendment provides minimum resources and provides for the start of works in the next calendar year. So, on our part, support for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u159	Thank you very much, and so do you. And the word is given by the Member of the Victory of the Elinčič Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll support this amendment, too. I don't know why you're taking Murska Sobota away from central Slovenia like that. From the Ministry of Environment and Space, we have received some strange hints that Murska Sobota will also be among the four places where you will have to pay a taxi to get into the city because it is too polluted. One wonders if they even know where Murska Sobota is at the Ministry, but when they give Murska Sobota among the four largest cities in Slovenia, we can know that other cities are significantly larger. If we look at Mursko Sobota, we see that it's a center - actually it's hard to say that it's a real center. Maybe it's a central street, not a center. And I am, in fact, concerned that again in this budget, what has actually been happening since 1992 has been happening since then, that only the governing structure, the favoured amendments, are always and everywhere, and the others are being deleted. One wonders whether we are here because of all of Slovenia or because of political interests. It seems that most of the politicians who sit in here are not important to the development of Slovenia, the development of places outside where they are from home, but they are interested only and only in the position they will gain, the votes they will gain in their own place. They forget, however, that Milczynski has already written in his Butalci that it is still necessary to look a little longer than his fence around the manure plant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u161	Thank you very much. We can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 3 - proponent Ljubo Germič. Comrade Germich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We're talking about road G1-1 connecting Dravograd to Maribor. There is a bridge in Selnica ob Drava, which is actually a very dark point in this transport connection, which can be even darker in the future. We speak for these reasons. In the last period, due to increased traffic, there have been a number of accidents in this part. Second, the pedestrian crossing across this bridge is in extremely poor condition. And the third reason for the rehabilitation of this part of the road is that along high waters, with high rainfall, permeability under this bridge does not, of course, guarantee and cause damage to the surrounding settlement due to flooding. I therefore propose that in 2008 all the documents for the preparation of the rehabilitation, which would then take place in 2009 and 2010, should be drawn up in order to prevent even more tragic events from taking place on this part of the road, which could also lead to worse both material and human consequences. In view of the fact that, with the support of the various amendments, the coalition can also deny the Government's arguments that the amendment is not acceptable because it interferes with the rights of use envisaged for realisation. That means the coalition has a different behavior than the government does. And given that we note that these are very important sections, which are also life-threatening for road users, of course, I expect that the coalition will be able to assess this situation so much that it will be able to demantle the Government, as it was demandated in a number of other areas when amendments are adopted, which say that the problem is that the amendment is good, but the problem is where the amendment applicants are taking funds from. Given that this is 100 000 euros under the budget for the year [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] 2008, of course, we expect that, within the framework of the content of the amendment's justification, the coalition will also be able to achieve so much power that it will also remove the Government from this amendment and support this amendment. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u163	Thank you very much. My word is Milan Petk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u164	Thank you, Vice President. I myself join the call to support an amendment that relatively few funds are being transferred from one field to another. It is a very important connection between Maribor or the part of transit that passes from Maribor to the Russian side and then through Ruš to the side towards Slovenj Gradc or Dravograd. It is a bridge in one depth that is truly in such a bad condition that it deserves a very quick intervention. Therefore, in the second year, nothing but the preparation of technical documentation, possibly preparatory work, is foreseen for all else with the 2009 amendment. I drive on this road several times, more by bicycle than by car and since there are elections next year, I invite you to allow me to apply alive as a candidate for the national elections, because there may be something happening to me. And so if you want to have a good candidate, a candidate for the election, listen to this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u165	Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u166	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In this National Assembly, we talked a lot about schools, built them, and talked about the safe way to school. This Bistrica stream divides because it comes from the hills, one large part of this congregation in two parts, and the only passage that allows children access to the Selnica Primary School, which has been built here with state money and built by it, is this bridge. I have to say, because I know that this bridge really has those two little strips for the foot so destroyed that the concrete is completely decomposed and it's a miracle that there hasn't been an accident. The fence is in such bad shape as to fail. And when it comes to freezing, this bridge comes down from one crevice and goes straight to another crevice up. That's why the accidents there were quite common. And I think if we've been so good at other amendments that we've said that we're fighting for children to have the safest way to school, including this black spot that's on this path of children that's east of this stream, but the school is on the west side to somehow remove this point, so it would be good to support this amendment. In addition to general transport safety, we also provide safety for the youngest road users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u167	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting on the amendment. There are 60 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 33. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the 4th amendment proposed by Mr Samo Bevk. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! An amendment with a similar content, which I have tabled in the 2009 budget, has been adopted and withdrawn by the parent committee. Thus, with this amendment for 2008, I propose that this investment start next year and not until 2009. It is the most problematic section of the state road Keltika within the 4th development axis, from Idrija to Godovic, to the Zala. This amendment introduces a new budget item at this section, namely the beginning of the construction of the third band. In fact, it is very difficult to get ahead of ourselves in this part of the race, it is very difficult to meet, especially trucks among themselves, buses and trucks and so on. I have pointed out many times in the National Assembly these problems regarding the Celtics and the 4th Development Axis, which is the only road for this area, for Idrija, to the link with Central Slovenia and the motorway cross. I therefore propose that this amendment be adopted. A third lane would also allow for safe overtaking. Because it happens many times, and in practice I have already experienced that from Idria to Logatca to the highway can not be rushed normally, not even by a passenger car, not even by a bus or truck, which is very large, driving the products of our top economic companies into the world. So I suggest you support this amendment and allow some normal route from Idria to the highway. I will also support the amendment, which touches another black spot on this road. This is an amendment which speaks of the establishment of a new project on this road, from Želenje to Dolenje Trebuša. This is also a very dangerous part. They tried years ago [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This situation is solved with traffic lights. [[...]] I hope that if both amendments are accepted, the road will be more durable and transport safer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u169	Thank you. Does anyone else want to do it on their own? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 37. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the vote the fifth amendment proposed by the coalition. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u170	Thank you very much. We will support the amendment of the coalition. The reason is very simple. We believe that it is right that the National Assembly, that is, Members and not only the Government, achieve the right ranking of priorities. But we are missing, and here I am joining some members of the opposition, explaining to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia why it is right to accept this amendment. The government has made a great deal of effort to interpret the previous amendment and I regret that it has not been accepted, that an investment project will be prepared somewhere in 2009 and that it is not possible to devote a million euros to the proposal of a fellow Member Bevko. What's interesting and why I came to this amendment on behalf of the parliamentary group is to ask myself, do we have a government here that has double criteria? The government is working very hard to reject the opposition's amendment, but the role of members of the coalition does not seem important and does not provide any substantive explanation. Why double the criteria? I thought that Members of the ruling coalition would stand up for this, but obviously we will not experience this. Thus, there are still several such cases of amendments below and it would be considered that, in principle, the National Assembly would commit the Government to give a clear reasoned opinion to the amendments of the Parliamentary Coalition. And I think you're also Members of the ruling coalition. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] They deserve it, even if it's a positive opinion. [[...]] It's necessary to say, by the government, why you're in, if you've already told, like the government, why you're against it. But if you don't dare say you're in favour, because the Members know more than the government does, then I understand the embarrassment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u171	Thank you. Does anyone want to do it on their own? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the 6th amendment, which is also proposed by the coalition. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Mr Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u172	Well, now we're there! This is what cries out, which will be in the eyes - the government that advocates technological development, takes from technological development items and puts on roads. Okay. Let the roads build, but it's the hypocrisy of the first kind and more. You have already reduced the funds already and so much from the adopted budget for 2008 by more than 3 billion. This is what I'm talking about - of course it's a series of amendments, I'm not just talking about this figure that's here, and I'm saying that there's a few million euros for these purposes. Only one less vehicle, for which you do not know what you will need, which you ordered three days ago - 40 million euros. Only one less vehicle. And those who tell me to fight for a defense tolar - yes! Of course, for technological development, for the modernisation of the equipment of the Slovenian Army, for the modernisation of systems, because today development is very fast and we have to follow it. From this title is stupidity and unconvincingly your statements about how you support science and technological development when you take money from this item and put it on the road. One less armor! For example, the ministry signs 12 armoured vehicles, then during the call, because they find that some money is missing there, it says, "Ah, because we're going to have 10." So, you have the opportunity not to buy, given that the number of soldiers will be reduced by 20%, that these vehicles will not be able to drive anyway, that you will have to carry out this debate - yesterday's statement by Chief of Staff is that more soldiers have left this year than they did. Just to ensure the growth that this year should be in line with the plans that we have in common, I think that one 500 soldiers. I say: everything from technological development will be rejected, but you can spend money on building road infrastructure, you know, because you can take it wherever you want. And here's your real, really double morale. I've been listening to two days about science and technological development, and you're taking it directly here. This science and technological development is also in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u173	Thank you. In your own name? Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Well, I have to comfort my colleague Anderlič, my colleague Anderlič doesn't have to be worried, I don't have to worry about these funds, so I support this amendment, and the technological development of the Slovenian Army will go on. Four times that amount of money was saved when we did not miss your euphoria when you wanted to cancel the order of patrills and replace it with a less modern product of rags, where the difference was 12 billion Slovenian tolars or 50 million euros. We have saved four times as much as we have saved here with all these amendments in the entire budget of the redistribution. Therefore, do not worry, the means for the technological development of the Slovenian Army will be, despite the acceleration of the construction of certain roads - guaranteed - and therefore I think that these amendments are worth supporting. However, if we had made a different decision after all those extraordinary meetings, there would have been a lack of money and a technologically poorer product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u175	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Well, today, in the context of explanations of vote, the largest coalition party reported to the Social Democrats that from one point of view for science and technological development, we are putting on another and you have disgustedly rejected the amendments. I have counted, the coalition amendments relating to roads, which are allocated from the 5th to the 36th Amendments, in 17 cases they are taken from the Defence Ministry, science and technological development, while some others, in most cases, are taken from the main Road Transport and Infrastructure Programme and are transferred under the Investment Maintenance and Construction Programme of State Roads. So they'll take it somewhere to get the coalition amendments through. It's nice and right for people to have roads to drive well and safely, but then it's rude not to support amendments that defend a safe trip to school, and you say that your children and your family are holy. What a hoax that is! I know these amendments will be accepted, and it doesn't matter if I don't support them. I'm not going to support them because of your misbehavior, because of your duality and because you really only think about voters, but you don't think about people. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u177	Thank you. Please, please! Mr. Milan Petek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u178	Thank you. I too am speaking for the reasons we have now heard twice. It is completely incomprehensible that this incoherence, which stems from these amendments, takes on the item Technological Development in the Defence System, when on the other hand we listen to the criticisms of those who may even have come to the same line. Let me stress that the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia has been very careful not to interfere with its amendments to this item, and you will not find an item that would take on Technological Development because we know how important it is, in fact, within the framework of the Lisbon Strategy or, if you want, Slovenian strategies for technological development. What the coalition has done here is hypocrisy - on the one hand it speaks and on the other hand it takes what it says is very positive. I'm calling about this amendment and nothing else about the others because it's pointless. We have a problem that we cannot support the amendment, which could actually have support if it were another source. That is why I predict that I will not advertise at the other points related to your amendments, nor will I support such amendments, which are taken from an item that is not appropriate. In all this, I wonder what's going on with the coalition. In this coalition you have a defence minister who once and recently swore loyalty to Janša and the confidant, but today you take it away, I don't know if with his consent or without his consent, the resources where he most probably wants, and I think that between you, thank God for Slovenia, are breaking up again. In order to finally break up!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u180	[[The ad in the hall.]] Yes, Mr. Sok, and I'll be there many times, believe me. Until then, as long as I have the hope that there will only be a word left to say today about how someone supports scientific and technological development is taking money, believe me, if there is anywhere, then all the military industries in the world and all the countries in the world that are working on it, how do they make sure that science and development are raised in these systems and that there are no huge investments, for example, in 25 unequipped armored cells; no one can explain now why we bought them. Only development and science and achievements have been in the past years - I have already mentioned in these two days, that there are some very encouraging achievements in this area within the Slovenian Army. And that needs to be continued. And science and technological development is not only a university that is produced for civil purposes by companies, but also in systems that are state-owned, which are an integral part of this country and, among other things, the Slovenian Army. And it is wrong to insist that you had the opportunity within the same ministry, with only one less vehicle to stand in the garage anyway, to cover all these amendments. For scientific and technological development, as has been said, there will be less money in the budget. And what was said before is not true, because it will be purchased abroad, packed and here perhaps deconserved and put on display. This is the scientific and technological development that you support - m Maybe the intermediaries involved in these transactions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I will support all the amendments of the coalition, and the others where, by knowing things, I know that it is a sustainable, sustainable reduction of a certain item. But also because I claim that at least 20% of the budget submitted to invest in the network of state roads is too small, given the state that it is. It is true, however, that the capacity of the State, regardless of economic growth and income, is again limited. And the other is asking me a question. This draft budget has been prepared by the Government, my Government. How did she draft the budget at the Ministry of Defence? From which area of science and development we are taking, now the government coalition from this budget is EUR 2 million 550 000. Is this even serious? Nothing like that has ever been allowed by any government coalition that bad. It bothers me. This is a completely irresponsible act, and I'm going to support all these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr. Trophynic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. It's about roads, it's about technological development. Certainly more or less important, it is likeness, a pre-election year, but it is a substantial increase. On Saturday, I asked the entire government's team, which defended the budget, on the committee, what was the new moment that the Government with its left hand could miss on the defence budget for one cobra or two and half million euros. They were quiet. Because I didn't want to embarrass them, I asked them, so put them in writing by Monday. There were no letters, and there was no letters on Monday either, but it was surprising yesterday that the Minister of Finance, in response to his colleague Anderlich, admitted that the Ministry of Defence was unable to spend these funds and that they therefore agreed to this move. Do you know what that is? It's a coup d'état and a mockery of it! At the time when the 2008 budget was submitted, the question is how many such budget lines are still available at the Ministry of Defence and at other ministries where the funds are parked for something else. That's the point of the problem. The mockery of the National Assembly, the mockery of content, and the unwillingness to answer when the matter has to be answered. Therefore, such amendments cannot be supported. Support means support and participation in misleading the National Assembly in proposing a document as important as the budget. This is a serious substantive and procedural problem. That's not why I'm not going to back this up. That's why I'm not going to back this up.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And I will support this amendment. This is precisely because it is being taken into the field of technological development in the defence field. For where do we have technological developments in the defence field? We don't have a military industry, which is sad. You have accepted, gentlemen, the ban on the use of cluster munitions and bombs, which is total nonsense. That is to say, you have also closed down here the possibility of development where Slovenia has had the opportunity to develop, because you do not know the issues, what this is all about and what you are sitting on to some NGOs. You have adopted a ban on the use of anti-personnel mines in the National Assembly, which the Government then had to remove and, of course, removed quietly again because you do not know what this is all about. And so don't talk about technological development in the Slovenian Army because it's not there. We don't develop any additional radar systems, we don't develop any composite materials for airplanes, we don't develop any additional armored systems for thin and similar. In short, we are not actually developing anything in this area and it is therefore reasonable that this money, instead of disappearing to an unknown place, is used at least to build and repair road infrastructure in Slovenia. This way, people will have some of it. Once again, I support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I will abstain from this amendment myself. I think we also have serious budgetary planning problems, particularly Mr Brenčič, Mr Trofenik and some others. I am very sorry that the Government has decided, what I have said before, that it will not say anything in these amendments to the coalition, even though the decision of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is to obtain a written definition. And the written definition is not, "The government of the amendment supports," but the written definition is, "The government of the amendment supports because...". And here we are, of course, on very thin ice. The Minister of Finance's argument, which has been made, is not an argument. The finance ministers who talk about this, of course, underestimate their colleagues first, but above all, they are ignorant when they have prepared a budget with these colleagues. If they knew that the Minister of Defence couldn't afford this money, in saying, "use it," then of course we shouldn't have suggested it at all. I think the National Assembly of the following calls will have to be very concerned with the issue of different budget preparation. I have said before what we will do with these amendments is anyway irrelevant, given what we will say at the 3rd item of today's agenda, the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. Or the will in Slovenian politics to change and give greater influence to the National Assembly will depend on further development. It is true that in countries where the major public financial crisis occurred, Sweden, New Zealand, including the United States, parliaments, congresses received a greater role after these crises. And if we do that, then the discussions will be substantive, not about whether the Minister of Finance thinks the Minister of Defence is capable of anything else, or whether he's behind it. The President of the Government is not here to arbitrate between ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I must say that when I look at the budget of the Ministry of Defence myself, I see, like most others, that it is incredibly high. We hear many times that we are bound by NATO's regulations and that it has to be 2% of gross domestic product in the perspective, which is an incredible 800 million euros. I would expect that, under this budget, if anything, it would make sense to support technological development. The whole concept, which is already quite old, was to transfer to the technology agency, which is a separate agency, a whole range of programmes to finance technological development, and the idea was to have representatives of Slovenian companies who know best who are those technologies that are useful for the Slovenian economy on the administrative board of this agency. In this way, much or most of the defence spending would be directed towards technological development, which would directly benefit Slovenian companies. This concept, which at first, at least as I believed, followed by Minister Erjavec, has come to a sad end today when it is obvious that the technological development of money is being taken away, and more than enough money is being spent in the budget of the Slovenian Ministry of Defence to buy various armoured personnel, says those products produced by foreign countries with the same technological development that we do not want to finance. It is obviously in the interest of the Slovenian Ministry of Defence to obtain a military ship that will cover these 42 kilometers of Slovenian coast, for which is money, that makes sense. Obviously, there is no regret about the equipment of money, although we have 55 sailors available, and the ship itself needs more than 100 - there is no problem; but when it comes to good projects that can be implemented for technological development, you take money there. This is completely pointless, confused with some healthy logic, and therefore I cannot support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. I must say that I am a little surprised at the debates of some Members who somehow and themselves challenge the sovereignty of individual decisions. The government has actually submitted the budget, the budget has been under consideration, we have all had the opportunity to propose amendments and the coalitions have assessed that this can be done, as you are in the opposition. The fact is that we are also building on this sovereignty of the National Assembly to the Government, and with these amendments we are undoubtedly proving this. It is important, however, that we put resources into certain areas, especially transport infrastructure, through which we open up the regions. We are opening up areas and thus contributing to development, and that is to coherent development. If these amendments are not supported, then in some areas this development deficit, which is then reflected in economic work, in other parts, will remain the same as it is. But it is true that this government is also the one that has finally succeeded in really doing something about closing down Russian debt. It has been open since 1990, since independence, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and no one has achieved any good results in this area. [[...]] We can be happy that the approximately $200 million, or euro, that remains open and unaccounted for, will be settled and closed through energy supplies as well as some other compensatory transactions. Unfortunately, so far, that has not been possible. The amendments that are, but I will definitely support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u194	President, thank you so much for your word. We're between Scylla and the Caribbean. I am sure that the arguments for working on this road of Slovenian Konjice - Poles are those who abstain and should therefore support such an amendment. At least I won't argue with him for that. On the other hand, we take from Science and Technology Development, which I think is absurd as to what this National Assembly has adopted in various doctrines and resolutions. This is why I cannot support this amendment, and I will abstain. However, I would like to say the following: very few are parties in European parliaments that bring together pensioners and who have the main concern at the Ministry of Defence. It seems to me that our colleagues from DeSUS, whom I respect from the beginning to the end, are just between the floor and the fork. That is how Prime Minister Janša, as I have seen, mocked in the latest statements made by some of this party and also by some Members, with this amendment, which is coalition and signed by DeSUS, I think the position is being mocked by the minister who is the "leader" of this party. I think it's the Ministry's mockery that he planned so badly that he needs to take it now. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] So much money. [[...]] That's why I think this amendment is more politically colored than any of us think. It seems to me that, as long as we vote on this amendment, a great shadow will fall on the champion of DeSUS, who runs this resort.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Of course, in view of such amendments, there is no doubt that Members, on behalf of the coalition, have submitted a complement to the Road Directorate programme. Of course, this raises doubts as to how the Government has been preparing the state budget, so that it can now reach a significant level of funding for one sector. At the same time, I wonder how the Slovenian Directorate for Roads works so that it can overlook such a range of roads, road sections, intersections in the Republic of Slovenia, which are said to be essential security on the ground. And isn't it interesting that only coalition Members can hope for success in these amendments, while opposition Members cannot prove by argument that such sections in Slovenia are yet another thing and that the coalition, by voting against taking responsibility for non-sanctioning these sections, can take responsibility if there are some tragic events at those sections, that it has not heard about such decisions. Today we have already proposed a series of amendments to support technological development, restructuring businesses, competitiveness, support for a small economy, which the Government itself is talking about reducing funds according to previous years. The Coalition has rejected all these amendments while taking funds from Technological Development within this budget proves that it does not want Slovenia and the Slovenian economy, Slovenian development and science of good condition, which Slovenia will have to prove in a very strong global competitive economic space. That is why it is a dilemma to deal with these amendments, so I will abstain from these amendments alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course I'll support this amendment. I would, however, like to draw attention here to a number of claims and statements, mainly by the opposition, about how resources are now being taken for the field of science and technological development. It should be pointed out that this Government has been spending more and more money on this particular area every year. Here, however, it is worth noting: it is not enough to ensure that I do not know how much money for science and technological development, but it must be ensured as far as science is actually capable and all this sphere is being used meaningfully. For some amount of money it is necessary to have a sufficient number of experts, a sufficient number of content, laboratories and such equipment, where we can make reasonable and especially useful use of this money. And why was it now estimated that in this area it is possible to devote some money to another, just as important sphere? Because it was an objective one, and I am sure that there is also a reasonable assessment that this money will not be used as meaningfully as it can be used in this road infrastructure. That's the key reason. I am sure that if we can use a billion euro of money meaningfully and this also contributes to society as an added value, this would be a meaningful use. In this case, it is appropriate to use this money for roads. I'm sure five times as much money could reasonably and justly spend on roads if they had it. But such spending or such a need is because in the past 10, 15 years, too little money has been allocated to this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u199	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. I will support these amendments and, in fact, no matter where the end of Slovenia is going to invest in modernisation, adaptation, new construction or, anything on the road infrastructure, this is very happy because it is obviously the biggest problem in this country right now. And if the Minister here has said that the funds for technological development are planned at such a level that no such high expenditure is possible through this spending, then with this MP in the National Assembly he has only somehow facilitated the way to certain road sections to come into effect earlier. And I do not agree, I think that the opposition is somewhat confused about these amendments, that the Government is making fun of Parliament and what we could hear, because, however, Parliament is the one who adopts the budget and Parliament can eventually also change it with certain amendments in its opinion. And I don't know what the connection is if someone's waiting for some written response from the government and doesn't want to embarrass her and so on. Parliament, the National Assembly is the one who will finally vote on the budget as well as on the amendments in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u201	Thank you. With more hands up, I'm opening the application. Please sign up for everyone who wants to explain your voice in your own name. Mr. Testen, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Well, I'll support all the coalition amendments as far as the state roads are concerned. I am particularly pleased to support this because a number of amendments, which also apply to the Court, have been neglected, because I think that this area has been neglected as far as road investment is concerned. And it should also be known that this is probably one of the areas farthest from any highway in Slovenia, and if we are talking today about coherent regional development, I think it is essential that this area approach Slovenia and it can only be done with better investment in state roads. All four years I have advocated investing in state roads because I think this area is still undernourished and that we will have to invest significantly more in state roads if we are to lead these state roads to a level that is appropriate for some European standard. That's why I'm happy to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u203	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u204	Thank you very much. In many ways, I agree with those forerunners who have a problem with the ability of the Republic Directorate for Roads to design a programme, given all that we had to agree on in the coalition to correct. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. Indeed, that part of the discussions that discuss the transfer of funds from the field of technological development of the Slovenian Armed Forces is also for other purposes. In fact, the problem of this coalition is not that Karl Erjavec would act unwisely, but that he must comply with the decisions of the government, which are often contrary to his and our beliefs. I'm saying this because another matter hung on our Erjavac, who had nothing to do with it and what we learned from the newspaper yesterday. I want to say that Moge is right that we are being wrongly treated, but we also need the benefit of this coalition by ensuring the coherence, but there is a lot going on. And when it comes to offering Erjavc to withdraw some of the funds for the road, if someone else needs money in the coalition, it happens. When I proposed to increase it for primary school and Erjavec offered, the finance minister did not accept it and we got the minimum with which - this is another amendment - would not start building those schools, and it almost doesn't matter if that money is or isn't. I'll support that amendment, too, but I'm sure there's not enough money. But the minister offered to add the resources needed to upgrade that thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u205	Thank you. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u206	Thank you, President. I usually object to the defence ministry's policy, and this time I will defend it in this amendment. Because it is taking place in an area that has already been well discussed by colleague Potrate and colleague Anderlič - I co-sign their arguments - but not on those items that have already been discussed, which are worth a lot more money and which, in my personal opinion, are also inappropriate. It's about getting the right equipment and so on. My colleague Grill said earlier that you need to have a certain number of people to activate programs, including technological development. But you have to have the same number of people you need to use the equipment that we're going to go shopping so expensive today. And because there was also talk of clearing debt for Russia. It is good that the government has concluded this, but it has concluded as it will with this budget - wrong! Poor priorities have been introduced into this agreement. The ship is one of these. Surely the ship will prove to be a bad investment because it makes no sense to have such a ship on such a sea when we have the opportunity to develop a very rational, functionally integrated Coast Guard project. And also from this title, on the basis of the clearing debt with Russia, we could set other priorities and other equipment that would be much more useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u207	Thank you. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. I will support all these amendments, because it is necessary to realize that every development of infrastructure is at the heart of it. It is still true that there will be no high technology in the Mud Bottom. That must be quite clear to us. First you need a road, the rest of the infrastructure, then you can come up with institutes, research and the like. And there's something else about these things, these amendments. The facilities are in areas that have so far been truly high political priority, but have been forgotten many times. This is Sosočje, Koroška, there is a particular emphasis, but of course there are objects from all over Slovenia. That's what you have to admit if you take a good look. I told myself yesterday that all those who have so many concerns about these objects, come to those places, come before the citizens, and tell them that it does not make sense that this is unnecessary and similar. You'll see what the citizens and the locals will tell you. After this salary, of course, I must give Mr Erjavac all recognition, and on the other hand, I would say that the greatest aid to the minister now - of course, only in words - is given to those who, with the amendments they have proposed, would have taken away practically for as much as the entire ministry has received the resources. Look - I think I have so much time - with one amendment, 15 million euros were taken by colleagues from SD. 15 million euros - yes! Then there are 825 thousand euros and 2 million euros. If we put this together, Minister Erjavec does not have all that much money in his budget, and we would take it all with the five amendments; and now all of a sudden, there is such a concern as the Minister will be able to work with this money. That's another truth. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Let us be honest and look into our eyes and see what we have written. [[...]] All I said was what we wrote. I will support all these amendments, and I'm sure Minister Erjavec will be able to score well, because we'll be in some other place. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u209	Thank you. Mr. Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will support these amendments, or after thorough consideration, but still. If we want to develop, we need infrastructure, and some of these sections that are here are actually needed investments, and here I think there are some major differences between us. But the problem is when we have to find the funds, where we're going to take them. The bag is like that, if we're going to build something that's not supposed to be, then we have to take it from someone. Now we're talking about the army, about the defense. If we were taking it to health care, perhaps some other group of Members would have concerns if we took it to school, and if we took it back to social, agriculture, however we turned, there was always a problem where to take it. And if, after careful consideration and weighing, what is more necessary, what is more urgent, a decision has been made to get these funds out of defence, then I will support such a decision. There's something else about hard words about development. Look, if we look at the total resources provided for in the science and development budget, it's a relatively small amount. However, to forget that during the period of this government this amount has been steadily increasing, and that we are already coming slowly there close to 0,90% of GDP, although we cannot be satisfied with this, but this is some progress and the possibility that this [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Let's make it up to you in the next few years. [[...]] That's why I'm going to decide for someone, in fact, a little bit of evil, and I'm going to support these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u211	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Chairman. I think something has been said to these amendments today, and yet, I will support this amendment for simple reasons. First, because these amendments come from all over Slovenia, they are very polycentrically set up to essentially seal what this Government is also committed to, as well as the National Assembly. True, all the amendments are political because they are accepted in this house. Whether it's right or wrong, those are the facts. Secondly, I have already supported several amendments to the opposition in this National Assembly, because I thought they made sense, and I am sure of what else I would be, because in the end my conscience also dictates it to me. As far as the directorate is concerned, some people have fears. All of these conclusions, amendments to be made by the Directorate for Implementation in the coming year, will certainly be carried out by virtue of its own proficiency in accordance with our conclusions in the National Assembly. And as far as Ljubljana and its surroundings are concerned, it certainly doesn't have these problems anymore: It has roads, it has a ring, it has circles, it has everything. Many parts of Slovenia also have state-owned macadam roads, where our citizens are still driving, and our citizens would also like to have asphalt roads, and our citizens would also like to develop more quickly and get closer to those who are more developed. Let them get to that road in 2008, which Ljubljana has had for 50 years. Let us be so patient with those who do not yet have it, and here is an opportunity to show those regions and municipalities that we are thinking about them and that they are not forgotten by us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u213	Thank you. Since it is still an interest, I am reopening my application for explanations of vote in my personal name. Mr. Zagorac, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u214	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. President! I myself will support the amendments to this sub-chapter, as I have said before, regardless of whether they are also taking funds from Science and Technology Development at the Ministry of Defence. I must say that I fully agree here with the President of the Slovenian National Party, Victory Jelinčič, who has previously given you the reasons why he will support these amendments. But there's one thing that's still going to happen. This is the fact that one of the coalition members said, "We have to take somewhere." If we took somewhere else, there would be another group of people, if we took them there, there would be another group of people again." I hope that the same principle will apply when we reach the opposition amendments talking about roads. With the duality I see now, I do not know how you will vote, Members, later, given that you seem to be arguing with the Government, because you have already supported several amendments that the Government does not support. I don't know how you'll vote then. But you're letting me tell you, in all the amendments I've tabled and related to roads, regional roads, the government has written that it doesn't support them because I'm taking them from a source. Why is this same story not repeated with you even though we take it from the same source? And here it shows the duality of the government's performances and speeches. I would also like to remind Mr Tank and Mr Chernach. The first said that we are opening up regions by sanitation roads - I hope you will also open up regions where opposition Members are proposing amendments for development. And Mr. Chernač, who says that this Government is investing in the development of roads - I will see when the amendments of the opposition come. Only then will I believe you. So far, in these three and a half years, you have given me such an opportunity that I cannot believe your word; I will see if you can do it by doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u215	Thank you. Mr. Rugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Well, apparently this little piece of the amendment is a very topical one. These amendments together do not probably represent any kind of gap in this budget, which is a really good budget. I have here a list of all these roads that are being built in the country on 30 pages. And in Cyprus, if I may say so, for Mr Aurelio Juri, probably much more than in a number of other congregations, which may even have two members of the ruling coalition. So it is very unfair to speak in such a form, if you, the coalition takes something for yourself and the opposition does not look. I can read it here, but I won't, because it's a waste of time and we're limited to it. But, look, at least 12 items are built in Koper, with very large amounts. Nobody says that. He suggested that we really stop because these are really manipulations and I do not approve of such discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u217	Thank you. We're voting on the amendment. There are 49 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a vote on the 7th amendment of the coalition. Do you have a procedural proposal? Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The National Assembly adopted the Resolution on healthy nutrition. The content of this resolution consists of two very important segments: inter alia, to try to prepare as healthy a meal as possible when we put together the menu. Secondly, a very important message is that we need to have enough meals a day and that we have enough time in the course of meals not to eat quickly, so that we do not confuse this village - for a simple reason, because we do ourselves more harm than good. And since I am Chairman of the Health Committee, it seems right to point out our actions as the National Assembly to the public. And since my colleague may repeatedly, when we are with an ensemble somewhere, say that in such a role, people can see that we are also Members of the people, it seems reasonable to point out that in the programme of work of the National Assembly, when we speak and discuss and vote against, of course, it is impossible to predict a time in which we can properly do our physiological needs, including healthy nutrition. That is why, Mr President, I ask you: is there any holiday planned today for us to leave properly to have a meal? Given the dynamics of the debate that is going on here today, and given that we are on the 11th page of the amendments, which has 59 pages for 2008, that we will also consider the amendments for 2009, that we still have a few things on the agenda, of course, Mr President, I ask you: Does the leadership of the National Assembly also think that we are Members of the People and that we want to give our example to the Slovenian public that the resolution on healthy nutrition is the one that has the National Assembly when it plans its work, too? Therefore, I ask you that within this programme we would have a time dimension in which we can go and at least eat lunch properly in the dynamics of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u219	Mr. Germich. You don't have to make such a long and dramatic introduction. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] I'd also like to ask that you take the time to make a procedural proposal. [[...]] What do you suggest, how much rest time and so on and how many breaks? What do you suggest? But don't explain it again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u220	I took more time because I had not talked about it in this National Assembly, but it was often a practice. I suggest you take a 45-minute break in due course so we can go and have lunch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u221	Is there any idea of a vacation? It's not. I am adjourning the meeting and we will continue it at 13.45, as Mr Germić has asked.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a decision on the 7th amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. I'll wait for you to take your seats. We're at the 7th Amendment. Please take your seats. So we're at the 7th Amendment and we're moving on to the vote on the amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 46 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the 8th amendment, including the coalition's parliamentary groups. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u223	In addition, it is necessary to explain why this amendment cannot be supported, with the emphasis that there is no embarrassment - building roads, we support this too. But, explaining that technological developments in the military are not possible to spend money, they are simply not accurate. Anti-air defence and some other things, go look, you will see that the involvement of home knowledge, some Isker, Photon and so on, which not only work for the Slovenian Army and develop technological systems, but also work for export and other armies around the world. That's a fact, and you can't compare it to any input into the road. You can only compare it to buying expensive equipment abroad, which, as I said before, is packed here and all the knowledge that is invested there is the dispersion of deconservation. And that's what's incomprehensible. With regard to the calls published for scientific - technological development in the field of defence - go take a look, because you obviously did not look at it, there was not enough money in 2007 for all the calls published. And they weren't chosen to co-finance for that purpose. Nevertheless, you have reduced by a million euros already in change and now by a few million euros with these amendments. And that's all this is about. Slovenian companies, universities and some institutes are responding to calls for proposals which are published. There is a need for the Ministry and all those agencies and those who publish these calls to defend it, it is not true that they cannot spend this money, but it is true that it is unnecessary for them to use it in some other areas. The talk here was how great the achievement is that we closed the Russian debt of probably €70.80 million with the ship. This is not a good business, and this must only be counted against the part that is contrary to what this means for technological development for the military. And in this context, as we say, we would very much like to support investment in road infrastructure, but in the first place is what can and must after entry [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in NATO Slovenia to work on scientific and technological development in the field of security and defence. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u224	Thank you. Mr. Horvath, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u225	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We will support this amendment. Since I was one of the initiators of the road reconstruction initiative, allow me to say a little more. It's actually a road that goes through Hotizo, which we know after another story, through the Big Polano, the Gomile, the Lipa, and goes to Beltinc. The four congregations are also associated. And with all my responsibility, I will press the "yes" button in the vote on this amendment. This road is in part completely sedated or paved. Why? Because it is also occasionally used as a traffic, which is on G1-3 Lendava-Maribor road some kind of congestion, these are something every day. In fact, traffic at the Maribor - state border or Hungary is virtually stopped. Therefore, it is imperative that this road be reconstructed as soon as possible, I believe that some of you will say that when we get the highways, we will no longer need this road. That's not true! There's gonna be some traffic on this road. And I invite you all to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u226	Thank you. Anyone in their personal name? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 56 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. (For the vote was 51.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. I turn to the vote on the ninth amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 50 votes against. (For the vote was 50.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to the vote on the 10th amendment of the coalition. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. (For the vote was 52.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the 11th amendment, which has also been tabled by the coalition. Anybody? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the 12th amendment, also tabled by the coalition. Mr. Anderlich, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u227	I supported the previous amendment only for one reason, because it makes sense and takes it where it has been defined that it will be built from this title and put it back in this area. But this amendment is completely meaningless and is the fruit of a wish on the list like anything else. In fact, the remote cycling link in Trebnje to H1. H1 is a road reserved for motor traffic. There won't be a biking trail until, if it's, it's gonna be a highway, and that's when. But that won't be in 2008. It will not be built in 2008, and this is an amendment for 2008. But that's another question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u228	Mr. Anderlich, we're at the 12th Amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u229	As far as the 12th is concerned, the coalition simply rewinds, refusing to give money for technological development. He even denunciations the minister here so he won't be able to use that money. Yeah, of course not if you won't let him publish the invitations to use it. If he has to give, as was said today, some money for other things at his disposal, he will. But these are things that you have to tell the public once again what you are actually doing: whether you are for really investing Slovenia in scientific and technological development or not. And one of the things that we basically advocated at the time of joining NATO was that in the field of investment for defence and security science, support for science, technological development, benefits for the domestic economy, go look at all the acts that were adopted at the time, and that was this direction. And the SDS also supported it and how. Today, three years after that, no more technological developments, just choose an intermediary, pay a rich commission and buy the most expensive equipment. Yes, dearest, best in the programme and under transparent development. However, if €19 million of 12 vehicles are tendered, 10 for €23 million is bought, but something is wrong. This is certainly not about transparency and it is certainly not about the purpose of this item in the budget, as it should be to support the scientific and technological development of our companies at home, but not only to transfer money from this heading abroad through intermediaries. But we all know what this is about. And like I told you, you re-enlisted these needs for 40 million euros before yesterday.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u230	Thank you. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 47 to 4. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to the 13th Amendment. That's what the coalition put in. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, for 51, for 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a vote on the 14th Amendment. That's what the coalition put in. Anybody want a word? Mr Bevk, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u231	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! I will support the 14th Amendment, which was introduced into the programme of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, namely the reconstruction of the section on the state road of Keltika, within the framework of the fourth development axis, on the relationship between Idrija and Godovic, which is one of the most neurological points of this road, in addition to the one in the Zale Society, between Idrija and Godovic. I hope that this programme will continue in the coming years. I am pleased, however, that you voted against the amendment earlier, which I have tabled to start building a third belt in the Hall in 2008, but I am pleased that this third belt will begin to be built at least in 2009. In addition, I expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to fulfil the promise it made at the 130th meeting of the Government this summer to include in the resolution on national projects for the period until 2023 the Idrija-logic leg of the fourth development axis, not only for promises, but also for this road to be included in that set of projects, which was also promised to be eligible for European funds. As we say, I support the amendment that starts the project at the Celtica section from Želen to Dolenje Trebuša. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u232	Thank you. Anyone else? [[& Load ……]] We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present for 52, against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to a decision on the 15th Amendment. That's what the coalition put in. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a vote on the 16th Amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 55 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to the 17th Amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 56 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving to the 18th Amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 55 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to the vote on the 19th Amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 56 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a vote on the 20th Amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 56 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to the 21st Amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 57 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a vote on the 22nd Amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 57 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a vote on the 23rd Amendment. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a vote on the 24th Amendment. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a vote on the 25th Amendment. Explanation of voice. Mr. Rugelj in the name of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u233	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that this amendment is very much needed. Look, earlier, some of the discussers were talking about sidewalks that were damaged. Here I have to say that it is an overpass over a railway that does not even have a sidewalk, and it has not been built for that long, which indicates one so great flaw in those planners. It's practically impossible for pedestrians to access their homes through this overpass. In the middle of the overpass there is a full line, and on the sides there are edges that are 30 centimeters wide. And I saw the kid myself when he fell off that curb, which was pretty high, and he was a little short of falling under the car. Things like that, where they really don't exist, I think they really need to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u234	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u235	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I must admit that Mr Rugelj has convinced me with his implementation. I'd be happy to support this amendment. I believe that this pedestrian corridor in Orehova is very important, and I hope that, in my explanation for the amendment to the road, in which of the municipalities I propose, I will be able to convince you too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u236	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u237	Thank you. I had not previously supported the amendments that took science and technological development, and this time Mr Rugelj convinced me with his arguments. I hear there should be child safety everywhere and I'll vote in favour. But he voted against it before, so there's some duality in these arguments that we're making across the street. And I have something else to say. If the Ministry does not intend to take into account the fact that it will truly ensure the safe passage of children to school and if any of the children who will go to Selnica elementary school will do anything, I promise you in this place that I will demand the head of the minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u238	Thank you. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. (For the vote was 55.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to the vote on the 26th Amendment. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. (The vote was 54.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to the vote on the 27th Amendment. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. (For the vote was 51.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to the vote on the 28th Amendment. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 50 votes against. (For the vote was 50.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to the vote on the 29th Amendment. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. (For the vote was 51.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving to a vote on the 30th Amendment. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. (The vote was 54.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a vote on the 31st amendment. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. (For the vote was 55.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving to a vote on the 32nd Amendment. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. (For the vote was 56.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving to a vote on the 33rd Amendment. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. (For the vote was 56.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving to a vote on the 34th Amendment. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. (The vote was 54.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving to a vote on the 35th Amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to the vote on the 36th amendment. Mr. Sašo Pece is the proposer. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 38. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to a vote on the 37th Amendment. Mr Sašo Pece on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u239	Thank you so much for saying that. I didn't come forward on purpose with my previous amendment. This time, however, I would like you to consider the amendment not as an amendment by Saš Pečet, but as an amendment that will ensure a better life in Maribor City Hall. The amendment is also not substantively related to any political party, it was created in agreement with all the council groups in the Municipality of Maribor, both ruling and positional. However, I would like to point out what is most important in connection with this amendment, in order to allow for greater accuracy in particular, that day-to-day migration in Maribor, i.e. people who go to work and work and, on the other hand, by adopting this amendment, allow for the connection of the Municipality of Maribor both on one side of all the surrounding municipalities and, in particular, the municipalities bordering on the northern side. From this address, for those Members who come from the Municipality of Ljubljana. This is about as important a link as the link under the Ljubljana Castle. You can probably imagine for yourself what would happen if there were no roads under the Ljubljana Castle. And within the framework of this amendment, i.e. the amendment linking the city centre with Maleknik or the coast is minimal, the same is the minimum amount. From this title not only the Styrian Members who use this road daily but all other Members sincerely ask - let us support this issue, which will resolve the chaotic situation that is every day when people go to work or leave work. The amount we are advocating is minimal, all together - the proponents of the wider area of Maribor. Work must begin in the area mentioned above. However, I would like to point out, in my opinion, a very important fact that all the documentation is already made. Allow me to conclude. All the council groups and I sincerely believe that all users like this in Maribor would also support this amendment. That's why I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u240	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u241	I think this is the third time we have spoken and tried to convince and justify the basis for you to accept this amendment, which we repeat for the third time, is one of the rare state roads, if any, which is not yet transportable. This road is not a road. And for this reason, I would ask you to support this amendment, which truly ensures that there will be a connection in one part of Maribor, which is now interrupted for reasons that we Mariborians know very, very much. Over this road there is one hill, the hill is called, after this hill is a huge falling rock and therefore this road does not allow traffic and Maribor in this way does not have or has a bad connection to its back, it is the back of Malečnik and further towards Duplek and so on. All of this, I think, is justified by the reason that this planned road, however, is also agreed by the Road Directorate, to start activities already this year or next year, now following this plan they are moving in 2010-2011, which is unacceptable from the point of view of those who benefit from the road. Those who know this, those who know that it is a road that is not a road, but it is a pile of stone, a road that is relatively expensive because it is technologically and technically difficult but urgently necessary to start working. And here in particular, it was said earlier, it is the full consent of all the saints of the Municipality of Maribor, of any colour, of any political affiliation. Everyone is aware of this importance, and this is also our call that the colleagues you will vote on, among them, I particularly call on those colleagues who come or gravity in this area to decide to support this amendment. If there is support, we will thank the Mariborians if there is no support today with this amendment, we would invite you, colleague Hvauc, colleague Jerovšek, colleague Pukšič, and someone else, on Friday afternoon, before we go to the reception and lunch with Mr Kangler, to go see what shame we have, which you did not support with your possible negative vote. So the call, not because of Mr. Kangler's invitation, not because of lunch, but because there will be an opportunity to see a road in Maribor, which you probably did not feel or feel with your own eyes and feelings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u242	Thank you. We're still on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Our Group of Members will support this amendment. Mr. Sašo Pece convinced us. I think it is right to support it also because the financial drop into the sea is against all the changes that we are going to accept today in this road area. And if the Ministry of Defence has already contributed these funds to this end, it is 100,000 euros up or down for all the millions that are there or will be redeployed to the highway today. I think that it is right, right and right for the people living there, regardless of where one believes or politically belongs, that this amendment is mutually supportive and that we prove that we are thinking about everyone, not just those who live in our area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u244	Thank you. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will not support this amendment, for the first time, because this government, the Ministry of Transport and Coalition has made the entire budget programme and has taken care of all coherent regional development in this country before amendments have to be tabled. And a second time. Mr. Friday, every lunch has to be paid anyway. You're just paying him in this way to press the key. And thirdly, the time has passed in the coalition when, last year, before the new national elections, she sat down at the table and agreed on how much money each Member has at its disposal, and that exactly on that particular road or institution that he was counting on to receive the largest payment in the next national elections, i.e. the highest pay for pressing the button. He didn't care what happens next. Finally, colleagues and colleagues, if you really want consistent regional development, how much do you really want to discuss the billions of 200 000 euros at regional level, that is, at the level at which it would be most normal to discuss, then of course, do not leave the meetings of the National Assembly when we are talking about regional legislation and be present and adopt regional legislation. Only then will you show that it is not about paying for your lunches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u246	Thank you. We're moving on to a personal explanation. I've got four applications. Then I'll open the application. Zagorec, Mog, Trofenic, Jerovšek. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, I will support the amendment of the respected colleague of Pečet concerning Maribor and the Maribor Congregation. Just because it is coordinated within all the worldly groups that are coming to represent the congregation, the municipal council in the congregation of Maribor, I will not shudder at the stupidity spoken by my forerunner, because it is really nonsense in which it is not worth shivering, we are not talking about harmonious regional development, we are talking about three kilometres of road that today, believe it or not, because of its untidyness can also be deadly. But it is a road that connects the city center with a place in Maribor, which is mainly used by people who come from the direction of Lenart. I don't know what's going on here according to regional development. It is a 3km section of the road, which is essential for Maribor. My friend Puksich, that's all you've got. Have a good meal on Friday!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u248	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u249	Thank you. It's distasteful of me to talk to the electorate on this side. I don't have to, because I'm dancing the last tango in the National Assembly, and now I'm gonna be honest with you. Even in Titus Yugoslavia, when I was young, I was able to drive on this road. Now that we have our own country, this road is closed all the time, even though it has been closed for some time now, when the devil has been taking Tito's Yugoslavia. I'd like to say the following. It is about having access to Maribor on the left side of Drava, so that people from Podravje and the works of the Slovenian Mountains can come there. As I told you before, they must now cross one bridge, and in the morning, when they go to work, then across another bridge and then through the center, and when they return, they have the same calvary. As a result, I think it is more necessary for this shame, which is said to have lasted for 15 or 20 years, to be removed once, and also to link this part of the country to the Podravje, which is somehow related. Now it seems to me that there is something like this: the road is state, the road is closed, no one is driving, traffic is extremely blocked on this side and it seems to me that this road is something like a car that has a steering wheel in the trunk. It's something like that. And I think that the country, too, should have so much wisdom and so much wisdom that once this part of the roads is restored, if we have now opened up 20 or 30 amendments on this subject, which are much less important than is important for such a large city as Maribor, this road which connects it to the left part of Podravja, this is in the direction of Ptuj.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u250	Thank you. Mr. Trophynic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u251	Thank you for your word. If, in the introduction to one amendment from this package, I spoke about the first question that was raised on Saturday and in some difficult way yesterday, the second question was the opinion of the Roads Directorate, which was called and the professional institution to these amendments. He's not here. It's a real farce. We have the Roads Directorate, the Department of Roads in the Ministry, and these two as professional institutes don't know or don't want to plan quality. They take the Government to repeat this error as an official budget proposal, and then coalition MPs are better experts than the entire team of engineers at the Roads Directorate, a whole strong team at the Road Directorate, because they dictate the order of reconstructions and reconstructions. This is, of course, an unprecedented farce, which has also been in the past, that I will not be unilateral. The difference is that at the time it was a mega amendment, but now you've put this on the front desks, on a larger number of amendments, but it's essentially the same farce, the same disdain, irresponsible and I'm proposing to Minister Virant, who is rightly fighting to reduce red tape, to cut down all the representatives of the Road Directorate, who are so illogically located in concessionaires, is said to be in road companies in the same offices, and you don't even know whether he's a road company employee or a staff member of the Directorate. But they're going to save that money, and they're going to give it to some department. However, I will support this amendment on the principle that we must be on the weakest side, and because obviously the opposition MP who proposes it is the weakest side, I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u252	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u253	Thank you very much. I myself intended to support this amendment from the outset in his explanation, because I know that it is a road that is a major problem. And I agree, the shame that lies on the soul of the LDS. However, after explanation from colleague Mojet and colleague Milan Petk, I will not support this protest because they are throwing away evidence of what they are most responsible for in the LDS, and they are trying to direct the evidence and injustice to this government, which finally allowed Maribor to grow, to develop that he regained confidence. And there's another reason. Here I have repeatedly warned that when we accepted the guarantee for railways and roads in Maribor, my colleague Milan Petek advocated and voted against, against the roads in Maribor and the highway program. Now here she throws her eyes on our side, which she found in the budget a great deal of resources so that Maribor can develop. Comrade Friday, you are the most responsible and then I warned you, behind these you have run for mayor of Maribor, the people have rejected you on your left and on your right and do not throw away your eyes for what you are most responsible for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u254	Thank you. I'm resisting an application for explanations of vote in my personal name. You can sign up for those who have not yet explained your vote. Mr. Hwauc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree that Maribor with its surroundings, like other parts of Slovenia, needs good transport infrastructure, that there is still a lot to be done. However, I do not want this debate to develop in a direction that will only be invested where the amendments succeed, so that only amendments can solve this problem of transport infrastructure. A number of solutions have already been proposed in this budget, and I will give some figures or some examples. Let's say Maribor - Ptujska cesta - 2.3 million euros in 2008 and 2009, Western bypass, Streliška - 200 thousand euros, Malečnik road - 100 thousand euros, say Duplek road - Dvorjane - one million 270 thousand euros, cycling trails in the municipality of Maribor - Hoče - Starše - 200 thousand euros. Pochehova - Yuri - 410 plus 47 000 euros. And I could count, there's more of these smaller items. Not to mention the modernisation of the airport in Slivnica - five million 800 000 euros. And the biggest investment in this area, ladies and gentlemen, is the construction of a highway from Slivnica and through the municipality of Miklavž, the Parents and beyond against Drazenec, which is worth 200 million euros. These are the funds invested in this area, and this needs to be taken into account. Those who think that those who have some concerns about individual amendments against development, I think this is not the correct explanation. I'm aware of the problem of this road and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Since this problem has been open for 20 years and has not been resolved, I understand that this needs to be settled, so I will not oppose the amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u256	Thank you. Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u257	President, I think we are talking about the amendment and the support of the amendment, but not about attacking a fellow Member, as Mr Jerovšek did, completely outside the context of the amendment. Apparently, some people don't have enough in their head to understand that I've invited those of us who are going on Friday somewhere, so I won't say again where we're going to look at this road first. That was my appeal. Secondly, I think that everything has been said about this road that Mr Hvauc has just said how he attaches the road as one that needs investment. By the way, I didn't count some investments that have no connection in this budget, but they have in their development plans later years, and that was fictional, but I'm not going to paralyze that. Once again, I think that the only national road in Slovenia is not transportable. And if that's not an argument, then I don't know what else would be an argument to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u258	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u259	This is an amendment that a peaceful soul can support and take where money is too much. Slovenia will never reach 8,500 soldiers; it will have 7,100, so planned by Minister Erjavec and the Slovenian state, not yet formally, not yet in accordance with the acts, because you will still have to bring them into the procedure, but these are facts. At least what can be done either by delaying the supply of one of those 25 unequipped armoured personnel or by this call, which will now be €40 million for 9 vehicles, only gentlemen, only 0.1% should the intermediaries who will supply this be cancelled commission and you will see how many roads there will be. And this is the item that is the right item in the defence budget and I am sorry that you couldn't find these reserves in the coalition as well. And these reserves are definitely here, and that's why, of course, I'm going to support this amendment. Because just by coordinating where there's less money, with money where there's more money, it probably makes sense to do our work here. Not that some lists are made on one side, it is said, he gave us money, but we arrange it because he will not be able to distribute it on some items anyway. The budget is done differently. And that's a typical example of how to do that. And I believe that at least in the future it will prevail. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u260	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Maribor needs this road. Podravje needs this road, too. Ladies and gentlemen, this road is not intended exclusively for citizens and townspeople of Maribor, but for all municipalities located in the east of the Municipality of Maribor, from Ormož, Radgone, Lenart and all other things. But I didn't come forward for this, but I would like to point out, given that I think there have been some very unfair discussions in connection with the Maribor municipality and with citizens and citizens. I promise on my behalf, I believe that I can also promise on behalf of my colleague Milan Petk, also Rudy Mojet, and not least what I will first allow myself, even in the name of mag. Majde You believe that no one will ever apply, if this amendment is accepted, the authorization of this amendment. This will be adopted by the amendment of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We give this, and I will not say a gift, but we give this as something the municipality of Maribor has not yet arranged, and this is one of those potential fits into the Municipality of Maribor. We are talking about the minimum amount and it is not worth laughing at, Comrade Jerovšek, which you are currently performing. Maribor needs it. I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u262	Thank you. Mrs. Žgajner Tavš - cancels. Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u263	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Pece has proposed two amendments here. I understand that the Proletarian Road has an ideological mine in its name, so you turned it down. But I really don't see that reason at Little Man's. Members and Members of Parliament have a general mandate, you can silence this Jerovska! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u264	Mr Gulič, many speak in this Chamber and I ask you all to give the floor to Mr Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u265	We have a general mandate and we need to make sure that Slovenia not only develops, but that the links are also normal. After all, all Members, because you are driving not only in your constituencies, electoral units, but you are going all over Slovenia and you could know a little better the situation on these roads, and not look at it as mine, yours, yours, ours, but at what needs to be arranged. We have supported all these amendments so far, and we have not looked at who is the proposer and whose mayor has an interest in the back. That's why I think it would be wise to add something to this, no matter what, from [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Someone's coming. [[...]] This applies to this case and also to the following. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u266	Thank you. Since it is still an interest, I reopen the possibility of applying for an explanation in my personal name on Amendment 37. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u267	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I've been given a little training now because I thought I was correctly predicting what was in this section, what was the problem. It's an extraordinary and difficult section. And this department was closed down before, I don't know, now I'm going to say, for sure more than 20 years. This is an extremely large biological or geomechanical problem and this amount is, however, envisaged as some survey of this area or preparation of documentation, or the project is worth more than €2 million, I think. Therefore, I propose that we make one suggestion to allow this documentation to be prepared, so that this project can be technically and professionally done in the coming years when the project is also envisaged in the documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u268	Thank you. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u269	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment because I think it is at least as justified as the many amendments we have already adopted. The fact is that we are now discussing this situation without any knowledge. At least I've known this case for years. But because of the beatings that are there, from the brigs, it has not yet been realized as such. It would be fair for one of the planners from the directorate and the experts from this section to step forward in this debate because there is no explanation for the vote. This is normal and correct for responsible Members. However, if a number of amendments were previously justified, at least this one has them. It's more secure than before, and as far as I know, it's more necessary. The question is, however, whether these 100,000 euros will even be used in 2008, given that we do not know the professional views and decisions on this section. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u270	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u271	Thank you for your word. On the first day of the debate, I announced that I would support the amendments, which are linked to the proposals of the opposition Members, and are addressing many of the road curves from the environment from which we come. This amendment, which we are currently discussing, covers the issue that I know as a City Councilwoman from at least two mandates and intensive efforts to solve this problem. All that you said to those who spoke about the complexity of the section, about what should have been done, what additional research and documentation should have been prepared, always stopped in this section of the matter just before it was shown that things could be resolved. That's why I think it would be good to support this amendment, just as I think the previous one didn't get your enthusiasm, not because the road is called what it's called. This part of the city, which is also on this road, is the house where I live, from 1973. And in 1973, this road was named after it. And for her, we suggested that my husband and I rename it Celovska Road. And those who dwell on the road gave no consent to such a name because you know how to do it. So ideological reasons can't be a problem for non-support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u272	Thank you. Since there is still an interest in explanation of vote, I am reopening my application. Mr. Znidarsich. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u273	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! This is one of the cases of amendments called an amendment due to populism. Especially by those who have been saints in the Municipality of Maribor for even a few years, and in particular by those political parties who had the last two mandates of the Mayor of the Municipality of Maribor and those who were also the last two members of the coalition. In view of what I have heard from my colleague the Presecnik, I am even more prevented from making this a truly populist amendment, because it is possible to have €2 million at my disposal and to do what is necessary to remedy the road, and if the documentation has been made so far, then, as with any other project, documentation can be completed here. However, it is incorrect at this point to ask the Road Directorate to answer these questions, because, as we know Members and Members of Parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of which Anderlich was the author, I objected to him, the Government does not have this option.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u274	Thank you. Mrs. Possonec. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u275	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, it is ironic, when we listen to strong arguments to support this amendment, to follow the Government's reasoning as an argument for rejection. If we had previously adopted a series of amendments and taken the Ministry of Defence in the field of technological development, now, on the basis of the proposal to provide funds for the provision of weapons and infrastructure capacities, where item 142 million is available, and a reduction of €100,000 on the basis of the Government, would mean that, by reducing these resources, it is actually impossible or slowing down the implementation of equipment programmes. What a duplicity in the argument approach, only because members of the coalition can get support, while a well-founded proposal by opposition Members, which was also made clear in the introduction, that a consensus of saints in the Maribor municipal council has a necessary project. And how to trust a Member who is convinced that this amendment is needed and that these means must be provided to deter the debate of one Member, because he has mentioned it, and now this project is for the wider region. It was explained that this is an important project for the wider region, for citizens and citizens of Maribor and for all the local municipalities, so that one member who has an argument to support this meeting can be convinced so quickly, because he mentions that, of course, this project is not worth supporting now. It seems to me that this is a huge diversion and it is a shame that in such an easy way of discussing you think you can convince people that adopting this project would make them a significantly better life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u276	Thank you. I see there's still interest, so I'm reopening the application. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u277	Thank you, Mr. President. In the debates of those who have expressed the belief that they will support this amendment, which I will also support, I have not seen any populism. And I am very sad that I am sure that Mr Pukšič would wholeheartedly support this amendment, but he must not and does not hope. That's it. And the vivid explanation of his decision was nice to listen to, but it wasn't, I would say, fair to the matter itself. If it is to support this amendment in favour of the rehabilitation of a road that is a long-standing problem, without authorization, who has the credit for it, and it is an agreement that this should be our joint amendment, then this is not a populism, it is a fair view of the matter and it would be fair to completely not to say, unanimously support it. We, as a parliamentary group, will, of course, personally support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u278	Thank you. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 34. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the 38th amendment, proposed by Mr Zagorac. Mr Zagorac, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u279	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. President! 38. The amendment was created in cooperation with the mayor of the municipality of Kungota, with the municipal council of the municipality of Kungota, who are really trying to make one very dangerous section of the road 60 meters long, it is a bridge across the river Pesnica in Juri, it is a regional road between Maribor and the interstate border crossing in Yuri. The bridge is long-lasting, so destroyed that it becomes more dangerous from day to day. All of us here wish that there be no unnecessary damage, but God does not make sacrifices because perhaps someone will not be able to listen to this matter as soon as possible, not until 2010 or the start of the collection of paperwork in 2009. Let's get this confirmed today for safety. Given the vote on the previous two amendments, I know that the trend has turned. I have a very bad feeling about the amendments of the Slovenian National Party, because, as was the case with the previous amendment, I hope that you will not impose anything other than politicisation on us when we are talking about road safety and road sections. It's not about politicization. It is a road, and I believe that this road is as important a road as the road that took place in the Slovenian Horses like an overpass or a pedestrian crossing in Orehovac, where the government also spends money in the budget. I think it's as important as all 30 coalition amendments. I also hope, yesterday, I have already appealed to my respected colleague, who is also coming from this place to explain to you how long this bridge is, how very dangerous this bridge is, how important it was, but it could have been yesterday, not until tomorrow. Don't wait till 2010 for something to happen. I hope he explained it to you. I hope you listened to him. Sam likes to point out that he has a lot of authority in your client. I hope he made the right use of it this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u280	Thank you. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, for 21, against 42. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to a vote on the 39th Amendment. Mr Kontić, proposer. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u281	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! This amendment and amendment No. 41 According to the funds, it could be called an amendment, which undermines the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union and is intended exclusively for this purpose. As you can see, it takes EUR 625,000 here and amendment 41 from foreign policy, including for the presidency and promotion of Slovenia, once again the sum or more. This amendment was tabled by the undeniable leader of the Group of Social Democrats. Probably by the time he saw himself as the leader of the parliamentary group. Here is the way of social democracy policy, which, on the one hand, signed an agreement on governance and non-aggression at the time, and on the other hand, it does everything in its power to bring down the Slovenian Presidency. Mr Prah says to this: A new pattern of political action. If it's a sample like this, we have to thank you. As they imagined, in what perfidious way to overthrow the Slovenian Presidency, to take almost all the funds from these plans, it is evident that the letter that was written is not only sticky, but also misleading. I, my fellow Members and fellow Members, point out that the proposals of Social Democracy show that almost everyone has taken on foreign policy: the implementation of foreign policy, the implementation of protocol events. Everything has been done to prevent this project of successful governance of Slovenia in the EU Presidency. I must say that, after what we see here, the emperor naked, your policy has broken out, you are ready to do everything for the mudslinging of Slovenia abroad and for that it could not be done in an appropriate way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u282	Thank you. Does anyone want to do it on their own? Mr. Contic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u283	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although I can agree with Mr Jerovsk, although I am not supposed to argue with him, I have been directly challenged with regard to the funds to be taken from a particular item and placed on another item. But I am sure that even if these funds were redistributed, Slovenia could successfully lead the EU if, of course, the government were capable of doing so. And I hope it is [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr Jerovšek, I think you had a chance to say what you wanted to say, now I have a word. Even with the profanity of Slovenia in the EU and the world, this amendment has nothing wider. The fact that the emperor is naked is well said, but I could add something to it if I spoke of Mr Jerovsk, but I will not do this at this moment, because the level used by Mr Jerovšek is unacceptable to me and I will not be caught in the tins offered here by Mr Jerovšek. This amendment certainly gives the resources where they are needed. Like the funds provided by the coalition Members, and in doing so, they have found an understanding, probably by the governments to do so. If the opposition wants to redistribute some funds, there's always a reason why it's not good. In one case, the amendment is technically not feasible and in the other case we find an excuse where the funds are taken. But I am sure that this has nothing to do with leading the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u284	Thank you. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u285	I will support the amendment of Comrade Kontic. Nor is it because the arguments given by Comrade Jerovšek do not hold. He himself well knows how many reserves are within the protocol lines at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in the field of foreign policy activities there will be no harm if we adopt such an amendment. Finally, the Minister for Foreign Policy travels in such a way as to afford many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, So, the reserve, if we look at the budget under this heading, is so much so that our Presidency of the European Union will not be affected in any way or in a millimeter.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u286	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u287	I will support the amendment of Comrade Kontic for several reasons. The first is that these are roads around Velenje. And if I understand any of these Presidency programs, I'm going to be around a lot of vehicles, but maybe a little bit more about that in the next amendment. Second. However, I hope that Mr Jerovšek will support the next amendment, which he does not take from the Presidency, and the reason is even more meaningful, to arrange roads near Šentil near Velenj. With regard to the so-called taking of the presidency, the following. What colleague Kontič suggests is only one tenth of the surplus of funds or if you want to build a more expensive protocol building Brdo pri Kranj. So I think that if the Government were to make an effort to negotiate a little better with its suppliers, subcontractors and their tax advisors and others, of course it would be possible to save it. The explanation given by the Government does not know what this amendment has and the construction of the Velenje-Škale road with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund and with Ecofin, so I would suggest that, if the next time we explain it more substantively, why can't we build and regulate Velenje-Skale road? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u288	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u289	Thank you for your word. I cannot support the amendment because, according to the known data, I believe that there is no reserve and that the flow of funds from the Presidency would threaten and negatively affect the Presidency itself. I am aware of this source because, after the Presidency, we are planning a conference or consultation on climate change, which is becoming increasingly important, and it has been said that the funds are exhausted, that there is no reserve and that funds are being sought elsewhere. So we can't say that this is another reserve or that we can translate it here and there without jeopardising the presidency. And that's why I won't support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u290	Thank you. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u291	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it would be very easy to save this money that would go into one very unnecessary road with some modest savings if, say, in these six months, all the high representatives of the government rented a hotel with one less star, just as the Members usually do and would be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u293	Thank you very much. You know, when I listen to the explanations of some of the representatives of the largest coalition party SDS, I have to say that I simply don't understand how a grown man is not capable of going through himself. I have listened to one of the previous amendments, which is based on the SDS principle, that Member will not support an amendment because it was tabled by the SNS because it was supported in the LDS and in the SD. I am now listening to the risk of saving or chairing the European Union if we support this amendment. It is €650,000, €625 000, I apologize, on the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will spend only €3.3 million on car rental during the presidency. But it would be significantly cheaper if I bought them and then sold them because I would save them in the budget. You know, these logics, I just don't understand, respected colleagues and colleagues. And when you say we're politicizing the matter, we're populist. Who's populism and unfair in the whole thing? Members of the opposition who supported all the coalition amendments when it came to the question of road reconstruction. Are we really the opposition Members unfair, even though it is estimated that the budget without amendments was harmonised. Are they unfair coalition MPs who are very populist about today's explanations of vote? I'll support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u294	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 42. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the 40th amendment, Mr Kontic, the proposaler. Mr. Squeakle, on behalf of the House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u295	Very briefly. And this amendment has no reservation. This amendment does not take part in the presidency, so I assume that the MPs of the ruling coalition will support this amendment. It is a reconstruction of the road on the route Velenje - Polzela, section Kavče - Ložnica - Andraz nad Polzelo. This is the part of the road that was the only one that was transported when we had the impression that everything else was flooded. I hope that, due to the previously understood respect for the country's Presidency needs, you will support this amendment and ensure that a million euros will be earmarked for the final settlement of Slovenian roads in important places. What do you know about the events that will take place during the presidency and will probably happen very close to this place? By suggesting that just for Slovenia to look better than Buck Palanka to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u296	Thank you. Mr. Horvath, on behalf of the House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u297	Thank you, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Group will not support the amendment of colleague Kontić. We agree with the first part. I know the road situation is bad. However, we cannot agree, at least not in the part where it takes up a fifth of the allocated road resources from the Agricultural and Food Reform programme, and from the types of colleagues and colleagues of the Social Democrats, the initiative or criticism came yesterday that the Slovenian food industry is not reorganised. It is also about measures to stabilise the market or market price policy. We've been talking about inflation for three days, and so on, it's said, the source of funds is not good. I agree with the first part, but I cannot fully support this amendment, nor can the entire New Slovenia Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u298	Thank you. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 44. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the 41st amendment, Mr Kontic, the proposaler. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 42. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the 42nd amendment, Mr Kontic, the proposaler. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 42. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We turn to the vote on the 43rd amendment, Mr Gaber. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 42. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to a vote on the 44th amendment, proposed by Dr. Gaber and Mr. Školč. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 43. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the 45th amendment, proposed by Dr. Slavinec. Mr. Juban, on behalf of the House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u299	Thank you very much. This is, you might say, a twin of that amendment, which we exceptionally supported and reasoned with my colleague Horvato in particular, is the same section, the same object and the same problems that may be present in this building and I would ask you to support this amendment as before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u300	Thank you. We're voting. There are 66 Members present and 25 votes against 41. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the 46th amendment, proposed by the SNS Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 43. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We move to a vote on the 47th amendment, the drafter of the SNS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 42. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the proposed amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the 48th amendment, the drafter of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 43. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We move to a vote on the 49th Amendment, the drafter of the SNS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 43. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the 50th amendment, which is proposed by the SNS Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 42. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the 51st amendment, proposed by the SNS Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 42. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the 52nd amendment, Mr Petek Milan. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u301	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues! The same matter that we discussed in the previous relatively turbulent debate, I will now say nothing, and I hope that this will bring a better result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u302	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac. Here you go. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament. In your own name, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u303	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. President. Earlier, this important section in the municipality of Maribor escaped us for a trifle. I hope that now, when we get to the tail table, not some who will be happy to eat some lunch, even when they are invited, but now they have just supported that their heads have cooled so much that they will find that this is still good, not only for Maribor, but also for the wider region, also for the left bank of Drava, from which they come, and I hope that this section will now finally receive this support, that you have only found that you have previously made a little politicisation, but now you will try to be real human people or what this government always says is for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u304	We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members, 24 to 41. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We're moving on to a decision on the 53rd Amendment. Mr. Milan Petek. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, for 21, for 41. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the 54th amendment, Mr Weber. We're voting. There are 63 Members present, for 20, for 42. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are now moving to the user - Ministry of Environment and Space - Sub-programme Environmental Improvement. I am putting to the vote the first amendment, proposed by Mr Han Matjaž. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, for 21, against 42. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. I am putting to the vote the second amendment, the coalition's proponent. In the name of the Members, Mr. Miro Petek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u305	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to say that this is an amendment relating to environmental rehabilitation in the Upper Mežiški valley. So far, EUR 626 000 has been foreseen in the budget for these purposes and this amendment increases to EUR 1 million in 2008 and the 2009 budget also provides for a million euros to be recovered from heavy metals. This is essentially a financial basis for a programme of measures to improve the environmental situation in the Upper Mežiški valley, which is a time in inter-departmental coordination between the three ministries and will be addressed in a very short time by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I am confident that your fellow Members will unanimously support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u306	Thank you. On behalf of the delegation, Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u307	Regardless of the strange way in which Mr Friday is taking and where he is putting it, we will still support this amendment at Really. After all, given that this matter could have been resolved already when the law was introduced to remedy the consequences in the Mežiški valley, as we have proposed with the law a few years ago, and the law that the Member has rejected, we believe that it is now solving in some way what to do, especially because the Government has not prepared legislation in the meantime to remedy what has escalated in the last period as a very dangerous environmental issue and the threat to the people of the Mežiški valley. If the Government did not realize that it could save otherwise, and if the Member had to rescue only now, it is tragic for this Government. But the opposition will, as I say, stand by her side, because those steps that were promised and could have been remedied by the time my colleague Gantar proposed the law, you did not do so and the amendments would correct the backlog.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u308	Thank you. Mr Zagorac, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u309	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We will also support this amendment in the Slovenian National Party. Unlike before, when I said that Mr Rugelj had convinced me how important that pedestrian crossing was, or the coming on foot, this time, I was not convinced by Mr Petek, who probably wanted to do it at the expense of the people and the environment, at the expense of the pollution that has been occurring in the last year, by the cheap advertising with this amendment, but by the people, the people living in Koroška, the people who are actually threatened by the pollution of this environment, convinced me. [[The ad in the hall.]] Madam President, before that, there was one wish for Mr Jerovska to calm down. I repeat this desire, and I doubt we can see the two of them wrongly. So I respectfully ask you to ensure peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u310	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u311	Thank you very much. But Mr Jerovšek, I don't think so, yet he speaks. Thank you. As I say, in the Slovenian National Party, because it seems to us that the environment and people living in this polluted Carinthian environment are at risk, we will support this requirement to raise funds, despite the fact that you yourself have said that the Government has already allocated some resources to address this programme in that basic part of the budget, both for 2009 and for 2010. But unlike you, who told us that there is some money in the budget, for example, on one road, although we've all found that it's not enough and you've found a reason to oppose the opposition amendments in the wake of the road, we won't be so hairy, we won't be so hypocritical and we won't be so double-minded and we'll be happy to support this amendment of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u312	Thank you. On behalf of the Member of Parliament, Mr Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u313	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Of course, we will support this, because it is an important issue of life in the Valley of Meziska, but I must say that it is a simple, false, false amendment. The matter has certainly already been incorporated into the basic budget text into the figures. Of course, then out pulled out and given to Mr Petk in his hands, so that he can show up before his people in the valley of Mežiška and in Koroška. The possibilities for dealing with these matters more structurally have been much more consistent. After all, the Rehabilitation Act was rejected here. Then, if not, the Ministry of Environment and Space needs to know how much it costs and how it saves, and it could be embedded without these tricks, which are pathetic, in the basic text without these quasi gifts. By strongly condemning such a way of working a coalition and shaking hands with the government, we support the amendment, of course, because it is human. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u314	Thank you. We're moving on to an explanation in our own name. I've got three reported Saiovics, Friday, ziherl, and I'll open later if I have to. Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u315	Thank you very much. I support the amendment. When issues relating to health and environmental protection are on the table, these are undoubtedly questions which do not have and must not have political colours, unless this Parliament joins, how to solve issues such as Lafarge Cement, Mezica, environmental problems of Koper and many Slovenian municipalities in waste disposal, and we do not draw concrete legal solutions that will allow acceleration in these procedures, then Slovenia and Slovenia are poorly written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u316	Thank you. Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u317	Thank you very much. It's true, as Comrade Gulic says. There were a lot of options. In the upper Mežiska valley, the processing of leaded ore is 300 years old, over 300 years old. Colleagues had been in power for 12 years and had done nothing or had privatized companies in such a way that they had all the power, all the companies of the Taiwanese elite. This law, the bill we have rejected here, has provided 650 million dollars for the rehabilitation of the Upper Meziska Valley. As early as last year, 150 million tolars were invested this year, 150 million tolars for the next two years, twice a million euro for drinking water in Montenegro in Koroška, which is burdened with lead, two million tolars have been allocated to this budget for the 2008 and 2009 budgets. Complete recovery, which is foreseen by 2022, costs, colleagues and colleagues, EUR 15 million, and not EUR 2.5 million, as you predicted in that law that only applied to [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and a few meters of asphalt. [[...]] For 12 years, for 15 years, you had time to settle the situation in the Upper Mežíska Valley, and you were unable or unwilling to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u318	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u319	I also support the amendment at the final stage for one reason, because there is also a mine in our area, namely the uranium mine Žirovski vrh, which was visited by the Committee on the Environment and Space and took note of the mine closure procedures in general. Such a procedure, either a uranium mine, or a lead and zinc mine in Mizica, is a long process that lasts for several decades. Certainly, so far, in the 15 years I have missed that it has invested in the rehabilitation and closure much too little, and now with these amendments we are essentially hunting for the delayed or as much quality recovery of the consequences of mining in the Mežíska valley will require a lot more technical, technological procedures and this amendment will allow one phase more in this rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u320	Thank you. I'm opening the application because I've seen more hands. Mr. Gulic, please. In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u321	Of course, even in my name, I will support this amendment. The reasons are the same as in the presentation of the position of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. But let me say that for the first time, I hear that the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia would be 300 years old to be guilty of expropriation in all this time. It is important to know that in previous budgets the funds for recovery were also allocated, not only to the merciless mine, but also to others, where the consequences of long-standing, centuries-old mining have been systematically regulated and have wanted to continue. What you're doing right now is not systemic, but it's budgetary privatisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u322	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u323	Thank you so much for saying that. I myself will support this amendment for a simple reason, because it seems to me that ensuring a healthy living environment is a fundamental human right, and in my opinion it should be a priority for each Government to ensure that each Government has a priority in its programme to ensure a proper clean living environment for the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia, and I point out that the problems that speak about the environmental burdens of the past in Slovenia are still considerable. We therefore expect that such amendments should never be understood as politically prestigious amendments, but should, in fact, be evenly distributed throughout the Slovenian environment and addressed those areas that are needed. I therefore expect that governments will give this issue much more attention, sensitivity and that we will not be Members in that role when we have to draw attention to these problematic environments and to these problems through the content of the amendments, because in Slovenia, I am once again alerting them to a variety of environments which, of course, deserve to be improved by the living conditions in which they live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u324	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u325	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think that the environment is ours, not coalition and opposition, so it is so much more surprising that the person who advocates this amendment on behalf of the coalition says that your Government has done nothing as a defense to the amendment, but, excuse me, it seems that your Government has made too little or nothing that you should correct the state budget with the amendments. I think I'm right here, she's done too little or nothing, because you're correcting the budget, so your government is also in on it, and I'm going to say, "more bovka" as far as this is concerned and how this government goes, I'm going to say, environmental regulation. I read earlier or yesterday that the European Commission for the Environment has warned the Government of the excessive amount of dust in our country, while Maribor has become the most endangered city as far as this is concerned. On 11 January, however, Mr Tauzes received a letter from the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia to draw up a regulation to prevent this. He was told this at the meeting, he got this letter in April, he didn't move until Europe called him. Tomorrow you will discuss this on the committee and these letters will be submitted. That's how this government goes about it, and that's how this government solves it. My eyes on the previous government are still on the table, and you're using it when you just don't have any other excuses and you don't know what to say, so be quiet.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u326	Thank you. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u327	Thank you very much. I will support the amendment, but it is not right for me to draw the funds for this amendment from the budget reserve. This reserve is intended for anything other than this purpose. But there is something to be said, my dears. The former governments have adopted a special law for this purpose, both for the closure of the lead mine and Zinc Mežica, and for the Žirovski Summit. And the governments were so right that they were planning budget funds directly at the departmental ministry. And far from the fact that the previous governments have done nothing. It's a clean bluff that one of you keeps honking. This government, this time our government has a better chance. With such high economic growth, these resources could be directly embedded in the draft budget, without moving now, but we are drawing on the budget reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u328	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u329	Mr Brenčič has taken quite a few words from me, which I agree with, so let me just add that the attention to the solution proposed by Mr Petek was focused somewhere a good month ago. We learned about these amendments at the meeting of the then presidential candidates in Koroška. In fact, because of this context, it has proved to be some kind of political amendment. If the concern was even greater here and if I forgot about the rejected law, then perhaps the solutions that have now been postponed in 2008 and 2009 with regard to the regulation of the cleaning plant and the construction of the cleaning plant have been otherwise resolved. Then custody should be different and Mr Petek could say: Not in 2009. We need a cleaning plant in 2008, because it can start building exactly tomorrow, because all the bases that were, by the way, very late are now complete. In short, the "light motive" that has been rounded up today will still be drawn in a rather false way, Mr Friday, when he said that nothing had been done.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u330	Thank you. Is there anyone else besides the Burner Tavsh? No, then Mrs. Žgajner Tavš you have an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u331	Thank you so much for saying that. Undoubtedly, when it comes to human health, it should not be a problem. It should not be a problem to help those regions, to those who have suffered harm and, of course, to those who have suffered harm and that damage is known to their health. That's why I'm going to support this amendment myself. You know, I must remind you, my fellow Members, that we have recently dealt with the problem of asbestos patients under this Government, and you have collectively said "no" to them. You know, in Mežica, Anhovem, Krškem, the state's design of the environment spends money. No one wonders what's wrong with the suture region. In Zasavje, the congregation, as well as this government, is not prepared to do anything. Instead, in yesterday's broadcast, the official position of the Ministry of Environment and Space was presented by Mr Tauzes, who said that compensation was not the custom when it came to the problem of the Sava region. And when the journalist asked who, because of the stricter legislation required by the European Union, would have to pay the fines, he said that the money would go to the Brussels cash register, not to the people. I'm going to the Brussels cashier's! This is what this Government, the Government of Janez Janša, a respected colleague and colleague does.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u332	Thank you. We're voting on the amendment. There are 55 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 5. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the sub-programme "Planning, water protection and water management: we will vote on Mr Han's amendment. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 36. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. With regard to the Sub-programme, I shall put to the vote Mr Jerič's amendment in case of accidents. Mr Jerič, on behalf of the Group of Members, please. In my own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u333	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! The amendment refers to the area of soil instability or creeping. In the Republic of Slovenia, after the last census of 2005, we have approximately 1,700 registered beaches of such size, small and medium size. Some €90 million would be needed to rehabilitate these beaches, according to expert estimates. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, however, has decided not to increase this item for the rehabilitation of these beaches, but has even reduced it by €6 million. This problem has increased with recent storms both in 2006 and 2007. Let me tell you about the illustration, only in the storm in 2007 did an additional 700 reptiles start. We'll pay a lot of money. If we do not invest now in the area of the rehabilitation of beaches or in the prevention of landslides, the removal of the consequences caused by beaches in the Republic of Slovenia will be much more difficult. It seems irresponsible to me that this item has not increased in all these years to try to reduce the number of beaches that threaten both housing facilities and other infrastructure within local communities. If anyone thinks that the rehabilitation of these reptiles will be carried out by local communities themselves, then he is wrong and irresponsible to this problem. Therefore, I propose that you Members reconsider and that we give this area additional resources and try to reduce the number of reptiles that are urgently needed in our country. I will vote in favour of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u334	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 42. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the Sub-programme Planning, Protection and Water Management, where we have two amendments. The first is proposed by the Really Group of Members, and we will vote on this first. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem, on behalf of the Parliamentary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u335	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Group of Members, we have indeed proposed an amendment that seeks to increase funds for the implementation of the activities of the compulsory State Economic Service for Water Management. In short, we should devote more resources to prevention, to timely action in the regulation of watercourses, streams in our country. It would be wise for everyone today to hear what we said a few months ago, weeks after the last accident that hit us. And then many have pointed out that water - treatment resources are essential, essential, and that people notice that no watercourses are regulated, that they are neglected, that no one cleans them for years, that we do not implement prevention. Of course, then there will be accidents, floods - then these things cost us significantly more than they would cost us if we took care of these things in time. And that's how wise master does it. Unfortunately, however, in Slovenia we are not intelligent masters, and obviously we do not think that this matter is necessary or that we are giving it such masculine resources. Unfortunately, there may also be some cruel truth in the fact that we do not have the amendments made in the watercourses so that we have the individual river budget. And then perhaps individuals would become more involved in watercourses and take care of their environment. Here the item is common, because it is a single Slovenian space and all Slovenian watercourses. We believe that it is a time and a time and a time and a last moment to make a smart move here and yet we also start with preventive work. This means that we begin to regulate watercourses, perhaps even with larger sanitations. Many warn us about this, after all the ends of Slovenia, these problems, including in the southern part of Ljubljana, in Barj, that I am not talking about all other parts of the Savinja Valley and so on. In short, I appeal to the honourable Members to support this amendment today, and thus to provide the means that are lower, only to say this, such as those that will cost us this year to repair the damage caused by the recent floods.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u336	Thank you. Mr. Prevc. In my own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u337	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! I myself will support this amendment, both the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors and the next amendment. The fact is, what we have heard from my predecessor is that maintenance of watercourses has been catastrophic in recent years. That much, much too little money was spent on maintenance of watercourses. It is true that, at this point in the 2008 proposal, much more resources are allocated in the budget, I think that 6 million more than in 2007, but I still believe that there is much too little of these funds. If water management companies really want to maintain watercourses on a regular basis, then there will have to be a substantial number of resources on this item, because we need to know that in recent years this maintenance of watercourses has been a real stepmother, and if these water management companies want to come to some normal maintenance, then there will be a substantial number of resources, and I therefore support both the first and second amendments and also appeal to coalition Members to support these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u338	Thank you. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, for 17, for 38. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. I am putting to the vote the second amendment, namely the Social Democrats' proposer. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u339	Mr. Prevc, I thought you'd like to skip this, because that's under the heading "It's not true, it is." This is an amendment that can be supported by a peaceful soul, according to the government's assurances and even more so by the coalition MPs. So, if it was possible to take three billion with previous amendments, then this government's claim is not true either. The reduction in resources under the technological development item of the Ministry of Defence is not acceptable, as this is necessary, to promote technological development, particularly in areas of interest for the defence purposes of the State. Most of the funds are for co-financing development projects under the Technology for Security and Peace programme. However, other obligations stem from decisions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, agreements between ministries and international obligations already undertaken. Before I heard you explain how you can't spend the money from this item, we took billions, here you say everything is already arranged. So, three statements that don't go together. You said money couldn't be spent. The government says there is no euro available for anyone else. Here's just the continuation of that, because anyway, if they can't spend it anyway, or they can't spend 3 million or 6 million, it doesn't seem to matter. And I suggest someone explain what we're doing. On the one hand, we scatter or draw from those items that I defend in holy faith because I think are intended for a programme of technology for security and peace. The Minister of Defence said yesterday at a press conference that the calls were made this year to prepare them for next year and so on. At the same time, you say: he can't spend them. Understand who can understand that. But speaking of the first part, when it comes to providing weapons and infrastructure capacity, where we're supposed to take 2 million euros, that's exactly half of one vehicle you ordered yesterday. And I'm sure you won't need 9 for these purposes at the time that these funds are foreseen. The peaceful souls can wait until we provide more soldiers than 7,100, and I hope we will talk about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u340	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u341	Thank you very much. I expect this amendment to be adopted for a change from my colleague Anderlich. If I look at what is written about this amendment and the sum is slightly lower, or much lower, than the amendment that we have proposed, but for the same purposes, i.e. for counter-floating measures, for preventive action in this area, then it seems to me that in this sense we would really be doing extremely irresponsible and recklessly if, after this year's experience we have received and after everything that people who are dealing with climate change are telling us, we do not know that serious things are coming to us and that we need to prepare for tomorrow that we will not be affected by the new Railways and similar catastrophes that we have experienced this year. And I don't know how you can sit so calmly and so indifferently, but even in the morning we've been collecting money from this item, from scientific and technological development items, for various, I'll say, rather parliamentary coloured circles, roads, sidewalks and so on. Strictly where, for the miracle of God, there is a coalition member living very close by. Now that we're talking about counter-flooding measures that would actually prevent damage, this huge damage that we're looking at -- let's listen to Mrs Caifez and similar people, and the President of the Government has talked about it for the last time, I think, for the first time, and I was very pleasantly surprised. I hope and I'm almost sure you'll support this amendment, because otherwise I don't know what we're doing in this room. This has happened to us quite recently and to all of us it is still before our eyes, but we will wait calmly again for the next rain or pray, right, right there in the party, who may be doing this a little more intensely so that this would not happen again.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u342	Thank you. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Anderlich, on your behalf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u343	That there will be no misunderstanding, I will support the amendment, because the coalition Members, with the exception of DeSUS, have convinced me that there is too much money here because you have already allocated it and that it cannot be wasted. And there's another reason why I'm going to support this amendment that seems more important to me. This is to avoid possible damage by spending the money from the first part, namely, the chapter on Armouring and Infrastructure Capacity, until that part of the Slovenian State programme that ensures the equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces is aligned with what we will actually have in the future, how many soldiers, what the Slovenian Army will be like and what we will procure. At this point, following the assurances of the Minister and representatives of the Ministry of Defence, as I have quoted several times, you are no longer planning as many soldiers as was envisaged, so this item is not necessary to draw on this and this interest must also be protected. And for that reason, I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u344	Thank you. We're voting on the amendment. There are 60 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 41. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which I am putting to the vote the amendment of the LDS Group to the Sub-programme Receipts and Rights of the Unemployed. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 44. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. I am putting to the vote the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors to the "Increasing Employment" sub-programme. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 45. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. I am putting to the vote the amendments of the Group of Social Democrats, in the Sub-programme Ensuring Social Inclusion. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 59 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 45. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to the sub-programme creating new jobs and increasing the flexibility of businesses, first to vote on the amendment of the LDS Group of Ambassadors, under number 1. An explanation for the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Mr Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u345	We have three amendments if I'm not mistaken about the same item with different amounts. If we are almost discussing individual sections of roads, colleagues and colleagues all day long, then I need to say a word about this item Creating new jobs. When, above all, the Government, and sometimes we Members like to praise that, on average, unemployment is falling as a percentage, or even by number, we still need to take a closer look at what is going on. The situation is far from satisfactory. The decline in unemployment, we know that administrative measures or removals from records or changes in methodology help him little. What is essential is the fact that we have not created and are not creating enough new jobs. A report by the European Commission on employment has just been published, showing a very favourable picture for the members of the European Union, but we are here at the bottom of the scale. We have before us, colleagues and colleagues, 19 Member States of the Union, new and old, who have provided a percentage more jobs than in Slovenia. There are seven countries behind us. The problem is particularly serious in young people, still quite young people finish their studies, especially in less developed areas, in Ljubljana it is easier not to get jobs. A lot of them are also addressed to us Members and other addresses. The problem is still with the elderly. The fact is that we do not meet the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, which we like to refer to and talk about. It is clear that the data showing a backlog for the Lisbon Strategy's objectives that we will not achieve the 70% employment target by 2010 as well. So it is essential that more be done here, both with funds and with the activity of the government and all others involved. Let me also remind you of the European Commission's recent criticism of the activities of these services, specifically employment institutions. And as far as the sources are concerned, I'm sure the government would, if it wanted and had goodwill and listened to our comments, find better resources than we can find. However, if any four or eight bikes are bought less, our defence readiness will not be compromised, and this means a lot in providing quality jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u346	Thank you. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 44. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. I am putting to the vote the second amendment proposed by the ZARES Group. Mrs. Shirca, on behalf of the House of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u347	The three amendments deal with a related problem. But they're very different. The one you rejected and was the amendment of the Liberal Democracy was estimated to be EUR 400 000 and our EUR 200 000 and the next EUR 5 million for additional employment in the welfare centres. I think you're all familiar with the problem, after all, you've been able to look at the messages given on the e-mails, as well as those who have deepened and attended the work committee meeting, the family, where we have highlighted this topic in particular. And what have we concluded? We have listened to social security centres that are committed to increasing the number of employees in educational centres. This number has exceeded all the employment thresholds. For example, the people who are now employed in the training centres have an average of 43 days per year, with an average of 15 days per year at work. People are pissed off because they just don't have help. But there's no employment because it's been frozen for two years. It is now partially defrosted in the 2008 budget as well as in 2009 budget. But not in a way to remedy all those delays that have occurred in the last two, three years. In the training centres, people with mental and physical problems are employed or caught up in them. No problem at all, the government decided to employ when the police, prisons, and military were required to care for the spiritual health of police, prisoners, and soldiers. There was no problem of how many people hire, how to pay them and how to adopt legislation. Today, the problem is when it is necessary to provide very difficult forms of employment and cynicism, which we face when the Government answers to all three amendments that employers have not expressed this desire, but it is difficult to face. I hope that at least this amendment, because at least it hurts, you will support, and surely you will cheer people who expect it not only for the sick, but also for those who care for the sick.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u348	Thank you. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 16 to 44. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. I am putting to the vote the third amendment proposed by the Group of Social Democrats. Mr Gulič, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u349	In my own name. I won't be long. Look, this is a third attempt. Although it is a different number, in any case it would not solve the problem of work centres as it has been shown. In the Committee on Social Affairs we discussed this for a long time and in a broad way, we also had an amendment to the Committee in some way, and later we gave in to the Minister's assurance, but we said that this matter could be settled within the budget. Corrections to be made by the Ministry and nothing. The last of the plant's rescues were the amendments. The three parliamentary groups have responded in some way to the call of employees in the work centres, which can discuss these problems. Protectors in these centers are very difficult, but of course there is no real response. I also appeal to you on behalf of general humanism. There is no party here to support and provide this amendment to people who really cannot do so for various reasons, a person worth living. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u350	Thank you very much. Anyone else? We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, for 17, for 41. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the next amendment, the Sub-programme Social Security Compensation for the Restructuring of Production. Mr. Germich, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u351	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A little earlier, we had considered the amendment of one of the coalition Members, which spoke of the need for certain funds to be earmarked for the purpose of ensuring a healthy living environment, i.e. reducing the burden on the environment. This amendment, which we propose, refers to the adoption of the law in the National Assembly. It's a marriage that talks about eliminating the consequences of working with asbestos. Patients associated with society in the union remind us that, already in 2005, there was a reduction in the provision of the rights of the sick, but by adopting a new law in 2006, i.e. the Act on the Elimination of the Implications in Working with asbestos, it is noted that the law does not apply in the provisions which are essential for the sick. This does not lead to the implementation of Article 12, which speaks of the provision of budgetary resources for the payment of experts, as well as the incorrect implementation of current obligations on the content of retirement and the communication on the content of compensation. It's about specific people, it's about people who have worked in a healthy environment in the past, within the context of substances that have then caused certain health consequences. And given that we have witnessed, in the context of this government's operation, a reduction of funds for these purposes, of course, we expect today, with the support of this amendment, to give a clear message to these people that the law we have adopted means for the National Assembly and for the Government to implement these provisions and that people who suffer the consequences of working with asbestos can expect proper treatment and compensation if the procedures determine that they are entitled to compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u352	Thank you very much. Mr Zagorac, on behalf of the Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u353	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy Club. There are several reasons for this. One of the fundamental reasons is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which I stress, represents all the people in this country, this explanation is that the Government literally makes a fool of people who suffer from asbestososis. You're literally making a fool of yourself. If all of us have previously come together to realize that the environmental impact is not about politicisation, we have supported the amendment of esteemed colleague Petk, Mira Petk, that there will be no mistake, then I ask you to take the same position here. It is an amendment that gives money to people who are actually entitled to it. The law was passed at the National Assembly last year, but because you know what this law allows or makes impossible, in explanation of why the Government rejects this amendment, it says that there was no trend towards increasing claims for damages. Yeah, you don't give them by law! The minimum you give, but it's not worth it. Maybe even because of family ties, I don't know, the commission that was named. You know what I'm talking about, but if you don't know what I'm talking about, you can get a written question on this subject in writing, so you'll be happy to answer it. But you don't give them that right. How do we increase the trend? The other thing I would like to say was a lot of talk when it came to the valley of Mežíží, but I must say that I feel for the people in the valley of Mežíší, as well as for the valley of Zasavská, which are subject to pollution. But the impact of the environment under this law, ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition, you have been repugnant, despite the fact that they have sat on this balcony and begged you. Perhaps one of them is no longer among us, begging you to accept it. If you haven't had a croissant in your head by then, at least today. I thank you for your morality, which I believe you will show in a few seconds, in advance. But if you don't show it, I believe they'll appreciate the election as well as the electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u354	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 37. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the next amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club, the Social Democrats' Group, the Zares Group of Members, the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, the unrelated Member of Dr Gabra. Mr. Germich, please, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u355	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to remind you, colleagues and colleagues, of last year's budget discussion, i.e. amending the 2007 budget, when we were able to make an effort to assess that the work centres need additional resources to meet the needs of persons with disabilities both in body or in mental development who are incapable of living alone and need professional assistance. We made the effort, added resources and built additional spatial capacity. Today, we are faced with a new problem with the same content, where all those dealing with these people need additional resources to be able to implement the programme. We do not follow the provisions of the resolution on the Social Protection Programme, in which we have written down certain regulatory arrangements, so that we will of course follow the content and programme, so that we can ensure adequate numerical inclusion in these programmes and ensure an adequate number of jobs. With this amendment, we have considered this content very carefully at the urgent meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, where the content has proved to be real, that the problem is real, that this area will be in difficulty if it does not receive additional funding. Colleagues and colleagues, it is up to us to decide whether we will want to help people both in physical and mental development by allowing them professional protection so as to allow them to be accommodated in the work centres. And, of course, we expect to follow the arguments presented last year, the arguments put forward by the Committee on Work, Family and Social Affairs in the context of a special hearing at one of the urgent meetings and that we will be able to do so much to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u356	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčich. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u357	Yeah. This sub-programme, to which additional funds are allocated by this amendment, concerns, if I say so in a formal way, the area of mental health. It concerns that segment or that group of people in our society who are so much more vulnerable, most exposed, and for whom parents or those who care for them are often the most powerless. It is normal for the Government to follow what is a legal commitment when it creates a state budget, and this is similar to what is the result of national programmes. With the Resolution on the National Social Protection Programme 2010, we have already initially implemented too low standards. But it couldn't have been any different. The bigger problem is now that we do not follow these standards in the 2008-2009 budget, but that we will increase them in the light of the real needs that are on this segment. To this end, the mother's working body also held a debate on this subject early enough before the budget, with many arguments, only if someone wanted to hear them. I should like to point out immediately that the problem in this regard is the relationship of some coalition parties to these issues, which is so impossible that practically the most elementary minimum decision addressed by the working body of the National Assembly can be reached by the Government in the form of a proposal or anything else cannot be adopted. And it is appropriate that this item is fully maintained. For me, the basic problem is that drawing on funds for this purpose is a little problematic. And I'm asking the same question. Before that, there was no problem of 2 million and a few more euros taken by the Ministry of Defence and put them on the road. Everything's fine and fine. This is the segment that our society, the Government, the National Assembly, should address with the greatest attention and human feeling. And unfortunately we're not gonna make it. Like we couldn't even do on a working body. In our parliamentary group, we will support this amendment in a very nice number. If happiness were to be welcomed, they could still be found in the harmonisation amendment of a solution that would draw on these funds more genuinely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u358	Thank you very much. We are talking about the amendment to the sub-programme Social Protection for Disabled Persons. There is still an explanation of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr Rezman, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u359	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the DeSUS Group, we will all support this amendment for a simple reason, and we have also made it possible in the past that funds have been adopted with the amendment so that the work centres can be built at all. Let me remind you that the funds have been transferred from defence funds to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. And when, for example, a foundation stone was laid in Maribor, the minister who donated the funds was not even invited. I hope that it will now be invited to open this facility in January. Otherwise, we can only repeat what we have said many times, with just a few new numbers perhaps. I would very much like this amendment to be adopted, but I do not have an empty hope, because when I look around the hall, I see that most of those who have proposed the amendment are probably sitting at home now. They're not here. I don't know who will vote for them. Only the SLS and DeSUS will be too small. As far as empirical data is concerned, there are approximately 180 waiting ones waiting for three years at the end of Styria alone. This situation is really better elsewhere in Slovenia, but it is devastating at the end of Styria. Let me remind those fellow Members who are from Šentilj, Maribor and Slovenian Bistrica that there are spaces that are empty, without adequate staff and without the possibility of implementing programmes. About one third of those who should be implementing programs are missing, and about 180 are those waiting outside the doors of beautiful, new spaces. Still, I have some hope. For we on the Committee on Finance, when we spoke about this amendment, voted 7:7, so he was not supported there. And since there are only five opposition members on this committee, it is clear that we have also supported these amendments by two coalition members. And if there were another opposition MP who was missing at the time because he had the Sabbath, this amendment would have been adopted by now. So I hope that these arguments that the Committees have also been supported by the fact that we are being sub-capacitated here, that this argument is enough for us to now decide in sufficient numbers to support this amendment. Those who can't press the "yes" button will do us a big favor if they don't press anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u360	Thank you very much. Does Mr Zagorac have the word on behalf of the Group of Members? [[No, no, ……]] Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u361	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, which is also a signatory to this amendment, allow me to explain my vote, the vote in favour of this amendment. In addition to this mandate, a national social protection programme has been adopted, which discusses quotas, on some of the standards to be achieved in the field of social protection for persons with disabilities in our country. But the fact is, and this has also been pointed out by the Constitutional Court, that we have not met these standards before last year and that, year after year, the situation is worse that we do not follow this situation even with the financial resources allocated to it under the annual budgets. In addition to the fact that the number of those who should be entitled to social security services under such protection is increasing from year to month. I was informed that in December 2006 - this is the official data of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs - was on the waiting list of 569 people in the whole of Slovenia. Do you know what it means to be one person, one person who is mentally injured and who does not receive adequate assistance from the State?Oh, my God! We are talking about 569 people who should be concerned about our country. With this amendment, signed by the opposition Members, we are in fact solving what the Government has not been able to resolve in its programme or in the framework of a harmonised budget for 2008-2009. And when a colleague in front of me said that the capacity wasn't completely occupied. But you know why? Because there are simply no workers because there is no money because the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs does not finance jobs. Already today, there are not enough workers in existing capacities because there is simply no money. This is the reality, my respectable colleagues and colleagues. What I'm asking you right now is - let's all put together, let's gather so much compassion, compassion for these people, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] who really need the help of our country today, not five years from now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u362	Thank you very much. Mr Gulič, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u363	No, in a personal name.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u364	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ma'am mag. Exclusion, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u365	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In principle, the Social Democrats are proposing amendments aimed at increasing active employment policies that support all those programmes that go towards greater social inclusion and which express particular support and concern for people with disabilities. At this point, I do not think that there is a productive debate on how much an amendment on the Committee on Finance has supported them, because that is only support, and in the end it is decided only at the plenary session of the National Assembly. And if we were to look at the previous amendments, there has also been a situation in which there has been no support from the parent working body, and now he has received support from the plenary session of the amendment, and vice versa. Therefore, in this case, I think it is essential to point out that, if I remember correctly, 54% of the employment or compliance with standards and standards in the labour and security centres at this time, after being employed for the number of guards they already have in these centres, that we are not talking about all those who have been numbered several times already listed to be admitted to the labour and security centres. And here is the fundamental problem whether we are opening up opportunities for new jobs or for those who would be willing to take the burden away and also with adequate professional competence to help in those cases where relatives, despite the best of their will, cannot provide good assistance to people who need professional assistance for this work. Therefore, it seems to me that the amendment we have co-signed by the opposition parties is one that could have received support if the coalition Members were willing to see the needs of this group of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u366	Thank you very much. Mr. Gulic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u367	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Look, it's a very simple matter, as far as the explanation is concerned. But it's complicated as far as human destiny is concerned. Here we have a group of people that this country must take care of if it still wants to be considered a socially sensitive society and a social state. In recent years, however, something has invested in walls, beds, technical equipment, and now all these buildings and buildings need to be breathed into life. I know that in building all these buildings, buildings, buying equipment, there are different parameters than in hiring people. There's still some money in there that gets scratched. There's no such thing here. But look, every year there are 100 new citizens and citizens who need this help, which is not in any way possible to obtain it at home or in the basic environment. And that's why there are protective work centers, not to, I don't know, produce, but mainly to treat these people by living a life worth living. Of course, he also includes those who are employed and who can do as much as they can. Data, you've all got them by email, talking about the fact that the employees are already at the edge of their abilities, because they are overburning and the number of diseases due to work and work is increasing. That's why I think it would be good to support this amendment. This would save not only those who are handicapped but also those who are with them. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] They're busy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u368	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u369	Thank you for your word. Dear President! If we have previously identified all together that people in Koroška are in need of air pollution assistance, and if you have found a minute ago in the coalition that asbestos patients do not need your help, then I really think we all need to figure out here together that these people need help. The funds to be allocated shall be allocated to the centres of protection and work, namely those which care for persons with disabilities in physical and mental development. The story is even more alarming in the Styria area. Here I agree with my colleague Rezman, who mentioned the municipality of Šentilj, the municipality of Maribor, where 185 people are waiting because this country, this government, does not follow the standards set out in the resolution. And today we have the opportunity to allow at least some of these waiting ones not to do so again, so that it will not happen as it did last year before the new year, when some of the officers were full of images of some government Members and government representatives of how they were photographed with postcards or cards they make here, today is a real opportunity to give them something, both Christmas and New Year's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u370	Thank you very much. Isn't there any desire to explain any more? We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 34. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We continue with the next amendment, the sub-programme Social Protection of the Old. The proponent is a mag. Janez Petty Officer. Mag. You've got the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u371	The needs for the installation of older citizens are very high in Slovenia, so I have also prepared these amendments and I also expect them to be supported. With regard to the funds from which it is drawn, I can firmly ensure that funds for the purpose of victims of war violence are provided to the legal extent. The State budget itself aims to allocate at the right level, if these resources are not sufficient, additional resources shall be provided and, if they exceed, the funds used cannot be allocated to victims of war violence without a legal basis. Therefore, I propose that this amendment be confirmed, because there are great needs in Slovenia, not least every day I receive mail to intervene with the most necessary assistance to include them in the home of older citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u372	Thank you very much. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u373	Thank you for your word. Comrade Drobnic proposes €5 million for a nursing home, which is about one home with 150 beds. At the moment, there is a shortage in Slovenia for some of these home beds, but the government did not consider it necessary to devote at least a good percentage of these additional funds to this burning area, as if it did not realize that we are a social state, as if it did not realize that we are an ageing society. It is interesting when I read the explanation of the Government by which this amendment rejects, and this rejects the amendment of its former member, who has been asked or unwilling to do so, to whom it has always been admitted that he has behaved as a Member in a delicate manner with his appearance, views and views on the social field. In doing so, the same Government, as the proponent of the supplementary draft budget, increases the rent and rent line by twice this amount, by €10 million, but that is not all, on the basis of €57 million. And in this explanation of its rejection, it behaves so ostensibly that, through rejection, it does not define itself to the problem of missing beds and the subset of this item at all times, but speaks only of the negative consequences on the segment where these funds would eventually be run out, although the draft law on the implementation of the budget provides all the instruments to ensure that if they do not, it is properly returned from other items. This is after something else a signifying amendment. If the criteria on the roads have previously been that the savvy proposals of the Members of the position as professional criteria, let us leave the policy to which some of you are pleading, but this is something contrary. Not only does the post secretary or the post minister not support the former, I apologize, but I hope not because he didn't want to resign himself because they had to resolve him. This is not about Mr Drobnič, this is about the missing beds in Slovenia for the ageing and assistance needed by Slovenia and Slovenia. It's our turn, too, so I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u374	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Genius, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u375	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Surely our parliamentary group, with all four, supports the construction or construction of homes financed by the State and the municipalities, because they do not have too much price in these homes and are accessible to at least a certain circle of those who need protection in these homes. The problem is that this is proposed by a Member who, while he was Minister, advocated not building his home with state money, and developed the theory of public-private partnership and talked about private resources, but forgot to say that in a purely private home care of up to EUR 1,300, in our country there is one such one, and that in the public-private sector the care of buildings is, say, in one cheaper such home 30, 20% higher. That's why we think it's right to support construction, we should take it forward, the problems are big, and 14,000 of our people are in need of domestic protection, and they don't have it today. As a result, in principle such an amendment can be supported, but here the heading from which it is taken is wrong. Wrong because I assume that there is enough money planned there because we should adopt a law in accordance with the Constitutional Court decision on victims of war violence, with which a large contingent of discriminated victims will enter the law, and money must be provided there, otherwise we must not adopt this law and we cannot if we are to pick up what is becoming. I'm in favour of doing this and closing the problem. Why we haven't done this before, coalition partners know exactly. In short, we will not oppose this amendment, but we cannot support it. The purpose is good, and I may even say it, maybe Mr Petty Officer is earlier, and now he thinks as he suggested. Then it would be right for him to say, when he was a minister against construction, that he had to take this policy in the wrong direction, and maybe it was one of the reasons that he was suspended because he was slowly in a situation, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] when he had to do something that was contrary to his belief today expressed in this area. [[...]] In principle, I agree with thinking, which is why we will not object, but we cannot support it for these reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u376	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u377	Mr. Squirrel, you're a squirm! This amendment really shows what is what science says: "Don't listen to me, what I say, but look what I'm doing." Or rather, "Don't look at me, but listen to what I'm saying." Yes! Some of this has already been explained by Mr Žnidaršič, which I agree with. There is no doubt that we will probably not be able to build these houses in private or in partnership with private capital, and that it would be right for the state to participate here. I support you. But the source isn't real. With the balance, you've reduced the funds for these transfers. And I know that you are an ardent advocate, that all right-holders, with a constitution guaranteed, and especially when it comes to the victims of war violence, when it comes to war veterans, especially, want the fighters not to receive and get some others. This is known from the discussions that were held in the National Assembly and elsewhere. But this is where the government wrote correctly, said that this was not going to work, and that there was something you just needed to do for what you had to do. After all, some things will be settled in one way or another, and even the institutions have received tremendous compensation from this title. You know what institution I'm talking about, the government has probably withdrawn that other part of the agreement now, so that the President of the Government will probably not go to the Vatican with the government's decision to finance it. And you know what I'm talking about, it doesn't make sense not to move away from the amendment, but to advocate so persistently that some categories that are affected in one way or another reduce rights like you are doing, but it's not quite capable. But here you have no real limit, because, as I say, you would like to change the structure and some others would get from this title when the law comes, we'll see what you bring, it'll probably be seen. And because this is not the purpose to take only those who have these rights under the Constitution, I cannot support this amendment, because it is a real reflection of some incorrectness and an extension of some relationship from the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u378	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak. I'm sorry. When I turned my head, he was a magician. He's still practicing there. Mr. Mikolitch, you have the floor. Mr. Mag. The drill's failing.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u379	Thank you for your word. Just an explanation of this amendment that certain matters will be clear. Given that the amendment proposes our fellow Member of the Mags. Petty Officer, I've been looking into the Ministry or the Minister for this amendment. The answer was as follows, so it is also right to say here today. At a meeting last week, the government also addressed the issue of building houses for the elderly in Slovenia and decided that certain financing for the construction of a home in Slovenia should be allocated from certain assets that are at the property fund of the ZPIZ. I know the matter is probably not that simple, because legislation will also have to be adapted appropriately, but it was a decision of the Government. It is said that the Government is certainly working towards more funding for this area, because I am also sure that only from private resources will we be able to build those much-needed homes for the elderly in Slovenia in the future. I just wanted to make it clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u380	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u381	Thank you so much for saying that. I kind of understand this amendment and I'd like to say the following. Today it is true that in the Republic of Slovenia we have quite a few homes, which were built with private capital and some of them are being built at the moment. At least in our immediate vicinity, that's how it is. As far as private homes are concerned, the truth is that these homes are a little more expensive, I don't know if 20%, 30%, as my colleague Žnidaršič said, but it's a difference. Once this competitive condition is sufficiently established, there will be no more reasons for these homes to actually be more expensive. Perhaps with a number of state resources, as colleague Mikolić said and as we have also received an answer, this could be accelerated and this matter balanced as soon as possible. The fact is that the pressure and expectation of admission to a home is increasing. Somehow, I expected this amendment to bring a debate against Comrade Petty Officer, and we told him somehow. But I would say that, as far as ferocity is concerned, our colleague Anderlich's fidelity is rarely exceeded. In his debate, he confused everything, from the fighters, the victims of war violence, the Vatican, and everything that came to his mind came before the Slovenian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u382	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u383	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this amendment, even though colleague Anderlich said that Mr Petty Officer is very clever. But I am not afraid of this ingenuity, because even if the amendment is adopted, because the legal basis for what it says is to be taken from the victims of war violence, the government will have to provide funds for it. So, dear colleagues, we can peacefully vote in favour of this amendment. I am informing Mr Žnidaršič in particular, because then the Government will have to look for this and we will achieve our purpose. And I think that the purpose of this amendment, in order to provide more resources for building a home, is to be absolutely supported. This country is building absolutely little, I think everyone is doing more than the state. I myself know what municipalities do and how municipalities work with land, the search for concessionaires, investors, I speak mainly for the area of central Slovenia, where this issue is the worst and where certain criteria in the ministry are such that they show that there are actually enough beds and the situation is in practice quite different. The interest in these urbanised areas is greater than that of people getting the city, and I think this is necessary. I must also say this because it is a place to say this, and unfortunately in concessions we note that in recent years these concessions have been awarded with some feeling and priority to those associated with the Church, while lazi concessionaires hardly come to concessions in what case, that I do not say that there are more hundred and one hundred who would also be interested in this form, but unfortunately cannot. So I say we can just support this, and there'll be money for what's missing.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u384	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u385	Thank you very much. Look, I know just so much about the structure of the budget at the Ministry of Labour that we cannot possibly expect the Minister to be able to finance a system of war violence or compensation on the sub-programme and all that is financially sitting on this sub-programme. That is why I think my colleague Drobnic knows this very well because he was preparing the budgetary structure to make this impossible. But something's true, and that's why I can't support the amendment. But something's true. This time we accept the state budget for two years. Now we have a balance. And if, on the basis of realistic assessments of the situation in the institutional guardianship segment for the elderly, they accepted an evaluation such as this, then in the two-year budget through the Government programme, which cannot be the decision of the Government, as Mr Mikolič said, would put this programme into budget support. Whether we finance it in the field of the sale of certain state property, or whether we finance it together with municipal budgets, as we have already done, but we need a government programme. It's not like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u386	Thank you very much. And Mr. Janc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u387	Thank you very much, Chairman. One more time. I won't support this amendment, which doesn't mean I'm not against housekeeping or building new homes. But all of these items, where you see sources of budget users, are already known, once here once there, once the General Staff of the Slovenian Army, it just doesn't work. However, I believe that no one in this House is opposed to building new homes for the elderly. Nobody. This is what we all want, whether through the budget or through a public-private partnership. No one is against employment, no one is against social security, no one is against water regulation, no more roads, no more schools, no more culture. We all want it, but the bag is just like it is, ladies and gentlemen. You can't pull 200 out of this bag if there's only 100 inside. That's not working. And it is necessary to understand some things that all of these desires we all have, both members of the coalition and the opposition. When we talked about roads before, we all want roads at all ends, but it's not all going together. It just can't be closed. And it is necessary to have a little patience, to have respect for the government, to the proponents of this program, so that we cannot draw more than we can get in. And that is why I think that these debates will continue, certainly back in 2009, certainly what else should be in there, but at the end I see that the most, I stress the already known fact, is that most of those who want to close the Slovenian Army tomorrow, to stop it from being gone, and that they will draw all the money from there. But it's not working out again.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u388	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u389	Thank you very much. I think what has already been said in the debate today is true. Several measures are needed in this area. One of them must be the one that ended at the end of October. The country, as you know, has tendered, I think, over 1,500 new places in concessional homes. The second measure, however, is that the assets of the real estate fund of pension and disability insurance are used more effectively. Why this fund? Because it's exactly this sphere. The Fund manages so-called pension apartments. If we look at business in previous years, we can find that it has made a significant profit all year round. At one billion and a half, I also speak Slovenian tolars, revenues and billions of expenditure, about half a billion at the annual surplus level. That's not necessary. These funds must be in the function of providing adequate conditions for the institutional protection of the elderly. They devote part of the funds to so-called well-sustained housing, but it is certainly right that my colleague Mikolić said that the Government, with what it has accepted, intervenes in ensuring that these funds are provided in a more operational direction. The other thing, some, I don't know why, is being disturbed by those homes with concessions they have in the management of various Karitas. These are relatively few, colleague of Zalokar Orzmova. Here I have the website of Deos, which is the largest concessionary, as far as these beds are concerned in the Republic of Slovenia. They have a unit of Gornji Castle and Medvode, this is Zbiljski Gaj, Cerknica and so on, they are planning new ones. If I count these beds, this company alone has over 500 seats for the elderly. So it's right that we're talking about data that's real and that's standing, and not that we're shaking something out of the sleeve that's not holding. I think it is right that these funds are provided from different sources, and thus I believe that this budget is also oriented.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u390	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 36. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We continue with the next amendment, the social protection of the materially endangered is a sub-programme. The proposaler is the Liberal Democracy Chamber Club. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 45. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We continue with the amendments, namely the Ministry of Health, the sub-programme Editing and Monitoring the Health System. Amendment of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy. Here you go, Mr. Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u391	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. This government, by amending the 2008 budget, introduces a new item in the field of the Ministry of Health: Health Care for the Socially Introduced. When we read the explanation of the reason for this item, we see that the Government is trying to release payments with EUR 4 million to certain categories of insurers for whom payments of supplementary health insurance premiums are a great financial burden. As we read the explanation, we see that this law, which is not yet in existence today, is what we are talking about amending the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, should define it as a legal provision. And the explanation in the papers is as follows. It is said that more than a year and a half of difficult negotiations with social partners have been recorded in this amendment of the law, that criteria have been established which are these insurers and that these insured persons are estimated to be around 64,000 in Slovenia. Given that in 2009, it is possible to see that these funds are twice as much, i.e. EUR 8 million, the question arises as to where is the reason why this government, which is an electoral year in 2008, is in fact expressing such concern after almost two years of negotiations with the social partners to allow this number of people to be freed from payments. In fact, if this government were to allow this weak social population of Slovenia and the Slovenians to exempt from these supplementary health insurance premiums, it would be asked why this government did not want to do so in 2005, not in 2006, nor in 2007, and why it is not in a hurry to adopt this law, at least since it has already laid down the criteria for determining this number in order to accept it at least in 2007 and to devote the full value of payments to these social weaknesses in 2008 at least. Since it seems to us that, as also stated in the coalition contract, it is necessary to provide this number of people living on the social side as soon as possible, the exemption from this supplementary health insurance is proposed to provide for the 2008 amendment [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] funds equal to those foreseen in 2009 for this purpose. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u392	Thank you very much. Mr Zagorac, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u393	Thank you for your word, Madam President. We will support the amendment in the Slovenian National Party. We will support him because the opposition's intentions here and the coalitions are finally identical once. All congratulations on my side to the government coalition. You remember something good for those who don't have it in this country. You remembered this when you didn't give socially endangered supplements, when you didn't take care of asbestos patients, when you carried out a tax reform that exempts taxes or facilitated taxation of the richest, not the poorest. But here in health, you remembered. Last but not least, health is the most important thing that can't be bought, even though you buy election votes with it. But this is your policy, this is your way and this is your morality. And as moral as you are, you will be happy to support this amendment, which will raise the entire story to eight from four million and thus satisfy the 64 thousand people who are entitled to it. I don't think anyone will object if your intentions are real, if you really want to help those in this country who have not been made by the previous government, but your government, so expensive and inaccessible, allow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u394	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. He's a freshman. Please, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u395	On behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you so much for saying that. As far as this debate is concerned, I think that, above all, from this first part, the discussion by my colleague Germić has been followed by a little hypocrisy. If that were not the case, then you might be even easier to understand, but you know all the time why the law has not yet been adopted, you know who was against who had the greatest reservations when these laws were adopted. And even at this point that we're talking about today, at this point, the unions objected to these things being settled. At that point, however, they opposed how these funds were to be provided for the socially weaker. And our mission, our desire has been from the very beginning - this law at this point was adopted as soon as possible. However, we could not agree at the point whether it should go directly from the health insurance, from the insurance undertaking or from the budget. And now that we have achieved, in the negotiations already in the first half of this year to settle this with the resources of the budget, you are somehow contesting this in the sense that this should be the same for the whole year as it is foreseen when you know well that this is not possible, because today is November and the law cannot be adopted if it goes through a regular procedure earlier than in half a year. And you know it. Like me, that's not possible. Therefore, the funds envisaged were as set out in this proposal. The main reason, however, is to protect those who are socially weak and to provide them with supplementary health insurance in a form such as that of others with easy access. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u396	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u397	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, I believe that if there was a will, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would also find reasons and file a law by emergency procedure if it was coordinated in the first half of 2007. If we have been able to adopt laws tabled by the Government following an emergency procedure in this House, but only some ratifications or instructions from the European Union have been touched, then I believe that it is also an urgent procedure for the adoption of a law that will facilitate the situation of socially disadvantaged people in our country. So I just don't understand why we would wait for a law that is on the one hand necessary, which was harmonised already in the first half of 2007, and which is finally favored by the government coalition. We support the amendment, we provide the same funds as we have provided for 2009, otherwise I fear that this is really just and only another populism move that you will put into the parliamentary procedure just before the elections. August, September 2008, that wouldn't be fair. I will, of course, support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u398	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Germich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u399	Thank you for saying that again. How to understand that hypocrisy is evident to the amendment's proponents, saying that the criteria and negotiations were reached in the first half of 2007 and that, because there is no law today, it is our fault that we are guilty of the opposition that this government has only proposed for half a year, and this is indeed the wrong world. The Minister who led these negotiations says that, six months ago today, in November, he did these things in such a way that things would have been harmonised, but he did not make an effort to ensure that on other points the law defining this matter was not harmonised, that at least at this point the law would have been incorporated into the parliamentary procedure and that this content could be discussed. I have only pointed out that in 2009 there is twice the amount in 2008 and that it would be correct to adopt this law, which also defines this right as soon as possible. And it is very unfair for us to be exposed to hypocrisy and to be ascribed to us to understand all the problems of this ministry, which is manifest to it in many ways around social dialogue, while around the inability that the Government has not been able to change at this point, at this particular point, and to transmit the text of the law to Parliament so that these people actually want to help and do so by amending the law. So that I will express my support for this amendment, and I also expect that the Government, given that we expect this to be harmonised for six months, will transfer this text to Parliament immediately and allow for the release of payments as soon as possible to those for whom the Government itself proposes it in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u400	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. He's a freshman.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u401	What I'm talking about is hypocrisy applies to that part of your implementation when you were talking about how this law could already be passed in 2005, but that's not possible. The negotiations lasted 18 months, and at the end of the negotiations, the social partners somehow praised the entire system of cooperation during the negotiations and also expressed their appreciation, not only for the negotiations, but also for the results. As for the adoption of the law, however, the agreement on payment was only one part of the law to be made from budgetary resources, while some other things were still being negotiated at that time and are now, as I know in the final phase, agreed, and so I do not think there was anything left behind, there is no law to be passed before it is fully harmonised and it was agreed that money for the implementation of this part of the law should be obtained from the budget but not from the funds of the health insurance undertaking. That is why I must reject all these suggestions and, above all, that we have not worked closely with the social partners at this time on this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u402	Thank you very much. Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u403	I will support the amendment, because it seems to me that the matter is already so critical that it is good that people get this money as soon as possible, not without lunch just on a cake that will arrive just before the elections. As for these speeds and obstacles the Ministry has in negotiating with the social partners, I believe there are sometimes problems, but there has been enough time. And since you say that relations and conversations with the social partners were constructive, that they ran well, I don't know why they took so long. It is true, however, that at that time the Ministry was also dealing with some other matters that were in a great hurry, which had to be brought through very quickly, and then those who were burdened by the budget were waiting. At the same time, they are also timed so that we can certainly talk about part of the budget being used for the pre-election campaign of SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u404	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, I would only remind you that we are talking about amendments, and now this is a general debate. In a specific case, this was now a general debate on health. So once again, I warn you, we are discussing various amendments. And I would ask if you could take this into account and not discuss it in a broad way. It is an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members and an explanation of the vote on its behalf to the specific amendment. Thank you. It's Mr. Mag's turn. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u405	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the warning, too, because I thought the former minister was here explaining why he didn't do something. I think the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club has been amended by the amendment, if it is indeed the will to implement it by the Government. This is the most normal amendment we could have. However, what is not normal is that the Government did not submit a law related to this until 1 October. Remember Mr President of the Government's discussion on our question that we have a problem with the 2009 budget, because there are no changes envisaged under the Land Financing Act. And that we have a big dilemma, what we now accept, which budget - the one that assumes that municipalities get all the money from income, and the difference between the state, or the one that will give some money to the provinces. And so we have a big mix-up in the 2009 budget. Here we have clearly, the government is proposing 4 million, it has been found that 4 million is not enough and an additional 4 million is proposed to solve this problem throughout 2008, if that is the political will of course. And the stories that now, as you said before, there is no law yet and that there is no law without knowing when you will implement suggest that you intend to introduce such a thing in the election year immediately before the elections. I am interested in how these statements of individual public sector unions will really end and when they will be implemented.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u406	Mr. Mag. Squeakle, let me do this. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I warned him, you don't have to. Thank you very much. Now you have the floor, Mr. Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u407	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The proposed amendment cannot be supported, and I will not support it either, because it relates to the resources that will be needed if the law is adopted. The law will be adopted as planned in the first half of next year. For the second half, however, appropriations are foreseen in the budget. And every fuss about how it would be and why there was once more funding foreseen in 2009 is pointless. For 2009, it is normally envisaged that the law will then be in force and also for the second half of the following year. I won't support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u408	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u409	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I'm a little surprised myself, yes, because the coalition should be introducing a new item with the desire to seriously please people by screaming and singing with joy that we have proposed such an amendment. If the law is passed, we have enough money if the law is passed. Since when does this depend on the opposition or will the law be passed or not? Let me tell you a big one. You're grinding, this machine grinds, it rarely gets stuck. That coalition machine's just grinding. And, my friend Bručan, I'm sorry, I can't tell you anymore, Minister, because you've got yours all messed up, which you could have done. Since when? [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u410	Mr. Zagorac [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u411	Since when does the opposition do this? [[...]] Since when has the opposition affected the adoption of the law? Then I fear for the 2008 and 2009 budgets if the opposition has that effect. Then I'm really scared. What a terrible opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u412	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please. There's no replica, you know that. Excuse me, Mr. Anderlich. Mr. Badger procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u413	Mr Vice-President, you have previously warned yourself that only amendments should be discussed. All that has been discussed by my colleague, Mr Zagorac, is not in terms of the debate on amendments or the explanation of vote, but I believe in particular that there are not so many insults in this House that my colleague Zagorac today gives in his explanation of vote. I'm asking you to start warning him. He can't do every amendment when he just calls in and insults the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u414	Mr. Jazbec, you must have heard that I warned him now at the end. That was the first one. I didn't think I should have warned him about his speech before. Secondly, about everything you have just said, in fact, you highlighted what I just said earlier, that we are talking about amendments and that we are not discussing in general what we were doing yesterday and the day before. Today is the explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group or personal name, so we will continue to do so, and Do you have a procedural or will you debate? [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u415	Thank you for your word, Madam President. It seems to me that your echo's procedural proposal was so good that it would be wise to put it to the vote and please do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u416	Thank you very much. I didn't think that was necessary. Mr. Anderlich. What do you have, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u417	What do I got? [[...]] [[Laugh.]] I got 30 euros in my pocket. [[...]] [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u418	Wonderful! In your own name? [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u419	Yeah, sure, sure. They're mine. They're mine. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] These are mine, believe me, they're mine. [[...]] These are mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u420	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u421	The chairman has disturbed me. Please give me my time back. I'll support the amendment. Of course, I'm from hour to hour, not more insecure, but more concerned, sad or whatever you want. I recall here the debate on some other budget items when the President of the Government assured that things could not be included in the budget if there was no legal basis. We have been in good faith that what has been said is that the law is ready, harmonised and that it will also be in procedure this year and adopted by the end of the year. Now we hear you're still studying and there won't be a second year in the first half of the procedure. This means that we could not even introduce this basic item into the budget. Really. My support for the amendment went away, even when we were preparing it I said okay, because after the emergency, I don't know what procedure they're going to adopt by the end of the year. With 1.1, this will start to apply and it will be necessary to provide some more money for this item for the whole year in order to make any sense of it. So tell me whether you intend to put this law into practice at the time when this change of budget will enter into force or not. Otherwise, as it is said, I will support the amendment, but I don't know if it even lasts legally, given that the President of the Government says that the provincial legislation and I don't know what money can't be given because there is no legal basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u422	Thank you very much. Obviously, there is no more reported, so we are starting the vote. The vote is under way. There are 54 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 40. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We continue with the next amendment Investment investments in hospitals, subroutine, proposed by the Liberal Democracy Club. Mr Ljubo Germič, on behalf of the Group of Members, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u423	Thank you very much. So in the LDS Club, we propose to provide an additional €5 million on the budget line - Investment investments in hospitals. If we only follow events in the last 14 days, events at the Clinical Centre in Ljubljana, if we are monitoring the problems of the Oncology Institute, we can see how much funding is lacking for the rehabilitation of the very difficult situation within these two institutions. When we talk about having doctors warn us that very obsolete equipment is available, we do not allocate additional resources to enable quality diagnostic procedures and then procedures in certain health services during the treatment phase. The secretary cancelled the call for equipment at the neurological clinic. The move is being questioned. It is possible to see in the public eye that we will raise millions of euros with donations. How do we picture the Slovenian health system when we are actually starting to regulate all things with donations. And when we read doctor interviews, in fact, they only count on donations on all segments. But colleagues and colleagues, nothing is free. You know, last-stage donations aren't free either. Above all, it is not possible to imagine the promise made by the Ljubljana Clinical Centre, the patients in the clinical haematology department to improve spatial capacity, improve working conditions in this section and better treat these patients when they move some of these from these capacities to a new neurologic clinic. How promises are made to people, and we provide insufficient funds for these segments. I will not talk about hospitals all over Slovenia, as other amendments will also speak in favour of the need to increase funds in general on this item, not only for certain needs of individual hospitals, but generally, in order to enable significantly better conditions for Slovenes and Slovenes in the diagnostic phase and in the treatment phase and then in the rehabilitation phase. So this is about 5 million funds, and I would like to point out to the coalition that in 2005 it reduced its balance sheet item, this item by EUR 11 million. And I suggest, colleagues and colleagues, let us listen to the issue of investment in hospital investment treatment and give additional funds to this item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u424	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u425	No, on my own. I'll vote against the amendment. Because you can't possibly convince me that you're serious about this amendment. You're bluffing, you're bluffing, and it's clear that you've been bluffing all day watching the results of the vote, in fact, the results of these results are clear evidence that you're not serious. Few more than 10 of your opposition members support your opposition amendments. If this is serious, then "hello" please kindly, not even that business needed majority of you are sitting in the joints when we accept your so important and important [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u426	Mr. Sušnik, will you please give us your opinion on the amendment?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u427	I said I wouldn't support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u428	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 39. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We continue with the further amendment, secondly, the drafter Germič Ljubo. Here you are, Mr Germič, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u429	No, on my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u430	In my own name. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, too, Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u431	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll draw your attention to the emergency centre in Maribor. I hope to live again or I will not experience the obvious that an emergency centre in Maribor is not a problem. That the emergency centres in Slovenia are the problem is proven by this Government, which has earmarked €5.5 million of additional resources in the 2008 budget for emergency centres across Slovenia. But it turned out to be an emergency center in Maribor. And for the start of this investment, we propose that the Maribor Emergency Centre also be involved in the investment project. That the amendments that we are putting in place have some salt, you will see in the amendments that you have tabled in the field of health. Isn't that interesting? We're bluffing, we're talking nonsense, and then you're going to film our amendments, which you're going to propose, because we proposed them, and I'm going to comment on the amendments below. And this amendment speaks of the fact that, of course, the emergency centre that we are planning in the Government's work programme under the development programmes for 2011 is getting faster dynamics, as there are plans for this project to start in 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u432	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u433	The dilemma is, of course, very serious, whether to talk about it or simply to listen to the observations of the Master of the Sušnik that we have nothing to say here. I'm sorry, my fellow Member. Members have the right to express their views and to explain this here too. What Mr Germić proposes is to support. However, it is to be supported because of all the delays in the development programme plan resulting from a corrupt and clientistic act in the implementation of health investments. And, gentlemen, we warned you two years ago that the amendment to the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures, which enabled so-called decisions that are political decisions, results in what we have today. Why there is no money for the General Hospital Slovenj Gradec, Maribor and so on. Since the ministers have taken the money, the minister will also have to cover all kinds of nonsense and unnecessary funds. And if, of course, some Members here feel that we should not even talk about this, then this is the abolition of democracy. That is why I have come to my attention, although I agree that it would be appropriate to continue working today and to conclude this. But no, of course, here to go some all-powerful, in narration, leaders who will dictate what we will do. Last but not least, this unfortunate emergency in Maribor would have been included in the budget if Mr. Gregor Pivec had won. However, it is not and is therefore being pushed into the development programme plan in 2011. Please! There's another medical school. We need a clinical center and it starts with an emergency center. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u434	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u435	Thank you. I will, of course, support this amendment. The real point of these moves in 2011 was pointed out by my fellow Member of the Mag. Exercise, however, needs to be re-emphasized, as we know when the next local elections will be. Something nice happened with regard to the medical school in Maribor, and we know how those things went. I think that health care and infrastructure should also be invested because I am an advocate of the public health network and because I do not believe in donations that they are going to happen so well. I remember some announcement, some strong donations to the operating tables, which was such a very rude manipulation of emotions and with the understanding of people. Sometimes donations are just in words, and in fact, something else is going on in the back. I must say that all these amendments that Ljubo Germič is investing with the necessary charge and interest in regulating the health network are worthy of support. And I intend to support them further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u436	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u437	Thank you for your word. Dear President! I come from a wider Moroccan region myself, and I really think that the amendment, as proposed by the honourable colleague Germić, is a real amendment in place. This money is really needed by the Maribor E.R. I myself will support all the amendments when it comes to the sub-programme Investment Investments in Hospitals, because I feel the same way about roads and health, that this is the key thing that people need to be able to do. I certainly do not accept the impressions of a respected coalition colleague who said only ten of you are in favour of the opposition amendments. You know, yesterday was the day when the amendments were explained when we had this opportunity to convince you, dear colleagues from the coalition, that some amendments were worth it. We've had more time to convince you, but I have to say that a few of the colleagues I see here today after the buffet, I didn't see them yesterday. My friend Pojbich, all day. Comrade Sušnik, I didn't see you either. Respect for Mrs. Irgle, because you were here, Your Honor, Mr. Ambassador, because you were here, you were respected. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u438	Mr. Zagorac, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u439	At the end of the hearing, when there was no vote, there were seven of us, not ten of us from the opposition. Seven of the 90th Members. So, Comrade Sušnik, sooner or later it drops on your head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u440	Mr. Hwauc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u441	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. See, if the budget were to be adopted in such a way that at the end of the day, there would still be a free fund to which all Members could intervene or, in excusable or unjustifiably, comply with their proposals, then I would immediately support this proposal from the distinguished colleague Germić. I know that there is a need to invest in a Maribor hospital or health care, and I agree that there is a lot of improvement to be made there. But if we are to propose something, it is also necessary to provide adequate resources. Someone needs to take something again and, in my opinion, in a way that this amendment is prepared, it is said that something is being taken from a particular budgetary user, so that it will probably be more difficult to make these investments. But I'm going to be honest with myself when I say that there's still a lot to invest in the Maribor hospital, but then when we get to some other amendments that have different sources, I'm going to vote differently in this amendment when I'm against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u442	Yes, Mr. Zagorac, what do you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u443	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Would you please? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u444	Wait, I didn't give you my word. Before you spoke, you didn't say you were speaking on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u445	No, no, I have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u446	Then tell me, please. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u447	You gave your word when you asked me what I wanted. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u448	The only thing I can do is give you a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u449	Thank you for letting me do this. I would ask you to follow the grimas of individual colleagues from the coalition who nod opposition Members, who we do not agree or anticipate something - colleague Pojbič is now nodding, but I believe that both my colleague Žgajnereva and our advisor have seen his grimas, which have been happening, even some kind of threat, "I also have something for you" was understood from his lips, which were loud enough. And that wasn't his first way of doing it, because we know what he's been doing to his friend Brick. Therefore, I ask that you prevent such nonsense, donkey pranks and these variants in the future, because they do not honor this assembly and not the Members who represent the people here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u450	Thank you very much. From now on, I'll keep an eye on it. [[A laugh in the hall.]] We're voting. 58 Members and Members voted, 16 to 41. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We continue with the 3rd Amendment, Investment Investments in Hospitals, proposed by Germič Ljubo. Mr. Mogue, procedurally? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u451	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. It seems that entropy in this National Assembly is on the rise, which is not surprising, given what we are doing. I think he's giving up his attention. First of all, I would warn you that there shows that there are 81 of us in here and we're not, I'd say, decimated, but there are even so many of us that we can accept the constitution. If that is not the case, make sure that the number of cards in the voting machine is as high as we are, otherwise abuse may occur. And secondly, I would like to ask you, because we have been working for a really long time, because there are a lot of amendments and because there are some colleagues and colleagues, perhaps even sometimes, taking advantage of the fact that they are not justifying the vote here, but are discussing and amalgamizing each other, which is essentially the tiredness of this National Assembly and the quality of the National Assembly. Therefore, I ask you kindly as chairman, tell us, because now we are just toward the end of one financial year, and we are already working 8 hours, when we will be working, according to you, by when you will have a meeting of the National Assembly and when you plan to give us free time for dinner, or whatever we call it, even for a little rest.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u452	Thank you very much. There have been a lot of truths about what you said, I agree. I would suggest that we continue with these amendments until the end to complete this consideration of the amendments and also the meeting, if we can complete it, I hope that, especially with recommendations, we will say more. At that time, I hope that we will also discuss with Mr President how to respond to your proposal. Do you agree to proceed with the amendments? Please. In the personal name, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u453	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, I have tabled an amendment myself, which is listed in the review number 3 in the field of the Ministry of Health, i.e. the user. This is about millions of euros for radiotherapy in Maribor. We know that the only radiology department is formed in Ljubljana. We also know about the Radiology Department in Ljubljana that there are not all the conditions for installing the eighth device. Given that the concept of treatment of cancer patients with radiotherapy is estimated to be 50 percent or more in the professional circles. This means that we urgently need another radiology department in Slovenia. At the principal level, the professional level in the development of the University Clinical Centre has somehow decided to develop a radiology department, i.e. the second radiology department within the Maribor Clinical Centre. That this amendment has a series of arguments and a substantive basis proves that we are not bluffing. An amendment of a coalition that actually provides more resources. I will also be happy to support the amendment of the coalition, which provides more resources for the launch and implementation of the second radiological centre in Slovenia in Maribor than I have proposed. On this basis, I assess the support of this amendment that support for this amendment or support for the amendment under the coalition is essential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u454	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 37. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We continue with the next amendment, as proposed by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u455	Thank you very much. Let me explain these amendments. What is important is that the financial resources for the project, the regional project of the hospital in Trbów, have already been provided in the budgets. EUR 7 million for 2004 and 2005. Another new fact that followed was that these funds had miraculously disappeared, unknown anywhere, without any papers. And when we wanted to get an answer to the question where the money was already provided in the budget, we simply got the answer that the funds were being made or I apologize that the papers were lost. So, at this moment, I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, if I may have a moment of your hearing.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u456	A colleague of Zginer's asked for something. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u457	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to explain, because even yesterday, when we discussed this amendment and yesterday's amendment, you were not in the hall, so please listen for a moment. It's a, I'll point it out again, a regional project. Some of you have said today that the budget is development-oriented, that it is also oriented in line with the Slovenian regionalisation project. I say that in this case it is a regional hospital, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concluded with a conclusion. The funding for this project, the new regional hospital, was provided in the budgets of 2004, 2005, 7 million euros. That money's gone, no one at the Ministry knows where. I spoke to the Minister of Finance today, Mr Andre Bajuk. He said that the funds had been redistributed. With all due respect to the future users of the Paediatric Clinic, to the extent that the funds went there, with all due respect to the users of the Oncology Institute, to the extent that the funds went there, but you know, a lot of these funds went into the private pocket as well, and that's not fair. That is why I ask you, my fellow Members, today to support the financial resources to a lesser extent than they were once provided in the budget years ago. That's all this is about. I believe that it will be difficult to get the support of the government majority, so I hope in particular the words spoken today by my colleague Tanko, the leader of the SDS Group, when he said that the SDS Members are sovereign and autonomous in their decision, especially now I will wait for this, Comrade Tanko, to make this promise you made. As long as this amendment does not go through, I will say domestically, but I hope that at least the Minister of Finance will keep the promise made by my colleague Gulic that part of the funds will still be transferred within the existing budget for a surplus device called CT, which is not the only one in Slovenia. Once again, I would like to ask you, dear colleagues and colleagues, to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u458	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u459	On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u460	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u461	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! We will support this amendment for reasons of principle, because the amount of health resources in this budget has decreased. On the other hand, we also need to support some peripheral hospital, not just the Clinical Center in Ljubljana or Maribor, although I do not oppose the development of another clinical centre with a medical faculty. In doing so, I would like to say that the funds already provided in 2004 and 2005 may also be missing within 18.8 billion illicitly spent assets in the UKC in 2005, against which are the 7 million coins. Interestingly, no one has ever been responsible for this and there have been no consequences for anyone. This is worrying, not just, so, the money that's running out, and I'm no longer surprised that the insurance money is gone. It just explodes in different ways where it appears. So that we think it is right that the trebwell hospital, after so many years of delay, is being saved to such an extent that it will be able to maintain the status of the regional hospital in favour of this Upper Zasavje, Posavje and in this sense this money is small if we look at the whole budget and everything else that we have redistributed with the amendments in this National Assembly, so that this proposal has our support in the hope that the widest group of Members present today will see the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u462	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u463	In his own.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u464	In his own.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u465	Thank you very much. I will support the proposed amendment, because this is the only way to correct the mistake of inefficient, non-transparent, corrupt, cliential investment in health care, which is why, I do not know if this is a funny Mr. Minister of Finance, there has been a major breakthrough in the resources that we intend to invest in the pediatric clinic for citizens and citizens. We are still waiting for the Minister of Finance's response, which is all funny to him, with what agreement and on what basis the revised investment programme has only increased the construction of a paediatric clinic at the installation point by more than €10 million. Let's hear it and I'll make it public here that it's supposed to be in the Durs procedure, which the Minister of Finance probably won't say anything about, a few investigations into so-called tax evasions. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u466	Mr. Mag. Squeakle, we're talking specifically about the stem hospital.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u467	This amendment corrects the error caused by these tax evasions caused by these abuses. As, of course, it was necessary for Minister Bručan to collect an additional EUR 10 million from these items immediately before the conclusion of the call. Mr Bručan had at his disposal 2.4 billion and signed a contract of 6 billion. If you want 10 million euros in euros, he's gone. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u468	Mr. Mag. Hiccup [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u469	EUR 22 million. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u470	Mr. Mag. Squeak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u471	I'm sorry that I'm a little bit, as it's called, emotional about it, but you know, we've been chasing this thing for about a year. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u472	I know.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u473	And here comes the finance minister who thinks it's funny [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u474	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u475	It seems sad to me, so I'm going to support the amendment. And members of the coalition, if you want to ensure at least a little error correction, support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u476	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, would you like to?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u477	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I suggest that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u478	Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u479	It is procedural for you to conduct the meeting as ordered and ordered by the Rules of Procedure and that the moment the speaker enters an area that is not in accordance with the content of the proposed amendment to interrupt and warn him. There is no need to wait 3 minutes for this, no need to wait 2 minutes, please do this immediately, because otherwise these discussions are completely divisive and lead to things and accusations and accusations that have absolutely nothing to do with the subject matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u480	Thank you for just giving me that mandate. I'm aware that if I did, we'd probably be done by now. Mr. Gulic, please. But I'll take that into account, and I'll take that into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u481	Respectable. I am not going to say this because I would like to take this into account, but I would ask all my colleagues and colleagues here to support my colleague Barovic's amendment. After all, it is not only his amendment, but the amendment of all those who need services in the trump hospital, whether they are succulent or not. That's where people come from. It's not exactly about the big money. If you look at the number, that's 4.5 million euros, that's about as much as this country has gotten in the last three months from the casino tax. Of course, "ceterum censeo", this is the consequence of the Law on the Limitation of the Consumption of Tobacco Products. However, the Trbovlje hospital is one of the oldest organised hospitals in Slovenia. It came from solidarity, from a housing fund in which people paid for themselves and thus spent a very bad time. Until today. Just as she is now threatened by some way of disappearing, and she has never - in any system, be it the same or different, and I think it is necessary to invest it. There is also a demographic picture that will require more and more, and not only will all go to these large centers, but they will also need something like this. Tomograph is one of those devices that modern hospitals have, it already means some kind of basic standard and I think you can vote for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u482	Thank you very much. We're voting. There were 64 votes in favour and 22 in favour against 41. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We continue with the next amendment, number 5, coalition parties. We're voting. 57 Members and Members voted for 54 against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We continue with the amendment number 6 of the coalition groups. Mr. Mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u483	In my own name. I will support the amendment, not because it comes from coalitions, but because it provides more money for investment investments in hospitals. However, it is sad and unfortunate that we fail to make a joint amendment to the Health Committee to include the greatest needs. But this is more of an opportunity for the next term.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u484	Thank you very much. Mr Germich, please, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u485	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will support this amendment. And I thank the coalition for summarizing the amendments submitted by me for the urgent need to build a second radiotherapy department in Slovenia, within the framework of the University Clinical Centre in Maribor. It is also worth thanking that this need has been acknowledged and that funds have also been provided, given that I am counting on the amendment to be adopted to a greater extent. Of course, with the support of this amendment, the question arises whether there will be a dynamic for the full construction of radiotherapy in Maribor, given that it is not possible to see in the draft budget for 2009 the dynamics of continuing to build this Centre for Radiotherapy in Maribor, not within the framework of the 2009 draft amending budget with amendments, not within the framework of the development tasks. I hope that the will is expressed, and I am sure that the support of this amendment will agree between all the Members and Members we are here today, and that this project will continue to have continuity in the coming years. Because there is no greater harm than starting construction while continuing and then ending will move into some uncertain future. As I said, I will support this amendment. In Slovenia, we need a second radiology department and I am sure that we will be able to provide the best possible treatment in these patients' treatment procedures for radiotherapy needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u486	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 1. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We continue with Amendment 7, the coalition parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. (For the vote was 55.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have another amendment to the sub-programmes Programmes to protect and strengthen health, reduce health differences and develop research activities, budget user Ministry of Health, proposer of the Liberal Democracy Club. Mr Germič, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u487	Thank you very much. So it's an amendment that somehow corrects the direction of this government in the field of preventive health. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the level of resources from the 2007 budget assessment to the 2009 budget is decreasing from €11.5 million to €9.5 million. And this indicates that this government of prevention is giving significantly less attention than would be necessary. Within all the items that are more, we are talking about programmes against AIDS, we are talking about programs for healthy nutrition, we are talking about physical activity, we are talking about aiding societies in the field that are working intensively both in the professional and in the layman's community to help patients develop infrastructure. And, of course, the lack of resources, which in practice and experience show, are very richly noble, indicates, of course, that we will take an important step back here. We therefore propose, of course, that, with an additional 300,000 euros on this item, we reduce the reduction of funds and, of course, it is necessary to recognise here that the Ministry of Health is fully under budget resources and therefore one such amendment, which would devote 300,000 euros to preventive activities, of course, could have significantly more impact than the amount of these funds that would be allocated to this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u488	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 41. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We continue with the amendments from the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Amendment No 1 - Scientific research activity, Parliamentary Group Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, for 17, against 42. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We continue with the first amendment from the Higher Education sub-programme, the proposal for a group of Members, headed by Mr Ljubo Germić. Here you go. On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u489	Thank you very much. In our previous term in the National Assembly, we unanimously adopted a decree establishing the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor. Agreed. In the wider area of Maribor, a consortium was formed that collected a large amount of funds to start and create the initial conditions for the operation of this medical faculty. We are now in a situation where we are planning to use a significant amount of European funding for the construction of the Faculty of Medicine for 2008 and we have two obstacles. We need building records and we need funds to buy apartments in buildings where the new medical faculty is supposed to stand. No such funds are provided. Therefore, with all the pressing problems of the number of doctors in Slovenia, with reduced accessibility to health services, there is also a reduction in health care, with a broader problem where another medical faculty would provide for an increase in the number of doctors in the future, we propose that the National Assembly adopt an amendment, so I express support for this amendment to provide a weak €2 million fund to ensure that we are able to ensure the ongoing implementation of this project in the next year and the ongoing absorption of European funds already provided for this purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u490	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u491	Thank you so much for saying that. This time, too, I must express my first disappointment within the National Party's Group that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia itself has not found a hearing for the said continuation in the previous mandate of the unanimous will of the National Assembly. And if I recall correctly, the National Assembly applauded itself at that time because we had thus reached a consensus within the ruling and opposition parties on the development of education in the Municipality of Maribor. Furthermore, I would like to point out that I feel more and more in the course of today than most, regrettably, Members of the National Assembly not only of the Municipality of Maribor are ashamed, but rather ashamed of the whole of northern Slovenia. From this title, I must say that I am very sorry that such a policy is being implemented both in the eyes of the Slovenian public and not least before the Minister, which will also be reflected in the untrustworthy education in the Municipality of Maribor. In the National Party's Group on Development, Science and Education, we will support this amendment and, like the speaker in front of me, we sincerely hope that it will be a godly wish or a mere imagination for the amendment to come across support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u492	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u493	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. It really was a solemn moment in this National Assembly. At this point, I was given a bet when the previous Member of Parliament, and now the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Tsukjat, brought the champagne bottles, the music played here and it was celebrated. Then this story went on so far that Dr. Bajuk promised me here on the questions sent to me, and earlier on, the Minister assured France Kangler in writing that they would provide this money for this matter to be settled. I must say that, despite the fact that it was not in the budget, the ministry provided part of the money so that the activities could start, but the catch is that if it does not reach the building permit this year and 2008 then most of the funds we would get from the European Union can be wiped out under the nose. And that makes it wise for me to support this amendment and thus help, for the first time, the health care, for the second time, the population and for the third time also the wise financial policy that could come to this. It has to be said that, once again, if it is terribly difficult to get funds out of the province, you have to walk like a pope in Canos on your knees to get these funds, how long such and similar amendments have been in force in the National Assembly, you know how many promises have been made, and I would only expect the government, after all, to arrange this thing as the sea and to honor myself, then open up an object that would serve the entire nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u494	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u495	Thank you so much for saying that. At first, I had no intention of calling, but it is right to explain, because all three debaters before me have actually claimed the truths, the deceptions, because the problem is completely different. For on the committee, when we discussed these amendments, it was quite clear that the key problem is the ownership of that facility, which is almost certainly claimed that it will not be possible to obtain it. And now it would be pointless to allocate funds for this without having the slightest opportunity to acquire ownership. And that's why this thing is unjustifiable to be put in this budget in any way now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u496	Please, the leader of your parliamentary group has asked me if I am interrupting the debate, and therefore, now I am really going to stick to this and I am going to stop. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u497	Thank you. Well, the old people said, "Promise it's too much," and when we set up a medical college, we promised, but now we should give something, and the point is that it's not a problem that we can't get land or housing, but that there's no need for it. And what this amendment proposes is to provide the means to do so. And I am sure that all those who bet so much on health and on the scale of values have high health, we will support such a very noble investment, which will also provide better health services. I'm sure you'll support this, not the way you put those previous amendments from 6 million to 500 million. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u498	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u499	800 to make it better here. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u500	Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u501	Thank you for your word. I will support the proposed amendment as a Mariborian myself. As many have said before me, last year in this House was one festive moment. Let us allow him to continue to be famous or glorious. Once again, I would like to stress the stupidity of the coalition MP in front of me when he said there was no way. It's not true that there's no way [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u502	Mr. Zagorac, please. Your colleague, the coalition MP can't defend himself because he can't get a word twice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u503	I'm sorry, but I would like to say that there is no possibility - there is no means, and with this amendment we are giving funds. You said that in health when it came to health, or those who can't buy health if the law is adopted. And yet, you've made the most of it. In this amendment, this "if" does not apply to you anymore. That's duality, and that's duality. Therefore, I politely ask you to support these amendments, let's give the conditions for the Faculty of Medicine or the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor to live, not to keep a fig in its pocket. When some conclusions need to be realized, you are nowhere to be clapped, but then you are everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u504	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 36. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We continue with Amendment 2, the proposal is a group of Members led by Mr Mohet. Mr. Mogue, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u505	That's right, thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Our entire doctrine has been based on the Lisbon Strategy and the Bologna Declaration lately. It is the Bologna Declaration that assures us that we will be able to go to the labour market with enough educated people and we will have enough scientists who will be able to lead this society on the path of a society that has knowledge as a value. Well, if we believed that, we should also finance all these things. Thus, all universities, public, in the Republic of Slovenia, started Bologna program renovations. You know that the number of students has grown to 100,000 since then, that these programs are more demanding. Previously, we had a two-stage study, now we have a three-stage study, and on average, the schooling period has also grown inappropriately. It is therefore not only that the funds allocated to higher education, which is true, what the Government has said, would increase by a certain percentage than inflation or perhaps a little more, given the funds from previous years, but should grow faster. At universities, it was calculated that the funding of higher education activities in 2007 represented a real decrease of 1.7% and that, according to the 2008 draft budget, it was expected to fall by at least 0.5% in real terms. At the same time, these resources, which are intended to provide quality renovations, are not always well regulated. In fact, these funds have largely begun to be shared abnormally high in investment and, on the other hand, this Government has set up a lot of other private higher education institutions. I just want to say to you who come from around here, in Primorsk we will have a university in Koper, a university in Nova Gorica and this next budget provides a third university, this is the Euro-Mediterranean University. You who are in Dolenjska - write everything down, you who are in Prekmurje - write off, wipe yourself under Gorenjek's nose and you can do something like this. I think that if we focus on a goal, we should put all the resources into renovating the public universities we have, and that we would then be competitive in the labour market and in the knowledge market in the European Union. Your pressure on the button depends on whether we support it or not, which is supported by all universities in Slovenia. And, of course, after the vote, we can ask ourselves, "Who's he calling?".. I'm sorry I missed three seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u506	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u507	Tercia education or higher education in the Republic of Slovenia is very catechologically treated. If I asked someone now what's more important in the country, the military or the universities, they'd probably all claim that universities. But when we look at the money, then the data is raw. We spend exactly 50% or one half of what we spend on the state budget for military education. And you think we're going to promote ourselves in Europe and in the world with an army? No! No! Only with knowledge! The fact that money for education is falling, and the fact that the mother's working body rejects the amendment, is worrying. The fact that the Ministry of Higher Education or the Minister of Finance write that they are defending additional money reminds us of cynicism. That's why I think the amendment needs to be supported. Investing in knowledge is one of Slovenia's rare development opportunities, all we have, we have people, and if we therefore give less for the military, we will only fund young people more properly and thus develop Slovenia better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u508	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 18 votes against 40. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Dr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u509	Procedurally, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u510	Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u511	Look, I am alone in a specific position in this House. I'm waiting for you to hold the debate on behalf of the parliamentary groups and right after that I held my hand and I wanted to discuss it on my behalf [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u512	Dr. Gaber, you know you're not in any subordination because you're alone. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u513	I said in a personal position.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u514	You can raise your hand at any time. Just not too late. [[...]] [[...]] I'm sorry, I didn't see if I missed you, but the vote was already under way. We continue with the next amendment number two, sorry, we continue with further amendments from the Ministry of Education and Sport, sub-programme Sports Programmes. Amendment number one, the candidates are the coalition parliamentary group. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeakle, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u515	I will not oppose this amendment. What's interesting about this amendment, and that's why I called first, is the lack of explanation of the government, but above all, it's a brilliant source. This source is interesting because, obviously, this has been done already in the 2009 budget - in fact, the Ministry of Finance is quite flexible in calculating how much our obligations are in the EU budget, and here we see that both the mother labour and the Government agree that EUR 375,000 is taken from Slovenia's contribution to the European budget. This contribution, among the brothers, is about 1% over. This is the first amendment of the Ministry of Education. I'm sorry, but I'm talking about the first amendment to the primary school subroutine, the education ministry, page 74, and it says here what the source is. And the source, I apologize, is the contribution of the EU budget. Just to finish the thought. Clearly, there is great flexibility as to how much this contribution is. This contribution totals €300 million. And if members of the opposition were just as concerned as members of the coalition and were given the same consent by the government, today all amendments would be peaceful without anyone, except the European budget, in pain. It's so special. Whether this is formally possible, let those who have written down here, especially the Government, find that they support the amendment. This is going to be very interesting next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u516	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeaky, you skipped the amendment. Now we have an amendment on the Sports Program. The numbers I was looking for were further on on the second amendment to primary education. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are continuing with the first amendment from the sub-programme Primary Education, which is proposed by the coalition's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I also note that, once again, I have explained that we are talking about the 1st amendment of the primary education sub-programme, the proposals are coalition groups. That is what I said, and that is also what we have voted on, and we have ended up finding that this amendment has been adopted. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Squeak. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u517	Yeah. I come out of the 26.11 review and before the vote, one vote before that was the vote on the first amendment, because before that vote we had a vote on the Mohet amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u518	Exactly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u519	So, which amendment have we just voted on? Second time on the first or first time on the second? In fact, you claimed that the first amendment program, the source, was the same. [[...]] So please, if you can explain that we know where we are.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u520	Right away. Thank you very much. I think that Mr Pece read this in the morning that the amendment to the Youth Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the Sports Programme, which does not refer to this user, but rather to the user of the Ministry of Education and Sport, was mentioned in the review of the amendments on page 58. That is why we will treat this amendment as the first user within the Ministry of Education and Sport. Please take this into account. Thank you. We continue with Amendment No. 2 – proposers of a coalition member of the group. Amendment No 2. Mr. Gaber, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u521	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I'll back this up myself. I will support him because, at least in some very small part, he is correcting an extremely poor picture of education in this state budget. While we are listening to different stories in the public, which are more or less stories for children on this subject, the figures of the same Ministry of Finance say that in 1995 we dedicated 4.1% of gross social product to this area, in 2005, by then it grew, 4.8%, in 2006 - 4.7%, the estimate for 2007 is 4.5% of GDP, and for this year we are talking about 4.4%. This means that by this year we will have fallen four-tenths of a percentage of GDP. This means that we have consciously decided to allocate less resources to these areas, and this means little less. This means that in 2008 we will spend more than €120 million less on these areas. At the same time, I don't know who else we're talking about taking care of these areas. This, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's very reckless. I hope that it will not take long, but it would be very good if it had been previously adopted supplements that have seriously helped the university and anyone else so that the activity could run there normally. If we were to get involved in the work of the university in this way, it would be better than to get involved in any way more than inappropriate in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u522	Thank you very much. We're voting. 61 Members and Members voted for 60 against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] We understand that the amendment has been adopted. We continue with the third amendment from the same area, namely, that of the parliamentary group of coalitions. Mr. Anderlich, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u523	I will not support the amendment, although I would like to do so, because I agree with the Government's opinion, which says: "The reduction of funds under the Ministry of Defence's technological development item is not acceptable, as this is necessary to promote technological development in particular in areas of interest for the defence purposes of the country. Most of the funds are for co-financing development projects under the Technology for Security and Peace programme, while other obligations stem from decisions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, agreements between ministries and already accepted international obligations." Oops, sorry, I was wrong. I actually manipulated a little bit. This is for the opposition's amendments, this explanation written by the government. Of course, from the same line, she supports it. Mr. Minister will take a nap because he's probably embarrassed by this explanation, but that's what's sort of unhygienic about what you're doing -- you write in the same works, how you can't take the euro out of the same line, but where you make it up, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u524	Thank you very much. [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u525	I'm explaining that I'm not going to support the amendment. Why?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u526	It's a controversy, a simple controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u527	And why?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u528	Because I was assigned to say that. [[A laugh in the hall.]] Ma'am mag. Waste, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u529	Thank you. I'm sure you'll understand me too, because it's a controversy, but it's not; what I'm about to say is an explanation for the voice. I will not have trouble supporting this amendment because it concerns education, as well as because science and technological development are at source within the Ministry of Defence. But it's all about priorities. The 17 amendments to infrastructure should have been made from a source called Science and Technology Development within the Ministry of Defence. But when the Social Democrats proposed an amendment that was actually intended for technological development and science, it is said that only from the Ministry of Defence was it not the right source. This is not a controversy, it is just a finding that it is not an important area or an area to which the amendment relates, not a source from which it is covered, but an important one who proposes an amendment. And, respectable coalition, you have 51 votes, you can vote everything! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u530	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please. You spoke earlier on behalf of the Group of Members, now in your own name - is that right?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u531	Nor will I support the amendment because it ignores the Defence Minister's coalition because it underestimates it and even exposes it to something that is not true, so that it cannot spend money and it cannot defend what it has declared in this National Assembly: "In terms of science and technological development, 23 million euros is foreseen for 2008 in this segment." Now you've taken three of them from him, and one before, that means less than four. He says, "But I must say that the former Minister has actually achieved that these funds are also allocated to the military budget for these purposes, although I do not want to be friendly with the previous ones, but I must say that the defence system is also an important generator of development in the field of science, economic development and so on." Why are you underestimating him? Why do you so much talk about it in front of the Slovenian public? After I ask what's going on with one armor that costs 4 million euros, it's an immediate attack on the coalition on the previous president of the Defence Committee. I can't support this amendment, even though I'd like it for school or for those purposes, but there's too much duplicity.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u532	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u533	If the coalition is inconsistent, it is understandable and political, but if the Government is inconsistent in its argument, why some amendments support and some do not, then it is neither funny nor political anymore, but mainly from a technocratic angle completely unacceptable. I think that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has to decide whether it has genuinely provided the Minister for Defence with the means of technological development, or whether it has been very little, just as a joke, because today, by one vote to the Minister, we are actually taking almost one fifth of all the funds. I don't know, the government gave a written opinion here saying that this amendment supports, and then it was silent about why this amendment supports. But the government is very, as colleague Anderelič said, vehement in why I don't support the amendment of someone else who takes from the same bag because it takes from this bag.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u534	Mr. Mag. Hiccup [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u535	I'm done. I'll support the amendment. I regret, however, that we have here a vote "ad person" and not "ad rem".
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u536	We could also violate the Rules of Procedure in this way, as you have now done, in order to give the Minister the floor. Don't make us do this, please! We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 3. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We continue with the fourth amendment of the same user of the Ministry of Education and Sport, the proposed Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Mr Zagorac, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u537	Thank you for your word. Dear President! The amendment, which is before us, is coordinated with the mayor of the Municipality of Pesnica pri Maribor as well as in line with some of the conclusions of the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Pesnica pri Maribor. It is a matter of funding for the construction of a elementary school in Pesnica near Maribor, which is long-term, in some cases even dangerous for children who attend school in this school. I must say that the government, the projected investment is 4 million euros. It is only in 2010 that the Government of the Republic devotes a million EUR 10,000 to this investment, it is said that we are missing three million somewhere. And since it's true about a school that's long-term, which is dangerous, let's at least give the kids some kind of security. And if I can only touch on the Government's explanation why it rejects this amendment: "decreasing the sub-programme from which we are taking it would prevent the construction of military infrastructure provided for by the medium-term defence programme and coordinated with the partnership objectives of NATO." Now let's talk a little bit about what's more important: either NATO or our kids. The reason you gave me is "poor." "Poor"! I apologize if I may have been a little too political, but since we are two Members from this constituency, I believe that he will be more professional, with his very well-known expertise in this mandate, in these three years, your respected fellow Member from the Pojbič Coalition will be pleased to explain the professional side of why such an amendment in the Poznica municipality needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u538	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 38. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We continue with amendment number five, proposed by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please. On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u539	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will ask you again today for support, this time for the amendments for the project to build a new elementary school in Trbovje. Yesterday or before yesterday, I explained that the primary school, which was the first in our country in 1972, was built with a new technique of the so - called assembly house. I hope you know how long the life span of the assembly house is. How short this time is, if there's a thousand, 2,000 children a year in a space like this. The school's really worn out. I beg of you, as we have already said, to support this amendment. I will once again appeal to the leader of the SDS Group, who said today, even though the opinion of the Government of Slovenia has been negative on one of the previous amendments, but the SDS Members are so sovereign and autonomous in their decisions that they can easily deny the government's opinion. Here we go, fellows and colleagues, for only EUR 250,000. Two hundred and fifty thousand euros! The explanation given by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and why the amendment does not support it is the one read by colleague Boštjan Zagorac. The government says that a reduction in funds - because we know how we can put amendments into the budget: if we want to increase one item, we have to take it to the second item. And the government says that the reduction of funds, where we are taking it, would make it impossible or slow down the implementation of the equipment and modernisation programmes of the units and the construction of military infrastructure under NATO. Let me ask you again - what is the priority in our country: or infrastructure for primary education of our children or infrastructure for military equipment for the needs of NATO? Minister Beast boasted a long time ago that we would be able to use the budget even more for private education, for capital. Today -- yes, at least that's what it looks like -- you're going to say no to an amendment that only speaks of 250,000. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] EUR of funding for primary primary education of children. [[...]] Public education! I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u540	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u541	Thank you for your word. I myself will support the amendments, as before, when it comes to the education of our children. But it is true if you allow me to touch the explanation a little longer, why not support this amendment. As we have heard, it is 250,000 euros and if we subtracted these 250,000 euros, we would be at risk of our cooperation with NATO. What were you going to do with them, set up a toilet for 100 soldiers?Oh, my God! Please! Let's give 1200 students normal conditions for education, they're our future, not NATO liaison soldiers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u542	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u543	I will support the amendment, as you voted in amendment number 3, and I will ask Members of the ruling coalition to support this amendment as well. Amendments 3, 4 and 5 are very similar. It is always about primary schools, even amendment 3 is about a gym at the Primary School of Anica Černejeva Makola, amendment 4 is about Pesnica Primary School and amendment 5 is about a primary school in Trbovje. Let's support these amendments, and we don't share children with them according to what they're called? - the political emancipation of individual Members, individual political parties. The need for a new Primary School of Trbovlje and the money allocated here is likely to only open up the possibility that this will be completed in the next term, the project should be prepared, what is minimal, what you can do in this mandate with this last vote on the 2008 budget. His rejection will be understood as a total coalition arrogance, where the gym for our children - yes, the primary school for children in Trbovje - does not!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u544	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 38. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We continue with the following amendment, namely the Sub-programme Helps in Primary Education, the proposaler of the Group of Members, led by Mr Ljuba Germić. Mr. Germich, on behalf of the Group of Members? In his own. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thus, the proposed 650,000-euro amendment aims to increase support for primary school students, in particular to improve food habits, i.e. financing or co-financing of meals. With this amendment, we want to achieve two. Firstly, to increase the proportion of those eligible for this co-financing, and secondly to increase funding for each meal. Today, we can often monitor a very rapid rise in food prices and we are confident that this price change will also be followed by an increase in the prices of individual meals, and if we do not follow an increase in funds for this purpose, we will be able to deprive children in primary school of this assistance. In doing so, I would like to remind the members of the coalition, particularly the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, that they have proposed laws in the previous mandate in this area, and I am convinced that their memory is still in this period and that they will have no difficulty in supporting this amendment, given that they have not themselves crossed over to increase the volume of funds for these purposes already in the preparation of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u546	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u547	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I'll support this supplement myself. The explanation is very simple. We've all been talking about inflation in this country lately. We're talking about a 12 to 13% increase in the price of food. In schools, however, we have a food index of 103.44. This means that it is obvious that the funds earmarked for this are lower than in 2007 for 20087. This supplement does not, in fact, do anything but roughly replace this backlog. Despite all the problems, however, this country is more than rich enough to move in the direction of a warm meal at least for the weakest, at least in primary schools, which would be free of charge. We should be able to reach slowly - about 40% of the population should be included in such a system. As already mentioned by his colleague Germić, this was an explicit philosophy of today’s rulings. It is interesting that today the realization of this philosophy is minus: less money in 2008 than in 2009 due to the known rise in food prices.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u548	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Spending, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u549	Thank you. I'm a cosigner of this amendment. That means I'll back him up. There are several reasons for that. Monitoring data on the share of gross domestic product for education and also for assistance falls. And that's the first thing this amendment needs to be supported for. Second. The eating habits of young people in school are such that a warm meal should be our goal because the proportion of children who do not even eat breakfast at home is too high. Therefore, the meal they now have under existing legislation in primary school is too weak a meal to pay off breakfast. Third thing. We talk a lot about healthy nutrition. However, since they are always obliged to monitor the most favourable provider in schools following the invitation to tender, the purchase of food, which would be part of this set of healthy food, either integrated or organic, whatever we call it, is an even more distant goal, rather than starting with young people, not only by offering them healthy food, but also by raising them into appropriate eating habits, which would keep them healthy for a long time, as health care is increasingly left to the individual. However, we know that low domestic standards also mean poor eating habits and poorer food, so I repeat, young people need to be taken care of. And it would be good to have these amendments supported already on the parent's working body - this doesn't happen in this coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u550	Thank you very much. Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u551	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I will support this amendment, and I would support it even if the number were significantly larger. At this point, this represents just one, for example, inflationary alignment or, rather, a dragan supplement; well, that's what they used to say when prices went very high and people got expensive supplements. I hope you'll support this in the coalition. I have a lot of hope, because, after all, it's not about the Trbovlje or any place that needs to be punished, let's say, because of the first strike in socialism -- it's over, but you'd still be punishing for something like that. You have a nasty habit of using everything for what you call an uncultured fight and actually trying to get everything you don't like out of Slovenian space or whatever you think you don't like. Mainly, €650,000 for children to receive at least an orderly diet, I think you should not find it difficult to take away the eternal Minister for Foreign Affairs either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u552	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u553	Thank you very much. The numbers speak for themselves. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia increases the students' regressive diet by exactly 3.4% in 2008 according to the implementation in 2007, a total of 6 million 300 is earmarked for this. The amendment proposes a simple compensation for actual food inflation. The average inflation is 5.1, and now the government thinks it's going to be 3.4 next year, so the Minister of Finance said, only 3.4 can you increase the expenditure. However, the actual increase in food prices is October 13,3. Therefore, the minimum necessary to do is to accept the amendment, otherwise it will be necessary for every 10 children to say, "You are no longer entitled to the food supplement." A very interesting experience would be in the National Assembly if we decided to close the mess every 10 days in this National Assembly. I'd like to know how long this would take. What you are doing today, if you reject this amendment, is exactly what you are doing: reducing spending rights for dozens of students. Thank you very much. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u554	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u555	Thank you very much. The explanation shows that it is practically aided by a subsidised diet of 0.53 euros per pupil, and I am talking about 61,100 pupils. This is an assessment of the drafters of the amendment. You know, full of words are promises, including the Minister of Health, how important a healthy diet is for a quality life, for the future. But when we talk about such small financial resources that would affect better nutrition for children in primary school, then the government says, "No." We've had to hear nothing about doubles today, and I believe we will. But when we talk about the dual necessity, let me remind you of one important fact, respected colleagues and colleagues, when you rejected the previous amendments of the opposition in the field of primary education - 8 million euros in compensation was paid by the Minister of the Beast for the Church School! EUR 8 million is only compensation because the Church was unable to use its premises, even though it was granted public school premises! Today we are or are now specifically talking about the amendment, which is only €650,000; compared to €8 million, there is no comparison. In this case, it is the health of our children. Let's see, dear colleagues and colleagues, how important this is to you!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u556	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u557	Thank you so much for saying that. This is actually an area where, in my view, too little has been done in the previous term. It was the investors of these amendments that we have before us who rejected the law and then resolved them in a different way. I would like to point out that, despite all the criticisms you are making, the real growth of funds, or the nominal growth of funds in this item 3.4%, should be borne in mind that, at the same time, there is a real decline in the number of pupils in primary school. Only in 2010 will this trend turn upwards on the basis of births that have taken place since 2004. And then, in fact, more resources will be needed because there will also be more children in primary school. This makes it easy for us to meet: for the first time, with increased funds, with real wage growth and a reduction and reduction in the number of children in primary education, and yet the country is spending more on this programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u558	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Well, let's just say we agreed earlier on that on behalf of the parliamentary group, and now on behalf of the personal group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u559	Thank you very much. I had, as far as I could see, three minutes, which means I spoke on behalf of the delegation. But you know, when my colleague Tanko spoke before me about what needs to be taken into account - yes, the increased resources proposed by the amendment must be taken into account the increased inflation we face, we must take into account the greater poverty in our country. Don't talk about real economic growth. But people, those on the verge of survival, actually have nothing to do with it. In fact, in reality, they have nothing of high economic growth except a hole in their pocket. The amendment, once again, as proposed by the Group of Members, is socially oriented. Socially oriented in caring for a healthy living environment, healthy living space, healthy living development of our children. Therefore, do not change your mind, but I ask you once again to support this amendment. Personally, I'll back him up.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u560	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u561	Thank you very much, Chairman. Once again, another of those popular amendments that we've been talking about today for hours now, how populism and what kind of parenting, what would be good and what was good. Despite the fact that it is clear in the Government's text that, according to the state budget item, it will also enable weaker students and so on, but we want more of this money for those students, those categories of students who would need it further. You know, that's all good to hear. As I know, these kids at school have food, they have lunch, they have lunch, there's no problem. This is supported by the State and also by the local community. And I don't think we're going to speed anything up with these thousands of euros. This is just some kind of like amendment, how one way or another would push this government a little bit against the wall - and why give money rather for the army than for our students! This is at this hour, with these many debates a bit distasteful, inappropriate debate. And yet, I do. It's a legitimate right, but after all these hours, we could feel that there will be no bread from this flour, let's stop the story.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u562	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 41. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We continue with amendment number 1 - assistance in secondary school. The amendment was proposed by a group of Members with the first-signed Ljub Germic. Mr. Germich, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u563	Thank you very much. With the support expressed for this amendment, I would like to say that I would like this flour to give some bread, because the assessment is, at least from the debate, it is possible to understand that the feeling among the coalition Members is that there are a lot of oysters in primary school dumpsters. This time, however, we are talking about how to ensure equal access to secondary and higher education students according to their social situation and their place of residence. And here we propose that the co-financing rate be increased by the number of schoolchildren and by the value of the subsidies. We would like to point out that the government in response says that the funds it provides somehow cover the needs, in accordance with the rules of procedure. Our proposal is that if the prices of oil derivatives increase, for the first time, and you can see that in any price change today, this will also be followed in the prices of transport tickets for carriers. At the same time, by increasing the funds on these items, we propose that the criteria may also be changed where the threshold for social assistance can be increased at this point and in this way the number of those to whom transport to school can be co-financed may also be increased. In this way, we will really follow the fact that as many students as possible, or higher school students, will have equivalent educational conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u564	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u565	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I must say that I am disappointed when I listen to some of the debates here today that are trying to deal with basic accounting, nothing else is going on about the whole thing. If your prices rise by 13% at the point of consumption, you increase the item by 3.4% and the universal Slovenia explains that you give at least the same if I listen well, you think you should give even more for this area. This can only be understood by a person who seriously believes that what has been explained by Slovenia, Mr. Minister of Economy, and what the Prime Minister of Slovenia has explained: the first explained that it will go with dry bread, and the second found out how many branches around Slovenia are in garbage disposals - only with this logic who can explain what we are talking about here. Talking about demagogism in this is very cheap, but reality says that if you want to keep the standard at least, you have to follow at least what makes the price rise. But we have all said together that we will take steps in this area over the years. And a precise view will show that we have stuck to this for a number of years, but that we do not stick to this budget. Whether we like it or not, it's less important. Those who have problems with it, but live in schools, and are those who have a socially weaker background than we have. For us, that's no problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u566	Thank you very much for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u567	Mr Vice President, after all these warnings and all that, where was the explanation of the vote at Gabr? No explanation, no controversy, no regrets, nothing like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u568	Thank you very much. I didn't notice any insults. But I thanked Dr. Gabr for the debate, not for his explanation of vote. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u569	Thank you very much. This was just one or even the only law in the previous term, which was adopted on the proposal of the opposition Member and the School Transport Regulations Act I myself proposed. So you know this situation in the field of education. At that time we proposed a 70% status relief for the apprentice, the student and the student, that is to say anyone with a status of relief as well as for a city ticket for passenger transport. Mr. then Minister strongly opposed this and then introduced scales of 15 to 70%, by tying the transport subsidy to the possibility of being in a student home. Those who had the opportunity to stay in a student home until this subsidy was of the same magnitude as it belonged to him were not entitled. And these are the things that were done badly at the time. This made it impossible for students and students to make an elementary decision whether to stay at home and drive to school or to be forced to stay in a student’s home. And that was bad. However, as regards the level of resources for this purpose, these are sufficient in accordance with the rules applicable and made by law for the purposes of this case. For the price of tickets is always [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] they do not change this way and the price in this part changes on the basis of the ticket price. [[...]] And if there is an incentive, the changes will then be settled on the basis of the legal basis and the rule of law so that the funds are sufficient. However, under the conditions currently in place, these funds are sufficient.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u570	Thank you very much. We're voting. 57 Members and Members voted, 16 to 41. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We continue with the second amendment, as well as with the budgetary user, the Ministry of Education and Sport, and the proposal is a group of Members. Mr Ljubo Germič, please, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u571	Thank you very much. In this amendment, I would first like to draw attention to the Government's response and we can say whether it is a mistake, but perhaps also an irresponsible attitude towards this topic, because I have been answered in the same way as the amendment, which increases the food item, as they responded to the proposal by the transport amendment. This shows how the Government takes seriously the content of the amendments that talk about how to ensure better nutrition for students in secondary education and higher education students. Today, we have talked a lot about the support of this amendment, that if inflation is significantly higher or prices go up significantly faster than the increase in funds, the normal consequence, even though you have more money to get less for it. And since it is possible to detect such trends in the budget, we propose additional resources. In a series of surveys, high school youth is shown in opinions by a number of experts as the population with the greatest food problems, to eat at least regularly and at least healthyly. If we want to follow the resolution - I apologize, Mr President, given that you are talking, everyone else is speaking in your example, then I wonder whether it is reasonable to discuss and explain the voice. So, I would just like to point out that very little attention is paid to healthy nutrition in both primary school, high school and higher school students. Whether we are wondering to what extent those who provide food in secondary education can follow the possibility of purchasing organic food through the allocation of funds. Well, this may be pointless for you, but then I wonder why you proposed a resolution on healthy nutrition. Or to feed on the same bad habits as before [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u572	Dear Mr. Germich, please explain your voice! The debates and discussions were Monday and yesterday. This warning applies to all, first and second warnings. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u573	Mr President, I thank you for your warning. And since you can talk and listen at the same time, [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u574	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? I'm opening applications. I'm only going to open the application once because I don't want a problem. This is not the time to argue. Anyone who wants to explain their voice has signed up. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u575	This is quite complicated, Mr President. It is that we have serious problems in providing support and assistance to schoolchildren. The resources provided by the State budget under the proposal for amendments to the Government are not sufficient. Now I don't know if I can say that we obviously have the highest assessment of the oil judge, this price of the oil judge will soon affect the prices of the so-called means of transport, and I think that, as with some other amendments, it is also justified to propose additional funds, because the average consumption allowed by the ministry at these points will simply not guarantee the rights guaranteed. This, now that some explain - and I do not argue here, just note - that it is not appropriate for the Ministry to have the power to do more if this happens, but it is the authority here in the National Assembly, and we are the one who, as the National Assembly, have to provide additional funds on items, and then to hear the government's opinion that this is not necessary because this is all sufficient. That's not a strong enough argument for us. Since you have not interrupted me, I understand that I have remained within the Member's allowed rights, let me say that I will support this amendment and I do not understand so much the opposition of the ruling coalition to all the amendments that simply give people money so that they can enjoy the rights to the end, but not that we will give every ten schoolchildren money for transport or money for a scholarship or money for food. Thank you so much for not interrupting.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u576	Thank you. Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u577	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I apologize myself for falling for my previous explanation, the Government's explanation, I don't know if you've looked at it, twice is "copy paste" made and we have the same explanation, and I will support this supplement myself. The explanation that I presented here earlier went to this supplement, but because the government has afforded twice the same explanation, I wrote under two different supplements to it myself, and I apologize to everyone for having misinterpreted the previous supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u578	Will you support it? Will you vote against it? Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u579	Thank you. I'll support the amendment. However, I would like to point out that in response by the Government to these amendments, it is possible to read when it comes to food, to travel to the food strategy and not know what else, but the real problem is the restrictions on ordering, because those who order from the cheapest provider have to order and there is no room for organic food. People come to me who intend to leave an integrated diet or ecologically because they do not find a market for their crops. And if I did, I had asked the Minister of Education several times if they'd treated me the way they did in Italy and Austria, where they'd let one third or 20% of the food in this segment be organic and could be more expensive, they would have done something. And with such interventions, we provide more resources. We have already had positive programmes for health and similar things, and we give them up. We should really do something especially at these moments when inflation shows us that, in particular, nutrition is the one that increases costs. We should do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u580	We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 37. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to the Ministry of Culture, namely the sub-programme Art Programmes, where we have one amendment proposed by the Zares Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I see one hand. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u581	The so-called ministerial reserve is increasing from year to year. This currently accounts for 0.2% of the total budget of the Ministry of Culture. With the proposed amendment, I appeal to you to support it, too, to reduce the money that the Minister may spend on his own free will. In this way, it is avoided by public calls, and in this way it is often embarrassing. We know what discussions were about the allocation of funds to the Slovenian Mathematicians when only this one forgot to attend the call. We know how he knocks on his office, and with success, a number of mayors who gain funds that they could acquire on a public invitation, a political friend or some other, and we also know that the Court of Auditors is often dealing with these inappropriate transfers of money. We oppose the fact that such a reserve remains at the Ministry of Culture and serves with those unforeseen actions that arise for such or other reasons and could not be taken into account earlier when the tender was outside. Of course, we oppose manipulation, exploitation and uncontrolled use of such funds. We redirect them to artistic programs, in short, to those programmes where it is possible to participate in an invitation to tender, where it is possible to subject itself to expert group judgements and where it is possible to avoid political and other manipulations. In fact, whoever examines and examines the funds and redirects these funds into individual pockets will see that they have been used in a way that was not worthy, but often inappropriate, and the minister should and should be responsible for them. In short, the Minister's amendment saves not only for culture but also for finance, it saves from any manipulation or inappropriate decisions made.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u582	Thank you. Any other personal requests? [[No, no, ……]] We vote. There are 55 Members and Members present, for 13, for 41. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to the media sub-programme and audiovisual culture, where we have the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 13 to 43. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to the Pet Culture sub-programme, and I am voting on the amendment of the Zares Group. On behalf of the delegation, Mrs. Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u583	In fact, I am conveying to you the voice of many representatives of the amateur culture who have addressed you and all of us in the fear that their resources for their work are falling, and that they are also threatened in the light of the uninterrupted or unknown continuation of cultural tolar funding, which is an important source for the love groups. Let me remind you that there are about 3 000 900 companies in Slovenia and that there are more than 99,000 members. Among these are an additional thousand youth culture societies, with youth cultural centres and more than 32 members. All these companies carry out almost 18,000 actions each year, producing over 400 different publications and books. It is the oldest and most rudimentary form of cultural integration, the work that has fortunately been preserved, but never without the assistance of the state. Given that hearings for their operation, which by the way, are small resources, but yet one society in one local environment also means the former 100,000 tolars quite something. I appeal to you to support this amendment. It was only at the request of those who were not heard by the Ministry of Culture and perhaps thought you would hear them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u584	Thank you. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 13 to 43. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. And the last amendment I put to the vote, the National Community Group of Ambassadors, in the sub-programme of the Investment in Culture. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, for 55, for 2. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 as a whole. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 14. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that a specific part of the proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the 2008 plan for the development programmes of the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 13. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the 2008 draft amending budget of the Republic of Slovenia has been adopted. We have completed the decision on individual parts of the proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. With regard to the harmonisation of the individual parts of the budget, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Lavrich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u585	Thank you, Mr. President. Due to the amendments adopted to the sub-programmes of the specific part of the 2008 draft amending budget, the budget is not harmonised in part, it is said, between the general work, the specific work and the development programme plan. It is therefore necessary to draw up a harmonisation amendment to harmonise the budget. It takes 20 minutes for the government to prepare this material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u586	Thank you. The National Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy will be defined by the harmonisation amendment after we consider or vote on the amendments to the 2009 budget and will probably require coordination there. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda - dealing with the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009. Do you want an explanation or a procedural one? Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u587	Dear Members! On behalf of the Group of Members, I propose that we suspend the meeting for today. I know that parliamentary travel around the world and across Europe is announced for tomorrow, but I personally believe that the work of Members in the country is much more important than the so-called Members' Travels or, according to your Members' Commitments. I believe that if you insist on meeting today, there will be a so-called element of indiscretion, whether because of obstruction or because of the fatigue of the ruling or opposition Members. I propose that the Council of State declares this, so that today we finish the work and continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. or 10 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u588	Thank you. The College adopted the meeting's timetable, which is intended to conclude today's consideration of the budget. But if you have a procedural proposal to stop it, please design it. Please, Mr. Pece, form a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u589	Thank you for your word. I thought I was clear enough. My procedural proposal is that today we stop the session at the point where we are today and continue our work tomorrow. However, the explanation of the procedural proposal is my fear that at late hours the National Assembly will become unconcealed because of the sleepiness, fatigue of the ruling or opposition Members, or the possible obstruction of the work, the manner of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u590	Thank you. You have heard the procedural proposal to stop and continue tomorrow, even though the problem is, because there are already working bodies tomorrow, then this will change. Certainly, the procedural proposal is here and I put it to the vote. We're voting. The procedural proposal shall be put to the vote. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 45. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the procedural proposal has not been adopted, so we continue with the meeting. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, this is by deciding on the general part of the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u591	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The general budget for 2009 is firstly the budget for the first year of the new mandate. Just like he's prepared to hide too much trap to be accepted. On the income side, contrary to the Constitutional Court’s decision, it provides insufficient funds for municipalities and, therefore, in this State proposal, it was relatively easy to spend money on the expenditure side in the State budget proposal. On the revenue side, this budget also provides for almost 300 million more revenue, in revenue quotations, or indications, which will not be realized. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will not support the draft general budget for 2009, but we believe that it will have to be prepared on a new basis, taking into account the Constitutional Court's decision on municipalities and also depending on the decisions on the financing of the provinces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u592	Thank you. Mr. Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u593	Thank you very much. I'll be brief too. We will support this budget or this general part. They supported the continuation of some positive trends and deficits, and the deficit in 2009 is declining to EUR 125 million, or only EUR 0.3, which is a 50% reduction, according to 2008. We also support the decline in total expenditure in 2009 compared to 2008 of 2.8%, which is much lower than projected revenue growth, 4.1%, or GDP growth, 4.3%, indicating that the budget is prepared austerity and anti-inflationary, but we also support that some items, such as for science and technological development, for education, for social protection, are increasing according to the 2008 budget. We will support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u594	Thank you. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u595	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Group will support the 2009 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which is record-breaking, at least in two segments, for the first time: we are facing the lowest share of tax revenue in the budget measured in the share of gross domestic product, secondly, we have the smallest deficit in the country's history, and it is also important to point out that the budget shows special attention to the education and education segment. For the past two days, we have also heard many discussions on inflation in the Republic of Slovenia. This is a problem, but it is not only Slovenia, and we will obviously have to solve it within the European monetary union, but yesterday around 12 we received information that the largest European economy is facing 3% inflation, which has not been known in the last 13 years. The 2009 budget of the Republic of Slovenia is good and has all the extensions so that it can be settled next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u596	Thank you. Mr. Pece, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u597	Thank you very much. In view of the latest developments in relation to the 2008 budget, given the total ignorance of the amendments signed by the Slovenian National Party, as well as the ignorance of the amendments where the Slovenian National Party was co-signed, I announce in part of the 2009 budget for the obstruction. So, within this agenda item. In addition, I support the fact that the State budget is poor, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not want to listen to criticisms or corrections at any point. The facts that emerged during the debate on the amendments, as well as in the context of the explanations of vote, were that this Government and this coalition favoured weapons from education and that this Government and this coalition favoured weapons from education and that this Government was holding its eyes against itself in the economic field as well as against measures to prevent the deterioration of the economic situation. Therefore, as we say, we are predicting, within the framework of the National Party's Group, an obstruction for this part of the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u598	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. Please take your seats and calm down. We're voting. A vote on the overall work of the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009 is under way. The first vote was not successful due to indiscretion, so we will do it another time. We vote in second place and I warn you, there are enough of them in the Chamber to vote. Please take your seats. We are moving on to a second general work vote. The vote is currently under way on the general part of 2009. Still inconclusive. So, I'm adjourning the session and we're going to continue it five minutes past 9:30, that's 19.35.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u599	Dear Members and Members. We continue with the meeting and move on to the third attempt to vote on the general part of 2009. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 54 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 8. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the general part of the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on amendments to the individual part of the complementary part of the 2009 draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Yeah, to a special job. They are recorded in the review of the amendments of 23.11.2007. I would also like to point out that the amendment of the LDS Group, listed on the 32nd page of the review of amendments to the Higher Education sub-programme, concerns the budgetary user the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, and not the user of the Ministry of Education and Sport. Please take this into account. We will vote on individual budget users and sub-programmes to which amendments have been tabled. First, we open a user to prevent corruption by the Commission. We have in our sub-programme the Regulation on the Prevention of Corruption of the Zares Group's Amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 56 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 45. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to the Nationality Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and we have two amendments in the sub-programme Support for Nationalities Communities. The first is the Italian and Hungarian national groups' delegation. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 53 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 42. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We vote on the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the Nationalities of the Republic of Hungary under number 2. The vote is under way. There are 57 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world. We are voting on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the sub-programme Support to Slovenians in place and abroad. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 44. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to the Ministry of Finance, in the sub-programme Additional funds to the municipalities, we have the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group, which I am voting on. Mr. Squeakl, on behalf of the Group of Members, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u600	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment, which we are considering to the National Assembly, is trying to eliminate unconstitutionality to a certain extent. This unconstitutionality has been defined as unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, and it is therefore right to support the amendment and thus to express at least respect for the Constitutional Court, if not for other parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u601	Thank you. On behalf of the House of Representatives, Mr. Pache, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u602	Thank you. Dear Members and Members! I am informing you that, within the framework of the National Party, we are cancelling the announced obstruction and will indeed participate in this debate in a qualitative manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u603	Thank you. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 41. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a sub-programme for implementing foreign policy, where we have the amendments of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Pece, please, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u604	Thank you very much. So, in the framework of the consultation we had in the parliamentary group, and in the light of the discussions with some Members, I ask, under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the chair to order a 45-minute recess before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u605	Thank you. Anyone else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Then, at the request of the Slovenian National Party Group, I shall suspend until 20.25. I'm putting an end to this session and we'll continue at 8:25.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u606	Dear Members, honourable Members, we are continuing our meeting. I give the floor to Mr Péčet for an explanation or if he wants to explain what the Group of Members has agreed on in the meantime. You don't want to. Thank you. So, we're going to the vote. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 50 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 41. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the SNS Group to the sub-programme of the Ministry of Defence International Cooperation. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 51 Members and Members present, 7 votes against 44. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue. We have two amendments to the International Cooperation Sub-programme. The first was tabled by the LDS Group and put to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 51 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 42. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the same sub-programme. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 55 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 45. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the Ministry of the Economy to the sub-programme of the Programmes for the Promotion of Technological Development of the Economy, where we have two amendments. First, we vote on the amendment of the Zares Group. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 44. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 44. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the subroutine of Electronic Communications and Mail, where we have two amendments. First, we vote on the amendment of the Zares Group. An explanation of vote, on behalf of the parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u607	Thank you very much. I really need to get this. We passed the Digital Broadcasting Act, the chapter on transition and household costs is very poorly processed. The year 2009 is already the year in which this transition is taking place, so it is imperative to increase this item, otherwise this transition will not take place or cause strong social tensions. I hope you understand this and you will support this amendment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u608	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 45. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the vote the amendments of the Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 45. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme of Competitiveness Programmes where we have three amendments. First, we vote on the amendment of the Zares Group. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 44. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 45. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the vote of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 45. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme called Restructuring of Enterprises, where we have one amendment: the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Squeakl, explanation of vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u609	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is a similar amendment to the one you have unfortunately rejected for 2008, which is now in 2009. I believe we'll have another coalition then. At the same time, of course, we will have many more problems in the Slovenian economy due to the accelerated inflation generated by the 2008 budget. As a consequence, the need to provide funds to restructure businesses will be so much greater. I must say that I do not understand the Government's explanation, which says that, despite the fact that funds are falling in the 2009 budget in relation to 2008, there will be more problems that these funds are sufficient and that, of course, the Government is quoting, I quote Mr Anderlich, rejecting the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group. I propose because this is 2009 because there is a need for co-financing of business restructuring programmes to support the amendment, of course. Perhaps, of course, it will help him, but sometimes you are wrong and of course it is human, and if you made a mistake earlier in the 2008 vote, there is no mistake in supporting the 2009 amendment vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u610	Thank you. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 45. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a sub-programme to promote the development of a small economy where we have two amendments. The first is proposed by the LDS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 45. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 44. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to the Competition Protection Office of the Republic of Slovenia, where we have one amendment in the Competition Protection sub-programme. The amendment is proposed by the SD Group of Members. Mr. Squeakl on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u611	I just want to remind the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups that you have previously supported such an amendment and that you will now do so, because I see that there is some ambiguity, whether to support it or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u612	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 13. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to the user Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. In the sub-programme Protection and registration of varieties of plants we have the amendment of the Zares Group. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 42. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SNS Group's SNS sub-programme to reduce agricultural damage. Please, Mr Pece, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u613	Thank you very much. I'll finish it first. I would just like to inform the honourable Members that Members of the SNS will not vote by the Slovenian National Party in this amendment and in other amendments. Why? Because we want the will of the National Assembly to be seen in perfection. The will of the National Assembly to this content, and to the other content that we propose, to be in the field of education, the protection of cultural heritage, unfortunately, nature is negative. Therefore, from this title I also call on all those Members, 10 or 11, as far as we are now supporting all the amendments, not to define ourselves to this amendment, but to let the entire Slovenian public know that we have a majority in the National Assembly that opposes good proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u614	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, please. On behalf of the House of Representatives, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u615	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, thank you for your support for the previous amendment, I think it's good. However, I regret, of course, that Mr President of the Government did not speak in an interview today about the damage in agriculture, floods, additional money for the schooling youth, because then we would have more support for the amendment. It's a shame that he only dealt with competition protection today. Thank you very much. But I suggest you support the amendment. I'll back him up myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u616	Thank you. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 51 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 43. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the Ministry of Transport. We have two amendments in the subroutine of the Highway Construction Facility. First, we vote on the amendment of the SNS Group. Mr. Pece, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u617	Thank you very much. The same explanation, as in the previous amendment, only that I had previously forgotten that the members of the National Party had worked extremely hard to write such changes, both by Bosnia and Herzegovina Zagorec and by her fellow Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Bogdan Barovic, Friend's Happiness and the Victory of Jelinčič Trimenite. Unfortunately, however, the noble or pursuit of the objectives of this amendment has also proved to be an unrealistic expectation in 2008 of the National Party's Group of Members, so in this and other amendments I am predicting that we will not even support them, and once again I appeal to all those 11 Members who generally support the good amendments to hold back this time. Let the Slovenian public see what Parliament is like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u618	Thank you. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 54 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 45. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 45. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the airports and airport infrastructure where we have the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 45. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the Slovenian Directorate for Roads, Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads, where we have 15 amendments. First, we vote on the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors, under number 1. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 45. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors under number 2. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 41. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors under number 3. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 44. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors under number 4. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present for 11 to 44. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors under number 5. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members, for 10, for 45. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors under number 6. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present for 11 to 43. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against.43]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors under number 7. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 13 to 44. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors under number 8. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, for 12, for 43. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the vote on the amendment of the LDS Group of Ambassadors under number 9. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 44. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment of the LDS Group of Members under number 10. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 44. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment of the LDS Group of Ambassadors under number 11. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 44. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment of the LDS Group of Ambassadors under number 12. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 45. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment of the LDS Group of Ambassadors under number 13. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 43. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors under number 14. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 44. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors under number 15. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 45. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are now moving to the Ministry of Environment and Space. First, to promote efficient use and renewable energy sources. The amendment is proposed by the Zares Group of Members. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 43. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to the Promotion of Housing Building, where we have the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Squeakl, on behalf of the Group of Members, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u619	Since 2007, we have abolished housing relief, making it impossible for 104 000 taxpayers to deduct 6% of their income from their tax base in 2007, 2008 and so on, which means an important part of the payment of annuity. For this reason, the economic situation of 100,000 younger ones, or those who have their own resources to solve the housing problem, has deteriorated to a large extent. Many more people are now unable to borrow credits, so the need to promote housing with direct subsidies through the Ministry of Environment and Space, the resources are insufficient, the latest analysis shows that on average individuals should receive 300, 400, 500 euros, so we provide additional funds. If they hold government assessments, these additional funds, according to government allegations, could provide nearly 4,200 young families with a solution to the housing problem. You're saying that you're a coalition that advocates fertility, that you're for young families, with the support of the amendment, you'll prove it. Otherwise, we too will make a poster against solving the problems of young families.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u620	Thank you. Mr. Pece, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u621	Your Honors are here! We had a fight against corruption, we had an increase in resources to promote economic competitiveness, we had an increase in funds in business restructuring, we had an increase in funds for new construction, adaptations to existing ones, it was always a result of 44 to 10 Members "for". I even tried once to see if anything would affect you, not to press the button, or any of the members of the National Party, and it didn't help. From this place, I believe, especially given that our country's priority in young people and one of the components of the fight for young people is also a housing issue. Let's at least support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u622	Thank you. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 43. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme Special programmes in case of accidents, we have one amendment from the LDS Group. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 44. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the Sub-programme Planning, Water Protection and Water Management, we have one amendment, namely the Social Democrats' Group. Mr. Squeakle, on behalf of the House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u623	The government says that an additional €6 million, a total of €12 million, provides for the resolution or resolution of all problems with water protection and water management planning. It is estimated that the various damage in recent catches was almost 200 million and a significant part of this damage relates to unregulated watercourses. We ourselves estimate that, in the absence of a specific law to deal with the consequences of the natural disasters of this fall, there is one rare possibility of providing sufficient resources with the support of the proposed amendment, so I propose that you support it. On the contrary, I predict that, at least personally, I will consider whether it would be necessary to adopt a specific law to provide money in the 2008 and 2009 national budgets to ensure that the consequences of natural capture in the Railways are addressed. You know, the Ministry's representatives are particularly aware that the funds to be booked at the end of the year at the special accident fund will not be sufficient, but in particular the purpose and intention of spending are not clearly defined. That's why we have a chance here to support this. This will provide additional resources. Otherwise, we will meet with another law, and I hope that we will then have more support, especially from those Members, Members who are or are from the environment affected by the floods. Providing resources in the field of water planning and water management is a preventive activity, in order to eliminate and pre-empt the major threats that have taken place. Of course there are different experiences around the world, but it is always estimated that, as the English say, one pound of money invested in water planning, protection and management prevents up to five pounds of damage at this point. So, Members and Members, support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u624	Thank you. Mr. Gantar, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u625	Thank you very much. I'd say that. On Friday, Minister Podobnik in Railways, if I am not mistaken, will sign a solemn and solemn implementation contract of EUR 5 million additional to remedy the consequences of the storm and damage. Of course, these works and these invoices will come in 2008 and will then be paid, nothing special. But they will be paid from the regular funds that this National Assembly has dedicated to water regulation; but these five million for this year are not, are not and will not be, and will be settled from the budget for the following year. It would therefore be right, of course, that by 2008, if not in 2008, at least in 2009, you would have increased these funds, either by this amendment or by means of an amendment that you have already rejected, and in some way have provided these additional five million that you have promised, but you will not actually implement them. Therefore, it would be appropriate for this amendment, at least this amendment, to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u626	Thank you. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 40. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which is a sub-programme to increase employment. I have an amendment from the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 45. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Ensuring social inclusion, where we have one amendment from the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 45. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to creating new jobs and increasing the flexibility of businesses, namely, we have two amendments. I shall put to the vote the first, namely, the LDS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 44. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendments of the SD Group of Members under number 2. Mr. Squeakl, please, you have the floor on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u627	I am speaking because the Government's explanation is something like this: "The money is enough, both with the money we have in the budget and the active employment policy, as is what is planned with the European Social Fund's funds." I don't know if you remembered or if you remember yesterday's debate about drawing on European funds. The European Social Fund envisages less than 10% of this year's implementation. The Minister of Finance himself said how big the problems are by drawing on the European Social Fund. So at least this explanation is completely wrong not to say false. We therefore believe that the provision of additional resources from the integrated budget, rather than simply relying on the European Social Fund, is essential. Before we can fully draw on the European Social Fund in Slovenia, there will obviously be a lot of work to be done in employment institutions. This has not been done at the time of this Government's mandate, so I fear that the creation of high-quality jobs with high added value will remain poorly achieved and the challenge of the coming periods.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u628	Thank you. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 44. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Other programmes to help the family, where we have the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 39. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme for social protection and compensation for the restructuring of production. We have an amendment from the LDS Group. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, for 14, for 43. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities, where we have two amendments, and I am putting to the vote the first one prepared by the Zares Group. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, for 17, for 40. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendments of the LDS Group of Members under number 2. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present for 18 to 40. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme of social protection for the materially disadvantaged, where we have one amendment of the LDS Group. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 44. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Public and Social Protection Development Programmes. We have one amendment, namely the Zares Group. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 16 to 43. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the Ministry of Health, namely the Sub-programme Investment Investments in Hospitals, where we have two amendments. First, I will put to the vote the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, for 17, for 41. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 41.]] It notes that the amendment has not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendments of the LDS Group of Ambassadors under number 2. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 13 to 43. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme on environmental and chemical safety in the field of health. We have one amendment, namely the Zares Group. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 44. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Programmes for the protection and strengthening of health, reduction of health differences and development and research activities. We have one amendment, namely the LDS Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 57 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 43. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, to the sub-programme of Higher Education, where we have one amendment, namely the LDS Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 45. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the Ministry of Education and Sport, which is a sub-programme of Primary Education, where we have three amendments. We will first vote on the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors under number 1. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 57 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 44. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors under number 2. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 45. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the vote the amendments of the Italian and Hungarian national groups under number 3. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 57 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 44. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme Help in primary education, namely one amendment of the LDS Group. Mr. Squeakl, please, on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u629	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw attention to cynicism in the Government of Slovenia's explanation for rejecting this amendment, rejecting it because it estimates that in 2009 it will be sufficient to provide 61.100 pupils with 0.54 euros or 54 cents per day per student. The number does not mean anything, but if you look at that the government allocated 0.53 euros or 53 cents for 2008 it is necessary to ask whether it is enough to increase the food subsidy by 1 cent per student, after we now have a growth in food prices at 13.3%. This is cynicism, and this cynicism will mean that either food will be less quality or fewer students will receive this subsidy. We have taken a break today, if you remember, at lunchtime, in order to ensure quality nutrition for Members, Members and all those who participate in this meeting of the National Assembly, and here we raise a subsidy for 1 cent to the student, and the Government says that is enough. Go see what a basket of food means in 2008, and ask yourself if 1 cent will be sufficient for additional subsidisation. That is why I propose that you support the amendment and ensure that we give two or maybe three cents more than the Government wants to devote.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u630	Thank you. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 45. (For the vote was 15.)(against 45.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the help subroutine in high school. We have two amendments. First, I shall put to the vote the amendment of the LDS Group under number 1. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 15 votes against 44. (vote 15.)(against 44.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendments of the LDS Group of Ambassadors under number 2. Mr. Squeakl, please, on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u631	If you support this amendment, you have the opportunity not to be the coalition that has increased the student's diet for a dime, but if you refuse this amendment, then you will continue to provide poor nutrition for both primary school and high school students. Do you really want to join history as the coalition that did this? And that's not even for your mandate, but it's for the mandate of the next government. I therefore estimate that, as Members of Parliament, in full consciousness, you have the right to decide, irrespective of the unjustified, wrong opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Minister for Education and Sports is a real one, I apologize, says "Mr. Beast."
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u632	You know what, Mr. Squeakl, this is no explanation for what you're doing. Please be more correct. We are in Parliament, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 43. (For the vote was 15.)(against 43.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the Ministry of Culture, which is a sub-programme of Arts programmes where we have one amendment of the Zares Group. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 45. [[in favour of a vote of 14.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the media sub-programme and audiovisual culture, where we have one amendment, namely the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 44. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the subroutine of Library and Publishing. We have two amendments. First, I'm putting the LDS Group amendment under number one. Mr. School on behalf of the Member of Parliament, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u633	I came just in time to remind you that a few days ago you had adopted a law on a proposal from the DSP and the Ministry of Culture that had just brought the Book Agency into the world. I already told you that this agency needs to be provided with funds. Now it turns out you didn't really have great intentions with this agency. The Minister of Culture promised the public that article 11 of that law was not necessary because it was possible [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u634	Mr. Skull, an explanation of the voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u635	Mr. Sugar, that's exactly what I'm explaining. At the same time, the minister said that there was no need in the law to ensure that this could be done through the budget and other instruments. We are now in a situation where the budget can adopt an enlarged item. I am joining Mr. Squill, who has previously been unjustifiably reproved so as not to explain the content of the amendments. We could at least hypothetically put ourselves in a position to vote on this as a future opposition. Therefore, give support to this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u636	Thank you. Anyone else in their personal name? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, for 17, for 41. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group as number 2. Mr. Cwickl, to explain the vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u637	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will explain my vote on what I have in the documents, and I apologize if I misnamed someone before, but I suppose Mr Beast agrees that there are 54 cents. Here too is this amendment, which speaks of the fact that the Government is in no way able to accept the amendment, because the public economic office of Brdo, the protocol service, needs exactly all these 200,000 euros that would be given to me on the books. Librarianism, publishing is one of the few national policies that are not European policies, policies that are not supported by the European budget. At the time of the presidency, perhaps it would be better to issue some Trubar or some other book, and it would be better to cut 200 000 euros by the 200 000 euros of money spent on this 15 million-euro expensive protocol facility and make it available for the book. After all, it's possible, you know, you donate the book more easily and people take it with them, and you can't take the expensive chair out of the protocol facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u638	Thank you. Mrs Shirca, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u639	On behalf of the Group of Members, I remind you that the share of money for culture in 2009, when this Government no longer has a start and is not identified anymore, is lower than it has ever been since 1992. And that the share of the cultural budget in the entire budget of the Republic of Slovenia is the lowest or the same after 2006 is certainly 2,01 000ths of the total budget, while the share in GDP is 0.47ths, since it was significantly higher in 1992. In short, in 2009, you are reducing the substantial share of money for culture and not even indexing it for the level of inflation. This amendment, which, in fact, reminds you that when you go past the book fair now, you will have to wrap it around a little bit, because all the outsiders will be watching you, those who were here a week ago providing them with loyalty and showing their broad heart when you did a fabled historical act and set up the Book Agency. The Book Agency without this amendment is an empty promise. The book agency will have some independent and certainly good form of thinking and policymaking, but if it does not have this fixed assurance, which would mean that the money collected from the book will return to the book, then it will not live in that light, as you assured her it will live recently. You all voted to set up a budget fund for the book when you sat on this page. At the time, you all supported that this was going into the national cultural programme. Today you have rejected the first amendment, and you will undoubtedly also reject it, once we have discussed it, but you have not rejected it when you raised your vote for the Book Agency. In short, empty promises are not easy for you to proudly, in 2009, you may no longer have to worry and answer for the Ministry of Culture and this budget, and you are certainly in charge today.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u640	Thank you. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 41. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the sub-programme Pet Culture, we have an amendment, namely the ZARES Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 44. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme of Investments in Culture, where we have one amendment, namely, the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 2. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009 as a whole. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 14. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that a specific part of the Republic of Slovenia's complementary draft budget for 2009 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the 2009 Development Programme Plan of the Additional Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. On behalf of the parliamentary group, does anyone want to explain their vote? I can only see one hand. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u641	Thank you very much. The 2009 and 2013 development programmes plan is the best evidence that there is not much left of the economic social reform framework. The resolution on national development projects, 34 projects, EUR 23 billion, does not reflect in the development programme plan, even though it requires legislation and even though it was the wish of the coalition. All of this is not in the development programme plan. It turns out that thinking about what will happen by 2023 instead of thinking about what will happen by 2008 is not a real political strategy. It is particularly problematic that the development programme plan does not adequately involve European funds, because the programmes are broken down and in fact does not know what will be financed from European funds. This will only prove to be dependent on how individual congregations coordinate or fail to coordinate and prepare programmes. Thus, the 2009-2013 development programme plan, and in particular the lost opportunity for the coalition, has been written in its plans by some of the so-called 'lighthouse promises', and in particular the lost opportunity for Slovenia in its entirety to reflect on how €5 billion of available European funds can be created into several ten major projects or groups of projects and put them into a development programme plan. If, when we get the provinces, if, of course, we conduct longer-term budget planning more appropriately, it will be possible to correct it. Now, the development agenda plan is a more effective way for individual ministers, such as the Minister of Health, to raise money together, after breaking the costs of performers at the Pediatric Clinic or elsewhere. And the same goes for the Minister of Transport and so on. If and if you would limit the implementation of the Budget Act below, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the rights of ministers, then such a plan of development programmes would make sense to adopt. [[...]] So it's just worth less than the paper on which we print it. Thank you very much. We will not support the plan of development programmes in the Social Democrats' Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u642	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u643	Thus, even according to the National Party's Group's assessment, this part of the budget, i.e. the development programme plan, is no more than a pious desire; a godly desire that has proved to be a failure to draw in the past. Although the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has consistently and consistently said in its reply that it is necessary to take into account the timeliness or timing of the draw and that so far the drawdown of 5, 6 and 13% of cohesion to the provinces and the social fund is not problematic. According to the assessment of the National Party's Group, if we would like to pursue this part of the budget, then the sum of ministries should be defined differently, rather than identifying individual parts. Therefore, we will not support this title of this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u644	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 15. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the 2009 Development Programme Plan of the Additional Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia has been adopted. We have completed our decision-making on the individual parts of the proposal for the 2009 Supplemental Draft Budget. With regard to the harmonisation of the individual parts of the budget, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u645	Thank you, Mr. President. Due to the amendments adopted to the sub-programmes of the specific part of the 2009 proposed supplementary budget, the budget is not harmonised in terms of parts, which is between the general work, the specific work and the development programme plan, and therefore an amendment needs to be drawn up to harmonise the budget. The government can prepare it in 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u646	Thank you. Thus, until the 2008 and 2009 harmonisation amendments, the Financial and Monetary Policy Committee will be defined. This concludes this agenda item. The government, as you have heard, has warned that the harmonisation amendments will be forwarded by the two budgets by 21.45 p.m. and that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy will meet in the Salon at 21.45 p.m. to identify itself until the harmonisation amendments. The meeting will continue at 8.15 p.m. I'm adjourning the session, which we're going to continue at 8:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u647	Dear Members and honourable Members! We're continuing the meeting of the choir. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, this is to the harmonisation process of the Draft amending budget for 2008. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has pointed out that the proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 is inconsistent with the adopted amendments to the specific work. The government has prepared the harmonisation amendment you received on the bench. The amendment was defined by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, whose report you received on the bench. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to the 2008 draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Would you like a word from the government? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the parent's working body? Mr. Starman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u648	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. At today's 33rd urgent meeting, 28.11.2007, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia's National Finance and Monetary Policy Committee considered the coordination amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the 2008 Draft amending budget of the Republic of Slovenia and prepared an additional report to the Proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. On the basis of the amendments adopted to the specific part of the 2008 Draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to the budgetary users of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Nationality, the Office for the Protection of Competition, the Ministry of Transport, the Directorate for Roads, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and Sport and the Ministry of Culture, the Government has prepared an amendment to harmonise the draft state budget by part. On the basis of the amendments adopted to the specific part of the draft amending budget, there is a need to harmonise the overall work and to harmonise and complement the development programme plan. This harmonisation amendment has been adopted or supported by the Committee and is also proposed to be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u649	Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Anyone who wants to raise their hand. I can only see one hand. Mr. Pece, please, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u650	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm sure 80% of the members of the National Assembly don't know what this document is talking about. This document, which is now being reproduced and placed on the tables of Members and Members, has no justification in its context or content. However, the representative of the Government refused to say a word to explain the above-mentioned matters. According to my assessment of the document and despite the fact that we are talking about the harmonisation amendment to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, there is no explanation in its contents and the Government representative did not wish to provide an explanation. I think it's time for you to finally think about yourself, what you accept, and above all, how you accept. If any of you succeed at this moment, given that the lady who shares the amendments is still in the Chamber, read this document, which includes quite a few things, gentlemen and of course ladies - sorry, you are very unrealistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u651	Thank you. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the Proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. Explanation of vote on behalf of parliamentary groups or procedurally? I'll make an application. Please sign up on behalf of the Group Members. Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u652	Thank you, President. On behalf of the LDS, I also express my opposition to such a mode of harmonisation as we are experiencing and accepting today. The fact is that the person who has read all of this quickly will note and will find that 63 items in the budget are amended, supplemented, replaced or added. And 63 items in this calculation, which is here before us, cannot be checked and reviewed, it is even less possible to review and define how this number part is calculated in the revenue and expenditure balance. All of this shows that someone is seriously underestimating the adoption of the budget and the harmonisation amendment is an integral part of the budget. For this reason, I predict that the Liberal Democracy will vote against such a harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u653	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u654	Mr. President. I will explain my voice, but the fact is, the government representatives can't answer me, of course, but I don't see at which session the government has adopted this amendment and when it has confirmed it. And whether the Government's representatives are here and the Secretary of State, the conclusions of any other meeting of the Government could be said to be, committed or empowered to accept amendments on behalf of the Government to this extent. I therefore think that the procedure itself is questionable and that we should continue this meeting after the Government's correspondence meeting. Therefore, for these procedural reasons and substantive reasons, we will certainly not support this amendment in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u655	Mr. Gantar, let me mention that we have received a letter with a stamp signed by the Secretary-General of the Government. In the government procedure, whether it accepts it personally or after a correspondence meeting, we don't interfere. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u656	If you don't mind, I just don't think we should be making fun of each other from the legislative branch of power. This power, which you have just given, to the Secretary of State of the Government, is only exaggerated. But let me explain my voice as well. It's been 72 seconds since my colleague Milan Friday, when he started talking, got the amendment in his hands. Amendment, which is on 13 pages and which has the weight of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. 72 seconds! He then spent 54 seconds explaining the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. My colleague Paula Gantar was not much longer. Sorry, at this point, none of us were able to read this document to know what it was voting on. Ladies and gentlemen, think of yourself, none of you knows what the vote is about, what the content offered us by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for admission is, because it is technically impossible for 13 pages of the Act, which has a small press, to read. The representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, however, did not wish to make any comments in the course of the debate or to explain to the amendment. And we can't play with citizens and citizens of our country like that! At the final stage, we are not talking about the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša. The Act, which is called the budget, speaks of citizens and citizens of our country. Our views, however, I believe you do not want to do this, but forgive me, before the vote and within this point I do not predict a 45-minute recess - the act at least I want to read, the harmonisation amendment I want to read, gentlemen and ladies, in contrast to you - but I ask you for a 5-minute recess so that I can read this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u657	Thank you. You'll get a five-minute break, just let's finish the vote-explanatory procedure first. I'm opening the application because there were several deadlines - an application for explanations of vote in my personal name. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u658	Thank you very much. I don't want to waste time, but I have to say that what my colleague Peca just said is bigger. We sit here all day, we vote for all the amendments, and finally he tells us that we do not know what the harmonisation amendment is. Yes, please! You really don't need half an hour to find out that all these amendments are written down that we have adopted today in this harmonisation amendment! And this is not the first time that a harmonisation amendment is finally adopted in this National Assembly when a law is adopted. And the committee has met, the committee has reviewed, prepared, and the Members will be decided here. I will vote in favour of this harmonisation amendment. And I don't know what the problem is now. We've been listening to you all day, and in the end, you're telling us we don't know what we're voting on. Shall I now go and look at all the numbers that the computer has compiled - or should I go and count them? Computerly, they are listed and all amendments are introduced into the harmonisation amendment that was adopted here today at 8 or how many hours of debate. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u659	Thank you. Mr. Pece, you've already explained. In your own name? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u660	Thank you very much. Comrade Sok, how you play with public finances is, of course, a matter of your parliamentary group and you personally. I still argue that the documents on the 13 pages are not capable of reading in the second that I have said, none of the existing Members and Members. From this address, as I have said, I request, on behalf of the Group of Members, a five-minute recess so that I can at least read the act, if not the other, you must at least allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u661	Thank you. This concludes the explanatory phase and gives me a five-minute recess at the request of the SNS Group of Members. I'm adjourning the session and we'll continue at 10:32 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u662	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please take your seats. We're continuing the meeting of the choir. Mr. Pache, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u663	Your Honors are here! I sincerely hope that you do not take my words as opposition words or as a system of speculation. However, if you look at the content of the amendment mentioned above, you will see on the first page that there is no revenue or expenditure defined anywhere, which is an integral part of the content of the amendment to be provided by each Member of the National Assembly if the amendment is to be tabled. We have reached the first point where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is exempted from the rules applicable to all Members and Members of the Parliament. If the amendment had been so written by any member of the National Assembly, it would not have been taken into consideration by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Labour Body. Here I ask the Government representative to explain to me, given that we only have sums in the framework of 3.311, the Ministry of Education and Sport, from where they take the funds mentioned. And below, the Ministry of Culture, 3,511 - where do they take financial resources? In the amendment mentioned before us, ladies and gentlemen, there are only numbers on these two items, no numbers. And all of us who have been in Parliament for several years know the system of work or the system of making amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Not to mention the essential ingredient, of course, that's an explanation. I don't want to continue listening to us sitting together today from 9:00 a.m. until now, but, gentlemen, this is just not how we play with public finances! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia cannot let us out of what colleague Pavel Gantar has said, which I absolutely agree with if we leave this behind, the essential elements do not have a basic amendment! The elements required of us by the services of the National Assembly, and not least if we want the amendment to come under consideration. Here we are talking about an amendment of exceptional quantities, which does not contain any essential ingredients. And let me say, if I have started my debate in this way, that I believe that 80% of the MPs present have not even looked at what they have read, I can say with certainty at this point that 70% of Members have not done so yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u664	Thank you. We vote on the harmonisation amendment. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 10. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 as a whole. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Milan Petek. I can only see one hand. Here you go, Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u665	Thank you, President. It is taking a long time, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues, three days, today especially painful and very visible for the role that we parliamentarians obviously create in the public or the impression that we create. You have not convinced us in the Liberal Democracy that such an amendment is necessary. We note and can only attach to those who have specifically identified in today's debate what the adoption of the farce budget is. And what we're doing today is farce. In doing so, the members of the coalition and the Government did not listen when we made public spending within the framework of what Slovenia should do, they suggested that we abolish the tax on paid wages. When we convinced you that inflation is a serious problem that needs to be addressed in part; that the increase in budgetary expenditure in 2008, compared to the year before, is a 7.5% increase in budgetary expenditure since we take the budget seriously in this country; that the debt and financing of motorways in this way is the driver of inflation and that we should redistribute part of the budget by restructuring; that more resources should be allocated to technological development in many budgetary areas - you have submitted amendments with which you have reduced these funds. You didn't have any hearing to redistribute resources for the needs of socially sensitive categories - I'm talking about transport, nutrition, work of the work of the work centres, you've rejected everything! The funny thing was the debate on the vote on the road amendments, where you took care of each one of your kilometres, which will give you a better basis for the election campaign in 2008. All this, I say, gives us a basis for rejecting such a way of adopting the budget. Before, Willi Trophynik reminded me of a famous Slovenian song he would like to sing, but I don't know. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] If this is going to be a real intonation, but it goes like, "We're still drinking this, and we're going," and we say, "we're taking this and we're going." [[...]] This is obviously your currency for the 2008 budget! We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u666	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u667	So the budget that is ahead of us is the fact that it is not developmentally oriented. But, hand to heart, it doesn't even matter that much, given that we're continuing our marriage tradition. The problem at this point is that in this country today and here we are facing a concept that has been unknown to us for several years, that is, the decline in economic growth and, of course, inflation. This is a much broader concept than, say, the opposition likes the word or the distasteful word of the coalition. But the said act, which is before us today, and, of course, the Minister mentioned, Mr Bajuk, who is here today, is not with anything, with no measure in the above-mentioned budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 highlighted any element or instrument that would be able to fight inflation qualitatively. Gentlemen, inflation is not just, say, a word that is something negative in itself - it has long-term consequences, of course, so we should not play with this concept. Every responsible Member should also expect action from the basic public financial act, so that the measures that will be reflected in the discussions with the social partners, on the other hand, through the regulation of economic growth, not exclusively, but only through the tax policy reflected in the large exporters. But on the other hand, we were talking about depreciation, not least about the appreciation of the euro. What this means for further exporters within our country and thus for our country, i.e. the Republic of Slovenia in general, probably or at least I hope that we do not need to have a special conversation. However, gentlemen and gentlemen, we are adopting an act that is identical to last year, but the economic situation in our country was different in previous years. Therefore, it is not sufficient to use a metric or the formula of Mr Bayuk that, of course, only the coefficients or coefficients 3:4 change in an identical way compared to the already accepted balance and the addition. More should be invested in this basic public financial act. Let me ask the representative of the government to at least talk about the harmonisation amendment by 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u668	Thank you. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 12. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 is fully adopted. On the basis of the eighth paragraph of Article 163 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite the assembly to adopt the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia authorises the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Mr Bojan Starman, Mr. Franz Feri Horvat and Mr Cyril Testen, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, on the basis of the decisions taken by the National Assembly, to prepare the final text of amendments to the 2008 budget of the Republic of Slovenia." We vote on this decision. There are 56 Members present and 50 voted against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of item 2 of the agenda - the process of harmonising the updated draft budget for 2009. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has pointed out that the 2009 draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia is not aligned with the adopted amendments to the specific work. The government has prepared the harmonisation amendment you received on the bench. The amendment was also defined by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. You received the committee's report on the bench. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to the 2009 supplementary budget proposal of the Republic of Slovenia. Would you like a word from the government? No, no, no. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the parent's working body? Mr. Starman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u669	Thank you so much for saying that again. Pursuant to Article 42 and Article 163(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Finance and Monetary Policy, as the parent working body, gives the following additional report on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee of the National Assembly, which met at this evening's meeting on 28.11. as a working body, considered this harmonisation amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of the amendments adopted in the special part of the 2009 Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia to the budgetary users of the Nationality Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - Support to the nationalities communities, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of competition and the Ministry of Culture, the Government has prepared an amendment to harmonise the complementary draft state budget in individual parts. On the basis of the amendments adopted to the specific part of the draft budget, it is necessary to align them with the general part of the development programme plan. I would say that we have not been able to examine and verify all of this data very carefully, but we trust that the amendment contains exactly what we have adopted here in the form of amendments, both on those items where it increases, and on those items that are falling. I would just like to say this because you just voted: the committee checks the correctness of this harmonisation amendment. The Special Commission, which you have just confirmed, is obliged to verify the correctness - and the Legal and Legal Service - and only after that verification is the bill suitable for publication. Just for the record. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u670	Thank you. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. I only see two hands so far? Any other ones? No, no, no. Mr. Skull, please, on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u671	Thank you very much. So, my colleague Starman convinced me we're buying a cat in a jacket. That our committee could not fully verify all the numbers proposed by the Ministry, Mr Bayuk, who could say so, did not tell which numbers and how they had changed. They've moved this to our esteemed colleagues to do. I would promise in advance that I would vote in favour of such a harmonisation amendment if Minister Bajuk could say before this meeting what numbers and how they change in this amendment. But since I doubt that he can do it, and because he has also escaped from the hall, I think the only logical thing to do is to reject such an amendment and not cooperate, I will say, in this pharsic procedure. I have been participating in the adoption of budgets since 1990. I don't remember having a minister who couldn't explain the harmonisation amendment. It may have happened at some point that his associates had to answer for certain items, but for that key operation that actually made the budget, and which in this case, I have to say, is actually quite simple, but the ministers usually managed those kind words and arguments to do so. Our minister can't do that. Perhaps, as my colleague Gulič would say, he feels this particular crisis because of his former colleague, the Minister of Health, and he must spend more time in front of Parliament than in this Chamber to shake up ashes and other things. But today we're adopting a budget. [[....]] [[The voice from the hall.]] Please. [[...]] I can tell you that later if you're particularly interested.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u672	Please, Mr. Školč, give your opinion [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u673	Gentlemen, I can tell you more things that just shake off and intertwine, but at this point we expect something else from him. We expect a simple explanation of the harmonisation amendment. I suppose, as usual, he wasn't on the Finance Board either, because I saw him shake jokes in the direct transmission in Odessa. It's certainly better that he did. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u674	Mr. Skull, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u675	Yes, please, Mr. President. We have a budget adoption, a key act, we have some working bodies, you spend half an hour, the minister chooses to play on the TV show instead of performing on the key committee. This could be discussed. You don't think that's funny and unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u676	This is not the time for this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u677	You have a problem with every debate, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u678	Mr Školč, please explain your voice as you should, or stop the controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u679	I am currently discussing the harmonisation amendment. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u680	Thank you. Mr. Pece, please, on behalf of the Group of Members. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] [[...]] Mr. Pece, do you give up? All right, thanks. Mr. Trophynic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u681	I don't know how you came to this conclusion that I'm giving up?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u682	You didn't want to hear from me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u683	Look, I don't think there's any need to deal with this amendment. I am asking you, in the present situation, Mr President, also Mr Plevelje, not least to you, Mr Starman, who I know that you are familiar with and if the Minister were also present before us, even him, only if you open the first page and look within the framework of the amendment to see that we are taking EUR 166 000 from the equipment of the Slovenian Army for the main equipment and adding to the Hungarian cultural centre of Banffy, I think this is an excuse, Lendava 86 thousand euros. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only from this title that there is still an additional €80,000. Mr. Starman, please take a look, because, yes, you have to coordinate plus and minus! At this point, you have a negative of 166 000 euros on the front page. It's meaningful! It's only a plus for 86,000! It's primary math! That there's 80,000 euros missing! I'm not asking you anything but to look at it. As with the budget, the harmonisation amendment must be harmonised. So it's zero! As long as you take it, you have to give it! Comrade Starman, please give me a procedural objection and tell me that there is simply no math going through here. Don't ask me to go to the Legislative and Legal Service tomorrow if, today, through the President of the National Assembly, I won't be able to achieve what should happen between us, not blindly, to follow a minister who won't even defend things. Look, when my friend Skull talked, he went out. The President of the National Assembly did not even allow his colleague, Školč, to tell the whole story. All you have to do is open the front page and look at the pluses and minuses!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u684	Thank you. Mr. Trophynic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u685	Thank you for your word. As a member of the committee, I have maintained myself on the committee itself, but I have pointed out the questionability of drafting both of the harmonisation amendments. For the first time since 1996, I have been a permanent member of this committee, that there has been no legislative and legal service present, and we have not had a basic professional service to assess whether there is a formal harmonisation amendment, I am talking about 2009 that no one will be able to tell me anything, correct. That is why we cannot support him in our parliamentary group, not because we have been misinterpreted, what is the task of the previously appointed commission. And a similar or equal commission will also be appointed for this, a commission which does not verify the correctness of the harmonisation amendment, respected colleagues and colleagues, but the correctness of the text for publication in the Official Journal with the decisions taken in the National Assembly. These are two different forces, and we will not even know if we have adopted a revised budget. This is why we cannot take responsibility and we will not vote in favour of the harmonisation amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u686	Thank you. In view of the fact that the debaters wanted an answer to some of the allegations, particularly those mentioned by Mr Pece, I ask whether there is any objection that the representative of the Government would explain the issue of the harmonisation amendment at the point as it has been problematic. It is not possible under the rules of procedure, but if no one objects, we can give the floor. Is anyone against it? I see hands against. Mr. Lavrich, would you like a word? You have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u687	Mr. Minister, our Rules of Procedure say that the Minister is replaced by other officials when he is not present. The Minister is here and I ask you to give him your word. We can wait for him that minute. The purpose of these provisions and the responsibility of the Government is for the President and ministers to be responsible for their areas. It cannot happen that when the Minister's response is sought and it is present, especially when we are talking about the budget, that it hides itself from Members and does not respond. This is a scandalous and unacceptable joke at the expense of parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u688	Thank you. Since the Minister is not in the Chamber, I am adjourning the meeting, which we will resume in four minutes, which is at 2300 hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u689	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please take your seats. First of all, Mr. Secretary has the floor. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u690	Thank you very much. The harmonisation amendment has a text and also an annex. In the text you referred to, the changes in the projects are because these three amendments that have been adopted actually affect these projects. And that's 166,000 and 86,000. But when we talk about the whole, you can see this in the annex, this is the third general part, the second column where amendments are adopted and it is clear which they are. If you go to the side of three out of six, it's 166 minus 166 at current expenditure, and also the distribution where you're going, 166 and 80. That's why you can't see it on the front page, because it's always done that way and there's no news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u691	Thank you. This concludes the debate. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u692	Dear Mr. President! I think what's going on here today is too much to let one MEP literally make a fool of himself from the National Assembly. We've got the table material. It's all beautifully written in the paper. The harmonisation amendment is not only on the first page but it also states that it is an annex to this harmonisation amendment, in which all these numbers are clarified. What the Minister said is part of this change is indicated in the development programmes and part of the balance sheet. I do not understand, however, that for the last five hours, the Vice-President of the National Assembly may abuse this Parliament for his flies. That's unacceptable. And I ask you not to allow this to happen in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u693	Mr. Blackach, I asked if we could give the floor to the minister. No one objected. I don't think I broke the rules of procedure. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009. You'll get the word, Mr. Pache, just let me always finish the sentence. Here, you have the option of making a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u694	Comrade Chernač, why are you looking for an argument because our purpose is that if the National Assembly accepts the harmonisation amendment, it is at least correctly written. And the fact is, on the front page, there's a missing item for transfers to non-profit organisations. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u695	This is a debate, Mr. Pache, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u696	And I'm setting up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u697	Not a conundrum [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u698	Mr President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u699	Let me understand. [[....]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u700	Mr Minister will understand the content and will see that the first essential page of the amendment needs to be completed, not an explanation. Mr President, do not allow this kind of amendment to go to the vote with a lack of 80,000. It only needs to be completed with one more indent. And that's why I asked my colleague Starman, who I know knows knows the situation, including my colleague Plewell, just to show you that this is really missing in the basic part of the amendment. Do not refer to explanations, ladies and gentlemen, as we are supposed to be working legally. It's not about arguing, it's about accepting something, it's about keeping it in line with the plus and minus, the balanced amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u701	Mr Pece, this is your opinion, which, of course, differs from that of others. We are voting on the harmonisation amendment. There are 55 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 13. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the 2009 updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I can only see one hand. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u702	Ladies and gentlemen, the 2009 budget is not harmonised. However, on the basis of the amendment adopted, regardless of who will watch it tomorrow or tomorrow, there is a lack of €80,000 due to the ignorance or ignorance of Mr Bayuk and your unwillingness to complete the harmonisation amendment. Come on, before you vote on the 2009 budget, fix this mistake. Of course, I will oppose the budget myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u703	Thank you. We're voting. The vote on the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009 is under way. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 13. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009 is fully adopted. On the basis of Article 163(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following proposal: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia authorises the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of Bojan Starman, the Ambassador of France Ferri Horvat and Cyril Testen, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly, on the basis of the decisions taken by the Assembly, to prepare the final text of the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Školč.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u704	Thank you very much. I agree with this proposal, but I would ask my colleagues to inform us before they send out the budget for publication whether they hold what we think, given what we have now voted that the budget is inconsistent. Because what anyone would like to do to turn later on on the basis of explanations into the text of the budget, I do not think it is possible. If the budget is uncoordinated, it is a serious matter and it will be most likely, I can easily imagine that it is necessary to repeat the complex process of adopting the budget. I think, Mr President, that this is a very important question and a very important debate, these magnetograms and these papers we will all get, and allow us to be on these 80,000 euros, you will certainly say that this visa of all the money is very little, until the end is accurate. It is known how the budget must be drawn up on the revenue and expenditure side. When these things are not covered, only that the budget is not adopted can be determined. With this idea, let us accompany this working group to its work and consider your actions. The ministry, too, had every opportunity to fix it, but unfortunately, not knowledge.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u705	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u706	Thank you very much. It's a minor violation. Comrade Starman, come in. Tell him we're making a mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u707	Thank you. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 5. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the Draft Law on the Implementation of the Budget in the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009 as part of the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 14. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a decree on the annual real estate management plan for the country at a separate value of more than EUR 300,000 for the authorities of the state administration and the judicial authorities for 2008. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 2. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 60 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 5. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendment. In its opinion of 26 November 2007, the Legislative - Legal Service of the Assembly pointed out the need to harmonise the text of the proposed decision internally. As the motion for a decision due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the parent working body is not harmonised, the Government has prepared the harmonisation amendment you received on the bench. Does the representative of the government want a word on the harmonisation amendment? Do Members and Members want a word on the harmonisation amendment? Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u708	I would only ask if Minister Bajuk would talk about his work. I would like him to take over the share of the blame, given that he has deceived us in the National Assembly and that this is not carried over in the framework of all public finances to the only speaker by the ruling majority, Mr Zdenk Černač. Mr. Secretary, please explain. Tell us about 2008, 2009 and points 3 and 4. At least be so brave.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u709	Thank you. Anybody else want some? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 10. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a decree on an annual plan for the country's fixed assets of more than EUR 300,000 per individual value for the authorities of the state administration and for the justice authorities for 2008 as a whole. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 12. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 12.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - with the consideration of the Proposal for a decree on the country's annual real estate management plan of more than EUR 300,000 per individual value for the administration of state and judicial authorities for 2009. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, it has not been possible to table amendments at the meeting of the assembly, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, for 46, for 11. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - the consideration of the Proposal for a decree on the sales programme of state assets for 2008 and 2009. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amendment, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decree. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the decision inconsistent. Explanation on behalf of the groups of Members. I see two hands. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u710	Your Honors are here! How would the Government of the Republic of Slovenia inform us of non-conformity if, in the course of yesterday's debate, a government representative or government representatives did not want to participate. If they have not answered one of the questions raised. The questions were very simple and the following: why is the country selling water economies? I used the word plural. The government representative did not reply. On the other hand, we see that in the context of the potential linkage of electricity generation, there is still a degree of dependence on the State or, rather, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. None of the government's representatives were three, answered the basic question: Why are we selling water economies in the future? Another time. Why is half the successful companies in Trbovje or Zasavje sold? Also of the three representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia present, he did not respond by word or word, nor did he sign up for the sale of successful companies in that part of Slovenia, which unfortunately is also leading in a negative sense. That's unemployment. And for the third time. Ladies and gentlemen! By means of the act adopted today, you confirm the second phase of the privatisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor. As you probably know, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has, after three years, agreed on a rather transparent way of privatising New Credit Bank Maribor, at least 25%. The other 25% are currently very opaque, so we're talking about the work of institutional investors. And if you've been following the news today, you know that the Parastate Institute of Insurance Triglav has also decided to join institutional investors. What happens when the U.S.C.D. decides to do the same? But of course, you don't care. I would like to point out, however, that by confirming this decision, you are putting the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in your hands and in all the decisions that it will be out of the State Assembly from now on also having the balance, that is 25%, the New Credit Bank of Maribor. How to look for a strategic partner, who will it be, under what procedure, and whether these gentlemen will be near Borut Petk, which is somehow avoided by everyone in the National Assembly, and even more so within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And from this town, I don't think we should make fun of each other, gentlemen and lady, from this way of working. By this decree, you are now accepting all of this and many other things. But, unfortunately, you don't want to be rejected and treated like you're supposed to be selling real estate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u711	Thank you. Mr. Trophynic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u712	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. And don't mind me warning you that you didn't allow me to take advantage of the right to explain my vote under the Budget Implementation Act. However, as far as the sale programme is concerned, I must say that we will vote against it in the parliamentary group. And not only because there is no strategy to deal with this sale, but because we have warned you about the lack of consistency and illogicality between this document, and we have tabled an appropriate amendment, and the law that you have put into the procedure, about one of the laws on regionalism. This act sells financial shares in four regional development agencies. And in the Regionalism Act, you say you're transferring this property to future regions. If we could think back a little further on the first law on regional development and some strange amendment that has led to the creation of some agencies and how these agencies have come to state resources and how the state has become co-owner of these agencies, no responsible majority could accept it. Of course, it shows that something is not sincere. You probably don't mean to be honest with regionalism, but we still can't support this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u713	Thank you. Mr. Friday, in your personal name? Anyone else? Mr. Peche. Here you go, Mr. Friday, on your own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u714	Thank you, President. There are three reasons why I do not support this decision. First, and at the first, we will remind you of the consideration of the provincial legislation, where you are "stressing" those who are supposed to obtain property in the provinces by doing so to them with something that will no longer be available after this decree. Secondly, this decree covers the privatisation of Telekom, which began before this decision was adopted. And third time, Maribor's new KBM. The euphoria surrounding the sale of shares is over. We were cautious about all of us who wanted to talk about the bank's further sale, but today we can say that there are many fours and many dangers, and by this decision you are creating that these small taxpayers will be transferred around, because on the second part of the privatisation, there will obviously be a group of owners that is close to the government, which is close to now ruling, close to those who are shaping the policy of an important bank and unfortunately also close to the President of Bank Kovacic, who says that he does not need a passionate partner. All these are the reasons why I do not attach myself to this decision, so I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u715	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u716	Bell, Leo, Petrol, Friday, ladies and gentlemen, this is the danger of today. I don't mean you, Mr. Miro Friday. Neither do you. That's the danger of today. And the things you're doing in that decree today, you're giving the condition that finally customerism, the corruption that comes from the cabinet of the President of the Government, will not grow in all of its barbecues, is not yet in the last three years. I believe you know people around you, but don't close your eyes. It's state property. Don't let it happen, but be so brave if Minister Bajuk doesn't have it so that he can finally get up, I know he knows things. But you all keep your eyes closed. You're just confirming things that, at some declaration level, you're saying are wrong and should not be happening in our country or society. But by pressing "yes" for this kind of decree and similar decrees, gentlemen, you allow customerism and corruption. All these stories that are now taking place in the newspaper around the Laško Brewery are "passengers". It's a dirty laundry now. Today and here are the stories that are happening, and you're allowing them.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-28-SDZ4-Izredna-31.ana.u717	Thank you. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 14. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 30th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Good night!
