ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please take your seats. I begin the continuation of the 27th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Anton Anderlič, Bogdan Barovic, only Bevk from 2 p.m. on, mag. Milan M. Cwickl, Ljubo Germič, Franc [[Ferry]] Horvat, Victory Jelinčič noble, Miran Jerič, Jožef Jerovšek, Anton Kokalj, Bojan Kontič, Maria Possonec, Breda Pecan from 12.00 p.m. on, Miran Potrč and Aloyz Sok. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Third Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Entitlements. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for further explanation. Here you are, Mrs Branka Tome, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act should be amended and supplemented in particular because the current Cooperatives Act 1992 is already very outdated and does not regulate the statusal transformations of cooperatives and the transformation of other legal persons into cooperatives. The current cooperative law entered into force in spring 1992. It was amended and supplemented only once, in 1993, in order to harmonise chapter 10 on the ownership and return of cooperative property with the Property Transformation Act and the National Assembly adopted a mandatory interpretation of two articles in this chapter. Since then, since then, this has been the case in the past 14 years, there have been a number of amendments and additions to the basic laws governing the status law, the participation of workers in management, enforcement settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation, the Court Register, financial transactions, accounting and auditing, which also directly or indirectly interfere with the Cooperatives Act. The most extensive amendments were introduced by the Company Act, which entered into force one year and four months after the entry into force of the Cooperatives Act and its subsequent amendments and additions. Your Honor! The non-compliance of the Cooperation Act with the Company Act creates a legal void in practice, despite the general reference to the meaningful application of the Business Act. These gaps are shown by the fact that the provisions of the Companies Act or the Companies Act are, in many cases, a reasonable non-use of the Cooperatives Act, in particular where they relate to a specific legal and organisational form of a company which we do not know about cooperatives, and because of certain specificities of cooperatives that do not apply to companies or companies. This is a series of changes that follow more precisely and meaningfully the changes in company law in other areas, in the area of companies, the participation of workers in management, forced settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation, financial management, accounting and auditing. The main changes are the solutions set out in the Company Act. The issues of the directory of members, business books and the annual report are further regulated following the example of the Company Act. A new chapter on the status of the transformation of cooperatives, on the transformation of other persons into cooperatives and on mutual audit and on the new developments in the supervision of the implementation of the law and criminal provisions is added to the law. The law makes sense of the solutions contained in the rules of the European Union. Otherwise, they're taking care of it. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] companies in general, namely eight Directives and four Regulations. [[...]] The government proposes that the amendment of the law be adopted in order to comply with the legislation adopted in previous years. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u3	Thank you. On the proposal for a law in its entirety, I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr. Bojan Rugelj will present the position He is not present. [[...]] Mr. Janko Weber didn't either. Mr Aloise Sok Mr Marjan Drofenik will translate the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u4	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Members and Members, as well as all visitors at the gallery! I will give my position to the Slovenian People's Party until the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperation Act. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act was held at second reading in the National Assembly a year ago. Following this, he was removed from the agenda of the 17th meeting of the National Assembly at the proposal of the government coalition parties and to date the law has been pending in the procedure. If we recall, an amendment was adopted at the parental committee at second reading, which provided that cooperatives were entitled to state aid under the same conditions as companies which are legal entities. At the meeting of the National Assembly, this text was deleted again. In addition to others, such a solution was later opposed by the Slovenian Agricultural and Economy Chamber, which notes that it means to exclude cooperatives from State aid by creating an unequal position of cooperatives compared with other economic operators in the Slovenian space. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we asked the former Minister and, of course, the new Minister of Agriculture to deal with the issue of state aid to the cooperatives. In this regard, the view was initially expressed that this issue would be addressed by the Novel of the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in difficulty, since the area of State aid to cooperatives would not be systematically included in the Cooperatives Act. While adopting the Law on aid to companies in difficulty, this issue was not resolved again. For this reason, we have again sought to resolve this issue, either in the Cooperatives Act or in a specific law that would address only the area of state aid to cooperatives. Today in the third reading of the law, among others, an amendment has been tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, which stipulates that they are cooperatives, and I quote: "Eligible for State aid." We support the proposed amendment of the Cooperatives Act in the parliamentary group, but we expect the amendment to be adopted today. In our view, this is extremely important and we have been working for it in the SLS Group all the time. Of course, we must also point out that we expect the competent minister to be ready soon to make the necessary amendments to the Agriculture Act, which will enable the implementation of state aid to the cooperatives. Of course, State aid to economic operators needs to be communicated to Brussels, as state aid is not in itself allowed if there are no particularly well-founded arguments and reasons justifying the intervention of the State in the field of market and competition. In the European Union, cooperatives are largely equated with companies; in so doing, it should be noted that State aid is a means of purpose which is precisely defined and clear and that their operation cannot, in principle, depend on the legal form of an organisation that carries out an activity. Therefore, in our opinion, there is no reason why cooperatives in this area would not be equivalent to other economic operators in Slovenia. When we talk about cooperatives, we think mainly of agricultural cooperatives, which are also the dominant form of cooperatives in our country. In our view, the role of these cooperatives is extremely important and they need to be given the same treatment as other economic operators. As it is said, in the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposed law, including the amendments tabled, with the amendment on State aid to cooperatives crucial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u5	Thank you. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, the honourable ones present. The applicable Cooperatives Act was adopted in 1992, amended only once in 1993. I agree with that part of the government's representative who says that the law needed to be changed. However, I cannot agree with the part where you said that this law needed to be changed from before. The second reading of this law was carried out by this National Assembly in May 2006, one year ago. Delays, why one year to the third treatment, from the first to the second, are only known to you as to how such a necessity is after the amendment of the law, is usually next month, not next year. I also believe that the GDD has played a role here, but, as you know, the distinguished present, as you know, we are changing as we are probably changing some personal things at home, it is said every month. As far as the amendments are concerned, I think that the apple of the dispute in the second treatment of this law was state aid, but don't tell me that it took you in the government a year to find out that the law, unless it provided State aid to cooperatives, would not be adopted or confirmed. But it took you a year to draft an amendment like today on our dishes. And of course, all those who know the operation of cooperatives have read the material sent to us by the Association of Cooperatives, but we cannot oppose it, so we will also support this amendment in the Slovenian National Party and we will not oppose the law. The performance by the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also stated that the law must be confirmed today because of legal voids. And here's my second question again. The government, as a bill-maker, has allowed these legal voids for one year. And another question that then arises to me is why can legal voids be allowed or why did the government allow it? What interest? I simply cannot believe it myself, nor do we believe in the Slovenian National Party that it took you one year to find that an amendment to this law will be necessary to allow state aid. You must have had some interest that this law simply did not occur during one year from the second to the third reading. But, as has already been said, as long as this is a coalition amendment, this amendment will be confirmed that cooperatives are eligible for state aid, so we will not oppose the proposal of the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! Let me briefly state the position of the DeSUS Group, which has been monitoring this event for quite a good time, and it may be somewhat unusual that we have now come up with amendments after this long time of adoption or proposed legislation, which have been at least partially controversial all the time. The long way to the adoption of this law may not have been fully exploited or exploited to the extent that it required sustainability in relation to political will and some political solidarity within coalition groups so that the amendment could be prepared at all. I am talking about the amendment to Article 1 which speaks of State aid to cooperatives. We still have some dilemmas about this, because some views of the Law-Legal Service are not taken into account in relation to the proposed law. It should also be said that some of the views of the Ministry of Economy have not been taken into account, but not only the position of the Minister for Agriculture himself, who have always had doubts as to whether this possibility of aid should be implemented in this way and in this law for cooperatives. To the last, this was questionable, and to the last, this was also rejected to some extent as a form that was not appropriate. We consider that the law is necessary, however, because it eliminates certain weaknesses with regard to corporate law in relation to the status provisions relating to cooperatives, but it is not necessary to adopt all those post-festums of the day provisions that have not yet been transposed into law. We're just thinking of paragraphs 1 and 26. In Article 1, it is more or less clear that in the DeSUS Group, we are withdrawing support for the amendment and expressing our concerns, reservations, because we know that the Law on the Financial Operation of Enterprises is holding back that it was a day, as we say in the freezing of the Constitutional Court, and that this is directly linked. We believe that these solutions regarding the removal of cooperatives, which is why they go, are not well arranged. However, we will not reject the law's will because we have mentioned that some of the needs are acute, including coordination with the euro, including coordination with the Law on Offences and certain other laws that have been passed in the meantime, but we will not support those amendments that we consider to have been brought into law in relation to the political will of the side doors in terms of amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u9	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Well welcomed, Madam Secretary with a co-worker, Members and Members and, of course, visitors to the Tribunal. In essence, I will say the position of New Slovenia towards this law and the amendment, because we have in fact forgotten to report in time instead of colleague Sok. In Novi Slovenija, we have already supported this law in the working body of the mother and last year in the National Assembly, as well as the amendment to article 1 of the law. By repeating this attitude or action today, because it is not basically a law and nothing has changed since last year. In Novi Slovenija we are aware of the importance played by the cooperative, especially in the area of agriculture in its history, we also know why they were established and what Krek was working for, but it is true that in the past the cooperatives have also been born many times, especially in the area of social aspects, assistance to members, and this has probably also led to a fall in trust in the partnership. With us, the cooperatives law has been in force since 1992, and since then there have been aspirations to change the law itself. In the past, cooperatives have also acquired a lot of assets, and many have also mismanaged them, sold them off, and many have embellished them and are operating in this way today. The law, which we discussed last year in the National Assembly, wants to update the collection of members' data and the management of members' holders, modernise the provision of members' rights to information on the functioning of the cooperative, which is very important and urgent for the members themselves. This law also introduces accounting standards under the Company Act, solves the issue of auditing in accordance with new auditing standards, regulates the status of the transformation of cooperatives and coordinates certain provisions with the Offences Act. In the law itself, there were not many amendments or comments made by the responsible callers, nor were the applicants submitted last year, but it is true that the most words and probably also a one-year shift due to the amendment adopted on the working body to Article 1, namely that cooperatives have been excused for aid, to state aid if they are in trouble and we have somehow confirmed this amendment also because it is not possible to do so in another law, which would be more meaningful, in the State Aid Act. However, I believe that this will be regulated and regulated by a sub-legislative act, in whatever way any cooperative and other economic aid is justified for such aid. Nor do we support, in essence, State aid for any price, in particular those cooperatives that have calculated or have been wrong business decisions even in the sale of property and so on, but certainly if there is a specific situation, let's say in the field of agriculture, such as natural disasters, captures, spots, when, say, it has affected one of the fruit cooperatives or more when it has destroyed the entire crop that was intended to cool down in the refrigerators, but then it has not actually had a year to do something like that in that area, but in such cases it is certainly possible to find and justify such state aid if it is restructuring or otherwise. So that today we will re- back up the law as well as the amendment to Article 1 and also to Article 26 as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor. He's quitting. Yeah, there's quite a few missing. Mr. Drofenik, you have the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr Kramberger. [[He's quitting, too.]] There are no more applicants who would be present. You want it on behalf of the Ministry? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I thank you for your comments on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the cooperative law. I would like to answer some of the questions raised to the SLS Group. Amendments to the Agriculture Act are one of the priorities of the Ministry of Agriculture and are in preparation. We are also aware that all State aid must be notified in Brussels, and we will do so in accordance with the rules which oblige us to do so. Comments from the SNS Group. It is true that the second consideration of the proposal was in May 2006 and it has been almost a year since then, but it took time for the drafting of the bill, i.e. the amendment of the Company Act. In addition, a very difficult issue had to be reconciled, namely a suitable solution for State aid. The Dessus Group's emissary. The Legislative Service of the National Assembly forwarded comments; the Ministry of Agriculture responded accordingly. The Financial Business Act is mentioned in the draft law and is also applied mutatis mutandis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u13	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the articles and amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 25.4.2007. I warn all Members of Parliament that a non-vote is taking place today. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups of Members. I am opening applications for debate on Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. Check-in is on. There's no sign-in. I conclude the debate on this Article and the amendment. [[Back-up advertising.]] If there has been a technical error, please raise your hand who wishes to discuss Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. I apologize for these technical difficulties. Article 1 or the amendment to Article 1 speaks of cooperatives being eligible for State aid. Of course, it is in everyone's interest that cooperatives work very well, because it is not only about trying to play an important role within agriculture, so that, after all, agriculture can also get the status of the economic sector as such, and certainly cooperatives can do much to help do so. Of course, a whole series of questions are being raised here. We know, in fact, that companies within the European Union system have very much to do with what incentives or incentives they can draw and are considered to be aid for the development of the economy. In the area of agriculture, I believe that there is a very wide range of calls, and last but not least, the European Union's system is oriented so that far the most resources are allocated to agriculture and rural development. So that I think that more energy and understanding to draw additional resources should be invested in finding out whether true cooperatives cannot run for the European Union's bids, to acquire these funds and thus to eliminate this dilemma, which is obviously very, very burdensome for the Ministry of Economy, Agriculture or, in general, to say good cooperation between cooperatives, the economy and even between farmers themselves. So this is a very specific issue that I think is not cleared or our cooperatives can actually draw funds directly from the European Union, because I think it would be the most appropriate solution. If we go into this solution as set out in the amendment, I am afraid that some of the aid they may receive as cooperatives, including from our state aids, will get in trouble because any state aid would have to be included as aid to an economic society, which could lead to the fact that cooperatives are even less competitive than they can at the moment when it is found that they need additional aid. However, in order to play an important role in cooperatives, it is clear from everyday events, because one of the concrete cases, our only sugar factory in Ormož has also experienced such a fate because cooperatives as the owner of this factory have decided to sell their share to a foreigner, so cooperatives have somehow tried to respond to the challenge, to the strict capital ratio. The principle of cooperative action is certainly not just and only a capital ratio to a particular issue, but, as I said in the introduction, above all the attitude towards a comprehensive approach. Both rural development and market governance, which is still important if we want rural products to come to the shelves under appropriate conditions, at an appropriate price and not least that we can also talk about whether we can produce enough of our own food in Slovenia, that we do not need or that we are not dependent on others, one of the important issues is certainly one that should also be opened in this amendment. The fact is that Slovenia is going in a direction right now not to create enough of its own food for its own needs. This dependence on others is an extremely large and wide-ranging issue, which should be handled very well within the cooperative law, and also on the role that cooperatives should play. If we add this influence to the capital of cooperatives, which it also has in dairy houses and if we return to the problems of Ljubljana dairy for a moment, the obviously cooperative system also has a very strong impact on how the food processing industry will function in Slovenia. Very important questions. But if we look at how cooperatives as owners of these companies are organised or how they affect and how they contribute to the development of the individual company they co-owner with, of course, is a completely different issue. They perform and are able to decide as owners, of course, but any production would like an owner who has already entered the company to contribute with some of his capital or to bring fresh capital into the company with his work so that the company can develop a concrete programme or acquire an additional market. It's extremely small, but it's too small to be present right now in the cooperatives' operations. In particular, it seems to me that this issue is also an issue for those banks whose owners are also cooperatives. In fact, even banks, if there is no recapitalisation, if the interest of the owner does not arise, to engage in the fact that this bank status and the position of the bank is as high as possible, then there is also difficulty in servicing all the development incentives of the bank that we need and only because we are talking about this area, particularly in the agricultural field. I think that the Land Bank is certainly one of those who has an open question about what the role of cooperatives is in this bank if, as the owner, it does not help to increase the efficiency of the bank's operation, and also that there are new visions and ideas on how to actually take this segment to an even higher level of operation than it is at the moment. It seems to me that this amendment, and this solution, is only to write down in the Cooperatives Act the text that cooperatives are excused for state aid, is, as it all appears, fulfilled by a desire that this is enshrined in this law. The right legal basis, however, is not to give this in practice, nor will it give this law. A whole range of other rules and laws will have to be harmonised if we are to make this work. However, it seems to me that the problem is not so much whether cooperatives will really be able to run for the resources for those state aids that companies can run for today. It seems more difficult for me to try to speak honestly about whether the system of association in Slovenia achieves those results that have been expected or has the cooperative system justified this role, which was also entrusted to them when they received an extremely large amount of capital, which could then also have become owners in many companies and, finally, whether this is not enough of a starting point for them to find and design some more coordinated solutions, but not such a narrow solution, which in fact will not have any significant effects in this law, but will, as I have said, satisfy someone that it is enshrined in the law, and everything else remains open. So that there is indeed some great need for this amendment to be adopted, I certainly do not, and I also think that even administrative-systemically it is better that this amendment is not adopted at all, and that the remaining questions that I have opened will be clarified and we will probably be able to get an answer in a very short time then to what kind of cooperatives we have and what cooperatives we want in the future. This amendment will not give that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u15	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Rugelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I think that this amendment is to Article 1 which speaks of cooperatives being excused for state aid being in place. This amendment was drafted by a coalition, of course in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy and also for agriculture. But it can't be more detailed in this law, it can't be any more detailed criteria. This will be more clearly defined in the Agricultural Law, which is in preparation. So I think this is a very positive thing for our agriculture as well. For we need to know that, after all, cooperatives are many species, and I think it is right that this applies more to us as long as we solve this in the Agricultural Act, more to these cooperatives that are connected with agriculture. So this amendment, which is very short but clear, I think it's right that it's covered in this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u17	Thank you. No one seems to want to discuss it anymore. That is why the debate, yes, and Mr Rezman. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u18	Thank you very much. I just want to say that what I just heard probably doesn't hold because I have letters here signed by ministers who speak the opposite. So Minister Jarc agreed with the concerns raised by the Legislative and Legal Service and assessed that it was therefore not appropriate to record this in this law and in the context of the general provisions. He felt that this should be written if, in any other marriage, Minister Visjak, who I had even talked to in person yesterday, was also thinking about it and I know how we discussed it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u19	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 1. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against 9. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to this Article. I'm opening an application for discussion. I hope it works, watch and press the button of the one you want to discuss. Mr. Rezman is giving up. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 26. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. 43 Members and Members are present. I would ask for attention, we have been inconclusive in this vote. No one has left the hall, please. We're voting again. The second time, the vote is under way. There are 46 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against 1. (The vote was 42.)(against 1.) I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. I ask the Government to give its opinion on the harmonisation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. The Government notes that there has been non-compliance in accordance with Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The government is proposing a harmonisation amendment to Articles 24 and 25 of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u21	Given that the harmonisation amendment reproduces, I suggest we stop the meeting, get the amendments on the table and continue with the meeting 10 minutes to 11, that is at 10.50.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, we are continuing our meeting. You got the harmonisation amendments on the bench, and there was a typographical error. Let me warn you or ask that the representative of the government draw attention to the lapsus and yet we can proceed with the debate. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u23	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes the harmonisation amendment to Article 24 and the harmonisation amendment to Article 25. The harmonisation amendment to Article 24 reads as follows: "The amended Article 69 of the Law is amended in the first paragraph of the text from 200,000 to 2 million tolars and is replaced by the text '836 euro to 8,360 euro'." In the second paragraph, the text "100,000 tolls to a million tolars" is replaced by "418 euro to 4,100 euro". Explanation. On 29 May 2006, the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Offences Act, which provides in the transitional provision of Article 56 that the rules governing the offences to be applied after the introduction of the euro as a monetary unit of the Republic of Slovenia shall be laid down in euro. Article 17 sets out the ranges of fines and it is therefore necessary to comply with the amended provisions of the Offences Act. It is also not in line with the Law on the introduction of the euro that fines for offences are expressed in tolars and should therefore be expressed in euro. The harmonisation amendment to Article 25. In the draft amended Article 70 of the Act, in the first paragraph, the words "100,000 to 1 million tolars" are replaced by the words "836 euro to 8,360 euro". In the second and fourth paragraphs, the words "20,000 tolars to 200,000 tolars" are replaced by the words "83 to 836 euros". Mr President pointed out that there has been a lapsus in the text you have before you and read this sentence in the second paragraph, but this is paragraph 2 and paragraph 4. The values in both paragraphs shall be the same. In the third paragraph, the words "50,000 tolars up to 500,000 tolars" are replaced by the words "209 euro to 2,090 euro". The explanation is exactly the same as for the harmonisation amendment to Article 24. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u24	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on both amendments. We will, of course, vote on each individual. Anybody want to talk? No, then we turn to the vote first on the first amendment to the harmonisation amendment to Article 24. Please be careful we'll be concluding. We are voting on the first harmonisation amendment. There are 47 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. I am voting on the harmonisation amendment to Article 25, supplemented by, as was said, in the second sentence, where it correctly reads "in the second and fourth paragraphs". We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Ratification of the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Mr Andrej Šter, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the proposal for a law amending the Law on the ratification of the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, which was approved by the Committee of the National Assembly on Foreign Policy at its 25th session on 29 April 2007. After long-term coordination, the Government, in view of the comments made in writing or orally at the meeting of the Commission on Nationality and the Foreign Policy Committee, proposed that the draft law be considered in the form originally sent for consideration last autumn and also after a longer and extensive inter-sectoral consultation. Allow me to briefly summarise the reasons behind this change. After the Convention has been established, each State Party shall prepare periodic reports, assessed and reviewed by the Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe. After examining the report of Slovenia, the Committee of Experts invited our country to change its previous decision and to make a choice of the proposed options in certain articles, as envisaged, so that in certain paragraphs of certain articles, as envisaged, one of the options mentioned above will be decided. If you look at the text or when you look at the text, it is clearly defined where and in which articles this alternative is provided. Where such a choice is possible and necessary, any point so made available shall end with the word 'or'. The State therefore chooses one option, not cumulatively two or all of the proposed options, and this was wrongly done at the first round or the first decision to ratify this instrument. This is what the Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe has pointed out in several places in the above-mentioned periodic reports. In addition to this proposal, the Government, in order to respect the international legal obligations already assumed and to consider the proposal before the Foreign Policy Committee, also decided to include the appendix or paragraph I, first paragraph of Article 8. Thus, the Committee on Foreign Policy has also adopted this decision in the form of an amendment, a choice from the Charter, in our opinion and also in the opinion of the Members involved in the examination, reflects the actual situation, and it is particularly important to reiterate that the amendment of the law does not in any way alter the obligations of the State which it has under the Constitution and legislation at the legal level, nor in any respect strengthens or violates the rights of the national communities. The Government therefore considers that it has responded appropriately to the warnings and corrected the error made at the time of the 2000 ratification of the Charter and has, of course, also included and duly followed the recommendations of the Committee of Experts, which is the body that oversees the implementation of the European Charter, has corrected the choice in the manner envisaged and will ensure adequate protection for members of the national communities using regional or minority languages. In doing so, allow me another communication in view of the amendment tabled by the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities, which relates to Article 10 of this Charter. I would like to send a message that the Government agrees with the proposed amendment. I ask you to take this message into account in your further discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. Steer. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. I'd like to ask the vice president of the committee of mags. Janez Petty Officer, he's not here. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Lovtijar Bebler has the floor to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u27	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the process of adopting the Law amending the Law on the ratification of the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages, there have been some confusion and unanswered questions. First, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has pointed out the uncertainty as to whether, under the second paragraph of Article 3 of that European Charter, a State Party may at any time, after depositing its instrument of ratification, notify the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe that it also accepts other obligations arising from the provisions of any other instrument of that instrument which has not already been laid down in its instrument of ratification, or whether the State Party has a later option to re-select or amend the obligations already laid down in the instrument of ratification. Similar questions were also raised by both Members of the national communities, whether the negligently omitted point in Article 8(1) means the deprivation of the rights of national communities. The Government is now responsible that the supervisory authority or authorities which are supposed to be responsible for monitoring the implementation of the measures taken and the progress made in the introduction or development of regional or minority languages and for issuing periodic reports on their findings have not been established and are not hereby terminated. In this context, the new choice of obligations relating to Article 8 merely preserves the existing situation. In fact, by adopting this instrument of ratification, we will remedy the error we have found following the deposit of the instrument of ratification, namely that it has failed to comply with the provisions of the third part of the instrument or was omitted subparagraph (b) of Article 8(1) of the Charter. With regard to the amendment of the two Members of the National Communities to the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that it is acceptable and will be supported. In our view, however, it is not necessarily necessary, since a State Party can always apply at home higher standards than the minimum required by the European Charter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u28	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Group of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. I am opening an application for discussion on Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. Please log in, which one you want to discuss. Mr. Battelli, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Actually, I don't have much to add to what Mr. Šter has already said. This amendment does not in any way extend the obligation, but summarises what was already in the ratification in 2000 and is also fully in line with both Article 5 and Article 11 of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u30	Thank you. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Community Group to Article 1. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 46 votes against, none [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 1 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this Article. [[No, no, ……]] I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that, due to the amendments adopted, the bill would not have been harmonised. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we're moving on to 13. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - CONFIRMATION OF THE WORKING TEXTS OF THE LEGISLATION. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the Administrative Fees Act shall be confirmed. We're voting. 45 Members and Members are present. I guess we're inconclusive. May I have your attention, please? We're voting again. We'll vote next time. There are 45 present. Again, we're not concluding. That's why I'm adjourning the assembly and we'll resume in 10 minutes, that's 11:18.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, please take your seats. We'll move on to the third ballot. This is the third time we are moving to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially consolidated text of the Administrative Fees Act." We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 49 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially purified text of the Animal Protection Act." We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially consolidated text of the Law on the Construction of Buildings at Border crossings is confirmed." We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 48 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially consolidated text of the Rail Transport Act." We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 47 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the Law on Protection against Drones is confirmed." We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the officially purified text of that law has been confirmed. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially consolidated text of the Inspection Control Act." We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 47 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially consolidated text of the Law on the participation of workers in management." We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "A formal consolidated text of the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble is confirmed." We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that Act. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the second item of the agenda, this is to the third reading of the Draft Law on Election and Referendum Campaign. On Tuesday 24 April 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter of the law, that, on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted, the bill would not be harmonised, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. INSTRUMENT OF THE DAY’S ENDORITY, IT IS ON THE APPLICATION OF THE ACT ON THE DETERMINATION OF THE PARLAMENT OF THE INVESTIGATION FOR THE CONCERN OF THE POLITICAL RESPONSES OF THE PURPOSE OF THE PURPOSES OF THE PURPOSE OF PUBLIC FUNCTIONERS COOPERED IN THE PREPARATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE COMPETITION OF THE BUILDING TRADE 6X6 AUTHORITIES OF THE GOVERNMENTAL AIRMEN, HAVBIQUE 155 MILLIMETERS, THE FATAL PILITUS AND THE RENEWAL OF T55-S, FINANCED IN THE BASIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES OF THE DEFICIAL STRENGAL STRENGAL STRENGTH IN THE years 1994 TO 2007 On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a group of 35 Members and Members submitted a request for a parliamentary inquiry to the National Assembly, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. I give the floor to the representative of the applicants, Mr Jožet Tank, for an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u32	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Another commission of inquiry will be set up today to investigate arms trafficking. 35 Members contributed to their signature under the request to establish a parliamentary inquiry into certain arms purchases after 1994. This is a period for which we have adopted a special law on so-called core development programmes. In this proposal for a parliamentary inquiry, certain purchases are suspected to have not been made in accordance with the rules, in accordance with the principles of a good host, i.e. without the necessary austerity, rationality and economy. They have been carried out through the participation of unnecessary intermediaries and there is reasonable suspicion in these acquisitions that transactions have been politically negotiated, clientalistly carried out and therefore there is a reasonable suspicion of corruption in the current public function holders. Many of these are still performing important public functions. At the time of submission, the signatories proposed a rational solution, a merger or extension of the proposed requirement of the 32 Members with the proposals requested by the 35 Members. This would ensure a uniform and systematic approach to the investigation of arms trafficking, set up by an investigative commission, would have one professional support in the National Assembly and the opposition leadership of the parliamentary investigation. The proposal was certainly rational in all respects. The set-up Commission could review all the contested acquisitions and prepare a final report. However, as is the custom and characteristic of the LDS and SD binding, rationality does not suffer. They rejected the merger of the investigation requests, rejected the single approach, refused to prepare a joint report for all the findings to be drawn up in the joint investigation of transactions in both cases. But the opposition wanted to first review one, get its first piece and prepare an interim report. However, the contents of another requirement would be dealt with only if we investigated their work in time or if it were applied in that way. This would certainly not be the case in this mandate. If the reasons for determining the parliamentary investigation for the purchase of 8x8 armoured persons are for the procurement for which a public invitation to tender was made and the file for which the representatives of the Parliamentary Defence Committee have been allowed to be examined on several occasions, then there are still substantial reasons for determining the type of purchases for which no procurement procedures have been carried out. For some purchases there was only a high political visit in one of the Middle East countries and they had already made business. Of course, there is no denying the decision of a young country to arm itself to protect its borders. This decision was perfectly logical, since it was necessary to take care of the national security of the country after the independence of Slovenia when we became independent. We were alone. We were not included in any system of collective and solidarity defences of the country on the European and global stage and the times were turbulent. For our southern border, that's a little lower than Kumrovec, there was a bloodbath during the ethical Balkan war. The victim was a huge, highly volatile area, with very irregular interstate borders and the risk of widening the conflict was high. The weapon had little, the structure was inadequate and the weapon was more or less old. A large part of the arms problem was also due to previous political decisions. In the process of independence of Slovenia, the current summit of the former Slovenian career policy took a decision, unreasonable and never explained, on the disarmament of the Slovenian territorial defence. This meant that Slovenska TO could not reach its own weapons, that these weapons were held in its magazines by the Yugoslav People's Army of the time and that the Slovenian Territorial Defence could only be armed where the headquarters of the territorial defence were led by those who did not comply with the orders of the political summit and the Republic's headquarters. The territorial defence has acquired weapons and weapons solely because of the insubordination and skill of the local headquarters of territorial defence, and with this more or less light weapons we have carried out and protected our independence. However, due to circumstances and double situations in the neighbourhood, it would be necessary to provide weapons in order to ensure at least a minimum capacity to defend the country in the event of a new aggression against Slovenia. This is why the Basic Development Programmes Act has been adopted to provide the basis for updates and purchases of weapons in accordance with national doctrine and the expected linkage in NATO into a collective defence system. Unfortunately, the implementation of the Basic Development Programmes Act has always been extremely mysterious, linked to strange paths and decisions, many activities have been carried out, indicating that the procedures have been carried out very imprudently, in violation of the laws and objectives of the State. All the time, however, the purchases, more or less, were obviously involving persons who, by their function and status, did not have any legal and executive powers to cooperate and carry out such transactions. Control of activities, procedures, technical characteristics, financial arrangements, intermediaries and so on was completely prevented. That's why the purchases weren't rational. Of course, it is clear that during this period of accession to Euro-Atlantic connections, even in NATO, we have acquired an extremely clearly defined and identifiable target of the country, huge quantities of weapons that did not comply with NATO standards. Even the old man who was, it is only necessary to say that due to correctness, freshly dyed. The question is why we did this. At the time, politics had a fig in its pocket and with Euro-Atlantic connections did not seriously mean whether it was higher commercial objectives, on the basis of which there was a dangerous difference between real and invoiced prices. He's probably both. During the week, the government, with the cooperation of the Slovenian Army's chief commander, President Kučan, acquired 120 millimetres of mines in Israel. It immediately turned out that they are useless in our situation and that is why their processing followed, since in the picturesque Slovenian country we do not have enough desert sand, which would be the only suitable basis for the safe and prudent use of this weapon. It was certainly safer and cheaper to process the compensation mechanism of mortars than to transport imported desert sand behind them. This has certainly resulted in high additional costs, but the fees have not been reduced or recovered. All the burden of procurement and finishing fell on Slovenian taxpayers. The last custodian of public finances, Comrade Zwickl, did not train, nor did he move before, when he was a senior government official, nor did he react to the former, so-called Emperor of Parliament Anderlič, who is now disturbed by the slightest movement and changes in the military field. Otherwise, this is already a recognised standard of conduct for gentlemen who have moved to the opposition after the last elections and who have begun to suffer from severe amnesia. Suddenly, they forgot their entire creative history. Perhaps the Commission of Inquiry will find the reasons why they are for a mountainous Alpine country, which Slovenia is undoubtedly the most appropriate Israeli desert hawbice of a large calibre. Rumor has it that we bought used but fresh paint. These hoodies were also supplied with old ammunition, and the use of these weapons had serious consequences in this combination. There were tragic accidents, there were fatalities, and there were some injuries. It is quite possible that the investigation will find that the prices or costs of these purchases were exactly the same as if they were then buying new weapons and new ammunition. As a kind and ironic response of the political summit to all the irregularities and affairs surrounding procurement from the Middle East, the direct television integration of Israeli politics into the Misha broadcast was a very nice and friendly conversation with our former President. The special section of military procurement is Pilatus. How else can we explain why, on whose initiative and on the basis of what standards and justifications we have the most expensive aviation school composed of Pilatus training aircraft, on which several emergency weapons systems were subsequently deployed? That is why we have lost the general warranty of the manufacturer of these aircraft. Or, let's say, why did we go to the expensive reconstruction of the old Russian tanks T55, which have now remained in the barracks, or find specimens on the Poček range where the Slovenian Army uses them as targets for training. This makes it even easier to cover up the huge and unreasonable use of resources for non-quality reconstruction. Also, almost no one asks why the most expensive or prestigious Falcon, whose purchase was so urgently needed a few years ago, is passed by the Basic Development Programmes Act and does not carry out its basic tasks. Well, if I'm even more precise, it's not even performing a backup job, it's transporting wounded, which was why this purchase was then further justified. It is undeniable that in the case of falcon, we have used dedicated weapons to ensure the security of the country for a project which, due to the decisions of the former policy and signed long-term contracts, provides only commercial services abroad, and this aircraft has not arrived in Slovenia for a long time. One of the controversial cases is procurement in a selected factory in Slovenia, which was sold by the current political commitment of the Liberal Democracy and Social Democrats in a previously cold-blooded and extremely low manner, it is said that a very favourable price without proper procedures was sold to one of its political members and supporters and bought as a thank or as a reward or perhaps as a traveller or as a risk compensation was granted by a multi-annual multi-billion-dollar deal where the supplier had no need to care for the delivery deadlines and quality of the product; however, the price was never too low. Otherwise, the rag is supposed to provide an excellent opportunity for Slovenian knowledge and technology, an opportunity for many jobs in Koroška, a perspective for young experts and also an export perspective. However, few of this has been achieved - exports are not, and the product is still technologically weak. He's especially famous for the poor bodywork he's killing for no reason. The only thing that makes this project look good is a lot of annexes to contracts. These have so far accumulated 26. This merely confirms that this project is unlimited to the privileged manufacturer, by chance to the political ally of the LDS, SD, who was also allowed to receive financial injections in a very protective way and to resolve technologically outdated production. This merely reinforces the fact that it was an unfinished, unimaginable approach in which both the manufacturer and the contracting entity overestimated their abilities. Therefore, it is not uncommon to overstep the contractual value. There are, of course, many more examples of disputed purchases under the Basic Development Programmes Act, and of course not all of them are involved in the investigation. Of course, it was possible to update this law as soon as it was established that the Basic Development Programmes Act was lagging behind trends or no longer in line with current military standards, concepts or military doctrines. Any responsible policy would react and do so, as it is not logical that in such a long period of time, I do not know, more than ten years under the Basic Development Programmes Act would have changed nothing. This stiffness was possible only if business or military acquisitions controlled lobbyist groups with established relationships and connections, and if already at the start of the implementation of the Basic Development Programmes Act, most of the money was booked or even spent on clienteleistic links and acquisitions. In conclusion, in 1994-2004, the opposition did not have any opportunity to set up an investigative commission to investigate arms purchases, since it was never able to secure 30 signatures of Members during this period, as required by the Law to apply for parliamentary investigation. It's just a key condition. And then the coalition wouldn't give it, and it wouldn't give any signatures. At best, we could only collect 23 signatures. The current opposition, in particular the Liberal Democracy and Social Democrats, constantly voice doubts about any decision taken by the Government, any activity by the Government and the coalition, and so also happens in the area of purchases or current purchases of military equipment. By doing so, by my logic of preventive action, they want to blur their role and responsibility for acquisitions in years when serious parliamentary supervision could not be established over their operation or the functioning of their governments. The establishment of this commission of inquiry, these parliamentary investigations, is an opportunity to confirm or reject suspicions of involvement of public officials in the procurement of military equipment at issue, as proposed in the request for a parliamentary inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u33	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u34	It's a beautiful pre-festive day for everyone in this room. In the New Slovenia Group, we regret the fact that the opposition has not agreed to extend the investigation into the proposed investigation commission for the purchase of 8x8 armoured personnel to all acquisitions within the Ministry of Defence funded under the basic development programmes of the defence forces of the Republic of Slovenia in 1994-2007. We estimate that it would be truly reasonable and cost-effective for such an investigation to be carried out in a comprehensive manner with one committee. Well, there was no hearing from the opposition for such a commission. It is no wonder, therefore, that the Group of Members has proposed the parliamentary inquiry that we are talking about today. So today I can only repeat what I said in the previous session. The establishment of the Commission is the constitutional, legal and business rights of the Group of Members. And we do not oppose this in the New Slovenia Group. It is true, however, that we are wondering what results this commission will bring, which will only have a year and a half to do. And that is at a time when we will be chairing the European Union. In the New Slovenia Group, we are also wondering whether it is realistic to expect the relevant results of the work of this Commission, since all the previous parliamentary investigative commission throughout the period of Slovenia alone have not produced the desired results. And this commission, which had more time available for its operation. In New Slovenia, however, we advocate that all businesses are conducted legally, transparently and rationally. All irregularities and violations, however, must be prosecuted and sanctioned. Let me conclude that the New Slovenia Group does not oppose the Commission of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u36	Mr. President, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues. I'll try to be brief. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, as in the New Slovenia Group, we regret that there was no agreement between one and the other proposed commission or one order adopted by the National Assembly. We have actually tried to accept the challenge and we have also wanted Members of the parliamentary group to see what is happening and what is happening with regard to procurement or these, if I may say so, arms affairs. We were surprised that he was interpreting the media and citing press conferences to someone who wasn't even in coordination. I have to say clearly and loudly behind this stage or behind this counter that I was alone in the last coordination and by the first appointed commission was colleague Aurelio Juri and not the one who was then at the press conference and denied what we were talking there or putting me personally on a lie. We, when the first proposal came to order an investigation by opposition Members, did not object and we also supported it, regardless of the fact that some of the previous days have read our minds and found that we will not be able to determine the investigation, and even less that it will be led by a colleague who was then elected or appointed. The second thing I would like to say on this occasion, and again as my predecessors, is that if the joint committee, as the coalition had suggested, were to actually do an investigation of 8x8 and, as they said in their proposal, found that the people who had participated in the previous years were involved in the investigation, but that further questions regarding 6x6 might be raised, the hoods and all that, but it was said no, I would have made an interim report, and then, if there was still time, we would continue with the possible investigation. And there is a coalition or we are Members, who we have said no to this coordination. To conclude, most members of the parliamentary group support the commission of a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions involved in the preparation and execution of purchases of all those types of weapons, which are listed and also to establish the suspicion of the responsibility of the holders of public functions to disarm the former territorial defence, we are following this, in fact, what the opposition parliamentary investigation has also said was to be determined from 1991-1993, the so-called arms affair. And also in the parliamentary group, like a colleague who represented the position of New Slovenia, we estimate that if the Joint Commission could come to some conclusions, and so could the two committees, I think that we will be burdening only the people who would have much more useful or necessary to work, either us Members or the people who will have to serve us in the preparation of the documentation. I think that, as in the entire parliamentary democracy of this National Assembly, not one commission has reached the final report to be considered and adopted by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the views of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u38	Your Honors are here! One of the speakers in front of me said that we would be burdening people with two parliamentary investigative commissions. I don't think it's that important. What is more important is that the National Assembly, with two parliamentary commissions, will primarily evaluate the work of one and the work of the other. Of course, if conclusions are reached, no one in this country will take it seriously. However, the fact is that the moment of two investigative commissions proves that these investigative commissions are not taking seriously substantively, nor are we. Long ago, I believed that parliamentary investigative commissions were the tools of the opposition. Thus, through the parliamentary investigative commissions, that group of people within the National Assembly, which does not constitute a government that does not have executive power, can use this instrument to get to the bottom of the matter. I never believed that there could be so much political interference that it was ruled by itself, or that the ruling parties themselves were setting up parliamentary investigative commissions. I personally don't think that's right. At the National Party, we don't think that's right. But the fact is that this has happened not many times, but in this mandate this has already happened to us. When one parliamentary commission of inquiry is asked to be evaluated in the field of economy, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be evaluated in such a way as to include the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will establish its commission through Members. And the same is happening now in connection with the events at the Ministry of Defence. The first point I would like to stress is that I believe that none of the main actors in this National Assembly seriously believes in any parliamentary investigation into weapons or in the Ministry of Defence's home work. That it's all going in the same direction that follows only one goal. This is, of course, a flood, inflation of various information that will fill the daily newspapers that will fill this booth and the various rooms of the National Assembly on the working bodies, so that the matter will not come to an end. The next funny fact that is taking place at this time is the moment, that is, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members and Members, the fact is that our mandate has already been firmly overtaken by the second half. From this title comes the most important, not only is the optimist the one who believes that the Commission established today can resolve the events from 1994 until 2007. The practice in the National Assembly, whether this mandate, the previous term or previous mandates, has shown that unfortunately the Commission of Inquiry has not been successful. For one thing, they were, why - because they were running out of time, so they could not conclude. Secondly, because the executive branch of the authorities, namely the Government and the public administration or the public administration, did not provide them with the information requested by the Commissions of Inquiry within the framework of the National Assembly, and they made no effort from month to month per year, of course there was no effect. But if we look at and draw a parallel between the events of the previous mandate and this mandate we can say with certainty at least one, one parliamentary investigative commission has been established, never two. Never has the opposition and ruling parties set up two or more parliamentary commissions for the same matter or related matters. And the paradox that is taking place within this National Assembly of this mandate is, and if I release an investigative commission from the field of economy, which we have tried to bring together to this National Assembly, then two committees, at the end of three commissions and once again one commission, to set up, and I will touch myself only, that is, the first investigative commission in connection with the arms and today's investigative commission. In previous presentations, I think that the previous meeting, the 8x8 Commission of Inquiry, has spoken words by opposition Members, as today the same words have been spoken by ruling Members or Members, who make up the majority of the members of this Assembly. And then what's the difference? The difference is you didn't want one or the other to have a single commission of inquiry. Everyone was trying to investigate the desired subject matter of investigation, so everyone determined it by yearbooks and the subject matter of the investigation. Because they knew that if there were only one commission that had, of course, a strictly defined subject matter of investigation, there might even be something. I have never claimed, and of course I will never claim to be state affairs, whether they are public procurement, at home, abroad, in the field of defence or from any other area of clean business. I don't believe any of us can claim that. Wherever we have lobbyists connected, wherever we have intermediaries, these will, of course, obtain financial resources and other benefits from this title. The question, of course, is morale or rather the height to which you, third parties, lobbyists who have performed and before and perform today, I believe in the same amount, of course, to where they themselves are rich. But from the act on the determination of the parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the public function holders who have participated, I speak in the past in the preparation and implementation of the purchase of light armoured vehicles 6 x 6, government aircraft, hawbic 155 mm, fire management system, Pilatus aircraft and the renewal of T55-S tanks financed under the basic development programmes of the defence forces of the Republic of Slovenia in 1994-2007, due to the suspicion that the transactions were politically agreed. But it is only possible that a naive question on my part, if we all know by chance, will not be, but that it is quite by chance within this committee that a political official in 1994, who is nowhere else, is doing friendly work. Then what do we do? In terms of content, apart from, of course, large political pamphlets, there will be nothing in this title, but, of course, big articles in newspapers, in those who have subordinated newspapers, it will be so written in those who have subordinated other newspapers. I believe that there will be a large picture of the President, or the first to be signed at the request of the Commission of Inquiry, Mr Tank, in the course of the evening and work. And I believe there'll be a big picture in the diary where my colleague Squeakl will be on. We know that today. And why are we bluffing from this title to each other, at least in my opinion? And here I agree with the speaker in front of me who has highlighted that burden of people or ourselves, that is, the members of the commission, which is not important. Let it be the burden of Members who are, in the final stage, some for one investigator, the other for the other, the third for both, but the burden of all those people who are employed in the National Assembly, given that we know the effect and know the result of both commissions of inquiry. According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, which was exposed at the time of the first meeting, forgive the term, the "stress" of Members and Members of the then Single Liberal Democracy, today part of which went into the SD Group's framework, about the promised cooperation - and there we lost confidence in these people who spoke about the subject of the investigation 14 days ago, about cosigning to the commission of inquiry. But, of course, because then the gentlemen who once made up a great liberal democracy turned their words, broke their words or ate them, whatever you want, we didn't participate in the National Party or then in the appointment of the chairman of this commission, because we simply lost confidence and because we saw where, and I will use it. [[...]] [[background advertising]] Taco's dog begs. This is not about finding the truth, not in this case, so the case that we have before us today, for 1994, not in the case of an investigation committee for armored 8 x 8 before the time. According to our assessment, and if I refer here to yesterday's question raised by the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, the National Assembly is making a major mistake. He is making a mistake mainly because, for the first time - following the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, when he tries to ask the National Assembly for a non-aggression pact, and for the second time - we are also imposing things on ourselves that each of us, I stress, knows once again that we will not be able to save them. We are neglecting what our basic, constitutional task, not justice, is that the areas which, within our country, in the fields of social activities, social activities or economics, are resolved in some transparent, qualitative way, not in terms of the satisfaction of Mr Janez Janš or anyone within the framework of the National Assembly, but in terms of the satisfaction of citizens and citizens. The National Assembly has the opportunity once a month to meet with an extensive debate, for the first time on health issues, secondly social issues, privatisation issues, corruption issues, money laundering, customerism and similar things. But then none of the ruling Members will ever support the idea of an expanded debate, a debate that would take place today and here at a time and through which, I would stress, if it were their will, they could guide the area forward. And there is always an argument - The National Assembly is too busy, the National Assembly is overloaded, Members are overburdened, Members are overburdened and there are no debates from this title to confirm or defend our or any request made by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia to every Member, that is to say, to carry out its function. As soon as we lose a month, two, three, four in the area of the pre-known results of the parliamentary investigation, there is no longer one more argument. I hope to say that the subject of this parliamentary inquiry is, of course, purely political speculation or a political response to the issues that the first parliamentary inquiry will indicate and expose to the failure of this Government, in short, an answer will be given to one of them to say, "Yes, now you have bought these wrongly, under this and this intermediary," the response by the ruling parties will be: "You have done this in the previous mandate, not in area 8 times 8 but 6 times 6" and similar things. The second thing I would like to point out is exactly what's going on and I don't think it's right, so that someone is hoping to use those weapons that are in all the textbooks to speak in the field of constitutional law, the legislative procedure or any of the aforementioned materials, the opposition's exclusive weapons, that is, the parliamentary investigation. Why a parliamentary investigation? Parliamentary investigation is solely for one moment - because the opposition has no other instrument or other tool to identify or point out, in addition to regular work at the meetings of the National Assembly, the suspicions of corruption, clientism, money laundering and all this, a parliamentary investigation is intended for this purpose. The parliamentary investigation has never been and in no normal democracy must be or cannot be the tool of the ruling parties, because the ruling parties have 100 and 1 other instruments in hand, which can take place at a time, only if it were willing to do so. And now we come to that basic question of whether it's willful. It's not the truth. In my opinion, it's just the will to where the ball is going to go and who's going to black out the media and what it's going to be like who's now being tarnished back to someone else. Unfortunately, no solution will be found in this title. And from the same title, we did not participate in the vote on the President of the Commission. As we estimate that we are increasingly losing contact with reality, with the real problems of our society and are increasingly deepening or sinking into those imaginary problems that harm or benefit exclusively individual political actors. And that would make sense, in my opinion, to just look at ourselves because we're following this game. Like sheep, we follow this game. Yesterday, I think yesterday, the National Assembly had the opportunity to vote on a few general debates between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and between the opposition and the opposition Members. I think that the whole spectrum of topics which present the current problem of Slovenia and which pose a potential future threat to our country. No proposal, ladies and gentlemen, has been adopted. In a given situation, I cannot recall a single proposal that would not only be adopted in this mandate at yesterday's meeting, so since 2004, an expanded debate has been adopted. Maybe there was one or two, but I don't remember him. And that is the damage that we do to ourselves because we follow those, all together, the main actors or those who consider themselves the main political actors to be attributed to that denominator or the content of negativity. It's political controversy. And in my opinion, both investigative committees are subject to political controversy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The DeSUS Group will monitor the work of both Commissions and, as far as it can, also actively participate in the work of these Commissions. Of course, the question is why two committees and why it is opposition and why it is coalition in place. But there seems to be answers to that, too. First time. Two committees were simply not accepted because the offer to have only one functioning was not accepted. And since the subject of both investigation groups is different, only the truth in one part, in the part the opposition intended, would be revealed. And a second time. If anyone wonders, why does the committee have or will lead a coalition? Because otherwise, the part the opposition does not want to cover would not be covered. And the coalition is investigating, wanting to investigate what was done during the period when it was not a ruling coalition. So with the same right, it has the opportunity to demand this, as the opposition does, only deposits change at different times. However, the content is identical rights. In the DeSUS Group, we do not know, as we have heard a few times today, what someone has done. If we knew that in the future, then there would be no need for investigative commissions to appoint and investigate anything, save time, material, financial and other obligations would be smaller and would be engaged in some pointless business. However, since the law says so, read article 1 and you will see in the law that there is no record that only the opposition can, for example, propose an investigative group, so it is by law that it is investigated to determine the facts and only after we figure out what the actual situation is, what was really going on, then we will only assess these facts, and it is also written in the law. And then, when we assess it, these evaluations will be the subject of debate in the National Assembly and the subject of political sequences. And let me remind you that the law also states that investigative commissions are appointed to investigate a particular issue with a view not only to politically blazing [[?]] or sanctioning someone, but also because they can determine whether it is possible under the current legislation governing this area, what is wrong, what is wrong, what is weak and, on this basis, therefore, on the basis of such findings, a new amended legislation is proposed. This is also stated in Article 1 of the Law, which speaks of the area we are dealing with now. What are the investigative commissions with which they will be motivated, today it has been heard that they will work politically, yes, of course, we are not a judiciary, we are by definition, the National Assembly is by definition a political body, a commission that will be appointed by the definition of a political body, is being investigated by political people, a public function holder, is investigating their possible political responsibility, and everything else is really an attempt to mislead the party, in some way, or that the one who may have been a temporary later candidate would try to blacken out if he is political, no, we were not right, we are looking for objective truth, everything else that is not in line with this, but political, of course, is politically understood as being something that is bad. The political motives, the political composition, the political way of work will be the only thing to be afraid of, is that this way of work is too hectic to be too hot to be looking for the real truth, but to be focused primarily on how it is possible for someone to impose the burden they should bear, even if it is not necessary. We in the DeSUS Group, therefore, want to contribute, if we can, to contribute to the "sons ira et studio", without overwhelming and without overwhelming to explore not to be accused in advance, but to examine first and also to determine what else needs to be done. We hope that the commission that will be set up for this case will be called 6x6, if the first one is 8x8, will not feel the need to preach to the public that he intends to work by law or by procedure. That should be self-inflicted. This may not only be self-evident for those who have not been accustomed to doing so. But we will remain in respect for both the law and the rules of procedure and for political consistency to be determined or imposed in the end, after the actual facts have actually been investigated. So, this is how the DeSUS Group thinks to function and in this respect supports both committees that are absolutely in the correlation and it would be funny if one of the two could even fall out.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Robert Hrovat will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Coalition have already proposed that the tasks of this Commission should be extended to the purchases of arms purchased during the reign of the Liberal Democracy and Social Democrats, at the time of the demand of the current opposition for the establishment of a special investigative commission on arms purchases. There is a reasonable suspicion that there has been customerism and corruption in arms purchases from 1994 to 2003. Some purchases of weapons by then ruling parties were completely untransparent, unjustifiable, and even, according to our estimates, harmful to the country. If the current opposition were with us now within the framework of a single commission of inquiry, after a glance, they would also find a common language at the time of the rule of the political left. Without needless waste of time and resources, we could dismiss or confirm the suspicion of the then illegal operation of the Liberal Democracy and the Social Democrats. However, since the current opposition did not agree with this, it is perfectly self-evident and logical that our suspicion of illegal and harmful arms purchases by the political left during their rule has increased to the point where something needs to be done. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we therefore want to get to the bottom of this and propose the establishment of a special investigative commission that will scrutinise the purchases and procedures of arms purchases between 1994 and 2003 and reject or confirm our suspicions. Doubts, in particular in terms of the opacity of the purchases at the time, doubt that the basic principles of public finances management are not respected. There are doubts as to the correctness of the procedures and the award of orders at the time, as well as the involvement of public function holders in the selection and execution of purchases. However, there is a possibility, at least in the light of the current opposition's crackdown, that there will be more to this than they would like and would expose their potential corruption and clienteleism in previous mandates. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose to check for purchases at that time, such as purchases of light wheel vehicles 6 x 6, government aircraft, Havbice, fire management system, Pilatus and the renewal of T55 tanks, i.e. purchases financed under the basic development programmes of the defence forces of the Republic of Slovenia. In the previous term, as the opposition at the time, we have always pointed out the irregularities, the real problems in the Slovenian Army, but no proposal for a decision has been voted on, since the LDS and SD system "valier" were functioning when there was no important power of argument, as they relied on their argument of power or majority. The individual agenda items at the previous sessions were marked "secret" or "military secret" and were prevented from becoming known to the public. There were many irregularities at the time, but unfortunately the mechanisms at the time were not allowed to prove this in public. So far, the speakers have discussed in general about the Commission of Inquiry and let me give some concrete information on the purchases of weapons, which suggests the suspicion of the illegal operation of the Liberal Democracy and the Slovenian Democrats during their reign. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that non-transparent purchases where competition is excluded mean simultaneously excluding the possibility of achieving a lower price and thus reducing purchase costs. Such purchases place the selected sellers in a privileged position and enable them to sell at a higher price than they could achieve on the market. In the case of the project, the light-wheeled armoured vehicle 6 x 6 was signed for the entire implementation of the project with 26 contracts and annexes to the contracts. These included changes and additions to technical and commercial conditions. The price for the vehicle in the first contract was 30% lower than the price of the vehicles set out in the contracts signed in 2004. The contract for the purchase of a government aircraft was signed despite the fact that such an aircraft was not included in the plans for the equipping of the Slovenian Army. The money was spent on funds for the implementation of the basic development programmes, although the use of the aircraft for military purposes has never been provided, nor has it increased the security of the State. Several contracts have been signed in order to update the T55 tanks, which in fact has never been braked to the intended extent, demonstrating the non-transparentness of the planning and use of funds. The usable value of up-to-date tanks is also questionable as they are excluded from operational use. The Habic project and the ACCS project were launched in 1995. The project was not implemented in an integrated and transparent manner, as several contracts have been re-signed to implement an effective and functional system. Several management systems have also been purchased as needed by the Slovenian Armed Forces. When buying Pilatus's planes, it's interesting that part of the planes were bought as new and part of the purchase of the used ones, which is said to be at least very suspicious not to say any more specific things, words. Therefore, it is reasonable to believe that the then public function holders, as we know from the current LDS and SD, were politically negotiating for these transactions, which were more than clearly conducted intransparency and were uneconomically, and that corruption and clienteleism were present. It is therefore necessary for our country and for citizens and citizens to determine how tax money has been spent. It is necessary to determine the interest and the relationship or related transactions were in the background of the purchase. It is necessary to verify, prove or object to the suspicion of a direct and direct link between natural and legal persons, as well as public function holders, in relation to those purchases. Identify the degree of involvement of individual holders of the current public functions, with their political impact on the selection, negotiation and signing of contracts and, last but not least, to determine the responsibility of the current holders of public functions, in disarming the former territorial defence during the period prior to the 10-day stand-alone war for Slovenia. After 17 years, we certainly deserve the truth about this event, even though this will undermine the credibility of one of Slovenia's key politicians from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr Aurelio Juri will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u44	Thank you, President. Nice greetings, colleague and colleague! Initially, in order to properly demonstrate the history of the Slovenian rule during the multilateral parliamentary system, let us say and be correct, about the flat and light interpretations that we hear that it is longer in the power of the SDS than the SD, seven years to six. That it was never in the power of LDS and SD, but there were also DeSUS and SLS and that there was also a government when we were all together, including SDS, SD, then ZLSD, LDS and Human Party and DesUS. So there were mixed situations. Despite numerous, cheap accusations, even on our account, which we have just heard and in the introduction itself, or precisely because of these accusations, we do not have the slightest intention to object to the request of our colleague and colleagues and government parties for a parliamentary inquiry to determine public responsibilities in the procurement of waves, Falcona, Israeli haubics, Pilatus, in the recovery of decommissioned tanks or in the disarmament of the current, former territorial defence. Even when it was easy, we wouldn't have done it. Moreover, we will leave to the signatories and to the signatories of the request, if not all, at least the greatest part of the honour and of course the burden of the investigation so that no one, as has already been heard in this Chamber before yesterday, may tomorrow attribute the other political parties to making it difficult to investigate and obstruct its disclosures and findings. To lead the investigative commission, when it is determined, suggest to anyone you want - no matter what we personally think of it, we will not challenge the legitimacy and qualifications of the management of this challenging task. But the comment on what you're doing, however, will also be accepted by the Social Democrats. If I sum up some of your thoughts and comments on the investigation that we have already ordered, which concerns the 8x8 armored business, I can find that you, too, colleagues and colleagues from government parties, do not believe that this initiative will lead to any more tangible result, which should be the result that the investigation must pursue. The already mentioned investigation into a single business that is not yet completed and is not yet realized or is only at the beginning of a realisation that has all the documentation gathered and relatively accessible actors for which it has not walked, at least so we hope, from a public cash register yet an important euro, you attach little chance of success to this investigation. czech, we're supposed to have too little time available, and the experience of previous investigations would have been more than brave and encouraged by such work. However, even though you have already attributed little chance to that investigation, you have requested that you attach to it those investigations that you are now demanding separately: about investments in defence that are long-standing bands, which have been through for years and years, which have been necessary, if there was any doubt in their dispute, to investigate, when they were still alive, when they were smelling the issue and whose protagonists with public powers are now long private or know where. At the time, you also ran the defense committee, and you might suspect that something was wrong, and you also got an investigation, you could collect signatures. No one has ever approached me of your kind and asked me to support such an investigation. I'd be happy to sign up for a murder investigation. But a reasonable suspicion, interestingly, appears only today, "post Festum". And it is only after the other side, when our side, when the opposition, which exercises control of power, suspects honesty, economics, the correctness and purity of the current authority. It is also a bit bizarre, if you allow me, colleagues and colleagues, to use parliamentary investigations while you have in your hands all the levers of government and enforcement and when you can and more effectively relax your reasonable suspicions and verify the alleged controversial past with the help of the real, most competent investigators. No, you're not doing this, but you're going to the instrument the opposition has. Well, you believe in the purpose of this investigation, that you are seriously counting on its extraction and exploitation and that you do not have the slightest intention of tearing away at least part of the public attention and the story. Patri’s armor or the last one, as far as possible, can’t be pushed aside - even a child in kindergarten can’t be convinced. Not even to order the investigation and to clear up the past even if they didn't ask me for the truth in case 8x8. Otherwise, from the leadership of the National Assembly, which must properly service such work by Members and Members, we expect the Social Democrats to provide all the conditions for normal, professional and smooth work on the investigation that we have already ordered and not to find in what we are assigning today any excuse for possible weaknesses in this sense. I would like to point out that it is a political responsibility to provide an appropriate environment and instrument for an already determined investigation and a political responsibility to introduce a new investigation in the same hands. Finally, let me explain from my side, because I was also mentioned and participated in the negotiations, from my own side of the story, which has repeatedly been turned around in the last few weeks by colleagues from the government ranks, so that I could prevent the establishment of a single commission to investigate all of this and which could be more easily serviced. I have documentation, but today my colleagues have also admitted that I also agreed to a single commission during the talks, provided - and during the talks I had the authority of other co-signers, including colleague Anderlič - but provided that I first completed and completed the investigation into Patri’s armoured personnel, for which, I stress once again, we are convinced that we can do it in a year and a half, as long as we have until the end of the mandate, and only then moved on to other suspected controversial transactions. I also agreed to establish a limited, reasonable timeframe for the first investigation, so that by the end of the term of office we could examine the rest, but for the other hand, for your party, it was acceptable and therefore the agreement had failed. Today, you regret not having one commission alone, but if we agreed as you wanted, we would have agreed that our investigation would have failed immediately. Well, this new investigation will be determined whether we participate in it or not or we will closely monitor it and wish you much success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u45	Thank you. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the Group of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must say, at one point, you, the ruling coalition, have achieved what you somehow set or wanted. Regardless of the governments that ruled in that country after 1991, the Slovenian National Party was not present at any time. That's why we can, I think, only look at this thing objectively. Calling on the investigative committee proposed by the government seems stupid, awkward, inappropriate. I think the time has come in this country or in this term it is enough to say, "But the former government has done something." And as few words as you have in this government coalition as you are not just the 'pioons' who participate and squeeze here, please also tell the President of this government that it is enough to ask the question of "the former government." Three years of rule, three years of government must deliver certain results, certain questions to be answered. It is interesting when I look at the content of the proposal to set up this commission of inquiry, it is interesting to see that it begins somewhere where the mandate of the current Prime Minister has ended and the mandate of someone else begins. It seems to me that the Commission of Inquiry has a kind of response to what the opposition has sought to achieve in the case of the investigative commissions in this mandate. Maybe I'm wrong, allowing this thesis to be wrong. But it's enough that someone in this country has ruled for 12 years, that we now rule, and because we make mistakes, it's someone who ruled for 12 years. That's enough, just enough. In this House, certain responsibilities must also be assumed insofar as someone is in government. One mandate without responsibility is a bad mandate. He has a mandate and responsibilities and responsibilities and things that are taking place positively in this country. I'm not saying there's no positive stuff - they are! But that's enough referring to the former power, enough pushing the blame. And this commission of inquiry seems to me to be responding to a request for an investigative committee of 8x8, Patrio, which happened. Among them, I see a government aircraft; a government aircraft was one very large capacity of responsibility, either the wishes of the current authority or the power on which this authority came to the top. [[Mr. Pike, thank you for your attention.]] But, I say, it seems to me that this is exactly the government's plane - and now to cover up your mistakes as far as they are, even if they are not, based on the fact that we're going to make an investigative commission, I think it's nebulosis, stupidity, I'm going to say even impudence to stand on my feet. Courage in this direction to say, "We are the government. We did it. That's good, we're not going to look for what's been bad in the last 12 years, we're going with our track. 6x6 may have been a mistake. The government plane may have been a mistake." But don't make investigative committees! The investigative boards are for some thing to, I'll say, cover up. At least until now, this has been the case in this House. We have never supported such investigative commissions in the Slovenian National Party, nor will we. It's to hide something. With your hand in your hand, I don't know who you're doing this with, but the investigating committee as a government party tool seems a little weird, funny. But what does this government do on the other hand - if you already have a desire for investigative committees? We have heard some of the questions sent on Monday on this subject, including maybe 6x6, even a government plane, including Pilatus, but today we can turn this around and say Elektro Slovenije is not a government plane, but is another person; a man called Damian Kolletnik - what are his priorities to lead this country? But if we're going to be in the next term - if the people are going to trust us, anyone in this House - then I'm going to say, investigative committee, to find out what was wrong with this mandate, if someone else is in the government, I hope it won't be you, but if someone else is in the government, then it's going to be an investigative commission, it seems very strange to me. Admit to yourself, we're now in the government, we're giving, I'll say, the rules of the game, that's right, that's wrong. Don't make any more references! It's bullshit. The previous government also had its attributes, but I would never have been so, I will say, devoured that it itself cannot swallow as it is happening to you, as it is now in this mandate. Greed has gone through all sorts of common sense. And if you want to be objective and realistic, why don't you make an investigative commission on how someone can be President Elektra and at the same time a member of the Telekom Supervisory Board, electricity is being auctioned, and no one can talk about it, 'kamoli' to make an investigative commission! I believe that in the National Assembly it would be rejected if anyone demanded it. That's right. And the same thing is happening. You've made certain places in this country where you want enclaves. The enclave in order not to question these things, not to speak, not to debate them. I am sorry, I come from northeastern Slovenia and I am sorry that this is happening in northeastern Slovenia. I'm very sorry, but if we made an investigative commission and could put it to a vote, I believe that all 32 SDS soldiers would vote against you. I believe one-third wouldn't understand what this is about, and two-thirds would be forced to do so. In this case, no, you did not allow this to be discussed in the National Assembly, but today you want an investigative committee to decide or discuss something in return. Ask yourself about your morals. I've had enough of laying responsibility on others. From now on or from 2004 on, you are responsible. Put it on your back. Be the men who can handle it, or the women who can handle it. It is not the previous government's fault, for certain things that are going on in this country, it is also your fault, but let them defend them, let them stand straight, repeat and upright and say, "We are right," but not that you are inventing investigative commissions that will redirect the course of the country and provide another mandate, perhaps because some previous government has done so. You used a government plane, it was a previous election campaign. In this campaign - I don't know, maybe we'll talk about 8x8 we'll talk about something else. Ministers have been set up by you, maybe we'll talk, I'll say, the first thing that comes to mind: about Shentil, about the things you put there -- they seem terrible to me. It's a minimum commission of inquiry, which should be to explore how things were going there. It's minimal! But you won't do it, no! You're going to keep putting things on the previous government. The Prime Minister, when answering parliamentary questions, does the same thing because he does not answer. Let us be honest, let us be objective, for he does not answer! Every time he gets up, he says, "Six years ago, when there was another government..." - That's not an answer, that's a liability lie. You've been in power for three years, come on, please, take some responsibility, and this investigative committee is sand in the eyes. We don't vote on it. This investigative committee will, have it, find the irregularities. As far as the Slovenian National Party is concerned, we are not afraid, we have not been in any government, we have not participated in any such, I will say, corruption or the issue of corruption. But the "three K's" were your pre-election propaganda, but they're moving on. They used to happen in a sophisticated way, but now they're happening directly. I told you, northeast Slovenia is an example of this! He's an example of this! You can't hide that either! Corruption, clienteleism - regular. You've been able to afford one of your staff, and this one doesn't know how to collect people, but it just defines between friends, who we're going to put somewhere. And this is where we need an investigative commission. And if you're honest with yourself, you'll set it up if you have a spine. Don't push it all forward. There are things you will have to take responsibility for, ladies and gentlemen. And if you have assumed the responsibility of ruling this country, you will also assume the responsibility of your rule of this country. That's it. Three years of term is over. And if you're going to build a campaign on this investigative committee, I must say, sadly. Unfortunately, you don't know how to campaign on your own success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u48	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The old Latin river says, "Tempora mutant et nos mutamur and illis" - times change and we change with them. We were in position before, now we're in opposition. My colleagues on the right were previously in opposition, now in position. They put on those boots that we dated years ago, but they seem to me to be running with them worse according to the principles that they had previously advocated. It was because we, under the terms of "original sin" that sometimes, when we were in position, we set up an investigative commission, it was an investigative commission on arms trafficking, a bedroom and so forth, and that at that time the main point of the current largest customer was: if you have everything in your hands, the whole government apparatus, if you have a whole repressive apparatus in your hands, why you are establishing an investigative commission and why not me. Now they're following the same patterns that we've been told to make mistakes. And in this I see the duality of a man who first advocates some principles in the opposition, and then these same principles defend precisely the counter-arguments when he comes into position. Therefore, the objections of some colleagues to me are more than such that, if somehow, it should have been considered, it should have held that it would have remained in democracy as an instrument of the investigative commission of the opposition's instrument. That didn't happen, I'm afraid. Of course, the person who does so is referred to in the lexicon of philosophy as "homo duplex" or some call it transvestite, but this happens to us every day when we look at how we react and how we act when we are in one political position and how we act when we are in another political opposition. It is good for me that my colleagues have set up this commission of inquiry, and I hope that they will also expand the decision when they investigate it. In fact, they work according to principle, now, not for the good of the country, but for the war in the country, in this way, as the old Latin river "You're taller, a pair of bellums" - if you want peace, prepare war. If we look into the past, let us remember, for example, if we said at least one or two cases; one very far when Comrade Jagodnik asked those 27 or 28 questions about arms trafficking of the Ministry of Defence. But not the devil, before anyone could even answer these questions, immediately followed, despite the embargo on the Office of the Ministry of Defence, the discovery of weapons at the Maribor airport. And then the entire National Assembly dealt instead with weapons that traveled from Slovenia or through Slovenia, through the Ministry of Defence, with what the Ministry of the Interior was doing. If we look at the current system, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Owl case. In the case of Owl, it is more than obvious that there are reasonable suspicions that this was an abuse of the situation and illegal work. And what's going on? What are the media now full of, and what do we see in our daily conversations? The fact that members of the opposition from this commission were either members of the State Security Service or were, as I have been told, that I was the source of the State Security Service. From the vine, twisted arguments cover the media scene and distract attention from problems related to the intelligence and security activities of the Republic of Slovenia, to peripheral things. This is said to be the composition of a commission that is supposed to solve these things and at the same time discredit them and divert attention to others. This system, "You're taller, a pair of bellums" - if you want peace, prepare war, it turned out in several cases. Colleagues and colleagues! Do you still have so much memory if you remember when the opposition wanted to have an investigative commission to investigate suspicious transactions on its own, because it was supposed to be damaged by Mercator's large social assets - what did the position do? One day earlier, she filed, or perhaps a few hours, her request for a commission. It was not possible to agree that this matter would be handled as a matter of priority or that the opposition would have its own commission. This means that it was a great fear that this thing would be done in this segment, as it would be in normal democracy. But now you're researching, and I hope you'll have a good look at this thing by the end of your term. When we have invested, i.e. the opposition, the demand to investigate the acquisition of eight-wheelers now - but it is not the devil to appear immediately then again: the opposite. That's what I'm saying, but we will, if you happen to find anything or if we're packs, let's see what you've been doing in your previous mandates. But look, it's symptomatic of how the date is set. The date starts- what year? - in 1994. Why not start once, if it is so important, with 1990 — disarmament of territorial defence? Why don't we go see how we sold weapons on and through the territory of the Republic of Slovenia from 1991 to 1994? Why is it that the current position, if so fair, did not set this goal to once "mother of all affairs", that is, trade in weapons there from 1990 to 1993, put under the roof. Each blind man sees in this that they were then appointed members, perhaps now leading members of some opposition parties, those who led such a trade. And maybe such an investigation would have hurt anyone in that period until 1994, so don't let God do me research that period, but let's go explore when the other political option was at the top. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think that if before the elections the opposition at the time announced those three famous "K" and that it will fight for a liberated Slovenia - this is what we are experiencing every day, an affair with an affair, with arms, with an army and all these things for me, forgive me, it is not any relaxed Slovenia. This Parliament is being used for certain political prestigious fights on the left and on the right, we are awaiting the Presidency of the European Union, but this is a small meal. Every day we watch what is happening in one intelligence service, where one stand has been discovered, where the State Security Service has had its affairs, which members of Parliament have cooperated with the State Security Service and so on. It's our daily routine. I think that the current position, which already has sufficient instruments in our young country, should be built, which lastly also has 34,000 people working for the government, or even more so that it will have to use this apparatus to use this irregularity, if any, to find out, to get the culprits before the proper instances and bring them to an end. But if we go to Parliament now, colleagues and colleagues, this game: I to you - you to me, this commission has now come to you, here are yours, this commission has come to you, here are yours, here are yours, and we will go to this competition one commission against another commission, one political option against another political option a few months before the Presidency of the European Union, I must say that this is a very, very bad light on democracy in the Republic of Slovenia. We look like the most divisive parliament in the world, and instead of dealing with things that would lead us along the path of the Lisbon strategy and the Bologna declaration, we are prisoners of nothing but some affairs, but just some investigative committees and I don't know what else. I mean, respected colleagues and colleagues, this situation is not good for our young democracy. I'm saying, if there's still time, let's stop some horses and try to act more country-efficient than ever. If, of course, this country is also going to be guided in such a way, without any consensus, without any tolerance among Members, without an embellishment and a kind word in this House, then it is worse for the people who have chosen us to represent their will when we sit here and decide on their behalf. If the current position has not been able to with the instruments, the money, the influence it has at its disposal, to come up with these irregularities that you are reading in the arguments for setting up a commission, and these things to the end, I sincerely wish you a successful job when you do these things. I want you to end up showing some results, because if you don't, you're just going to have to go to the election with your backpack and the taxpayers will tell you why you've been spending money on these things, which the state would still need on some other segments. I forgive myself if I've spoken a little longer and if I've hurt anyone, thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u50	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! We often talk about matters relating to the basic functions of Parliament, parliamentary democracy, divisions between the parties. On the one hand, we have this piece of legislation that is sometimes omitted at the expense of this supervisory body. The Supervisory Authority is obviously more suitable for instigating, for acting unethical, for doing everything that people then criticize, and rightly so, all of it, all of 90, without exception. The position of our parliamentary group is that this commission is totally unnecessary, of course unnecessary for Parliament and for the existence of parliamentary democracy in Slovenia. Of course, it's obviously very necessary for something else. It belongs to that area of secret weapons that the German army had prepared there in 1945, one of them was the famous "Nebelwerfer", a fog thrower. A weapon that, of course, clouded everything so that it could not be seen, not where one army is, not where the other is. And that's about what happens to these anti-commissions, if I can call them that. When the opposition sets up one commission to investigate the current actions, the real actions that it has done during the current, current term of office, have been done, the ruling coalition or government will immediately appear some insight into a part of history, of course never in whole. The entire chapters are released with great joy, even where protagonists are now sitting either in the government or in the ruling coalition. That is why we also listen to this reduced, for example, storytelling about who ruled in the past period. We hear that the LDS and SD ruled, the other two parties are not mentioned. That's it. Now, either for someone to look down on or for someone to shut up. Similarly, of course, these events are listed in the period to be reviewed by this new Commission. Of course, there are parts, time periods, and of course people who are completely abandoned. There is talk of disarmament of territorial defence, but it is not said that the Slovenian territorial defence began to be reduced in 1985. At the time when large units of territorial defence were abolished in Slovenia, when all brigades were abolished and this army collapsed, of course, so that in 1990 weapons could also be required for individual municipal headquarters of the Territorial Defence. And something else happened in those days, of course, which you don't want to say, because it wouldn't fit this story that you want to frame people in some way, but of course you don't finish. Then let the people tell themselves this story further and blur the situation. The mother of all affairs, as my colleague Rudy said, is a very good mother, because she never says everything to the end, but always leaves and allows different interpretations, of course. And when they're too few, when they're too few, then something new happens again. I don't think this parliamentary commission is actually going to do any of this, which is why it's supposed to be set up. That's not really an interest. Its task is far beyond that; it is its function to act even if it were to be terminated, and in particular to act at a time when the agreement of all parties for the conduct of the Presidency and the preparations for the presidency should be in force. There should be peace, and the commission should make public various insinuations: half a story, a quarter of a story, clues, names. That's why it's also basically making all this Slovenian politics at this time of year some kind of malague, in which no one is going to be in it, and neither are the electorates. It's just going to the rave of now ruling coalitions, which I would like to actually use all of these imaginary instruments to make the black governments of the past, because now it's also because of three years of doing stupid things that are closer to people and they understand them more because they're today, but they've gone, let's just say, to forget, they can't be so successful anymore. Of course, with repeated repetition, it achieves that, for example, stories are restored, but at the same time, of course, every smart person knows that this raises the threshold of tolerance and then people become insensitive to these past things. These everyday ones certainly feel and understand much more. In this way, Slovenia is truly, I will say, a disgrace to Europe. Anyone I meet who is not from our places is, in fact, in some way asking with a mocking question or asking me what we are doing with all these commissions, with all these unusual moves that they do not know elsewhere, or where they are elsewhere very much at the edge of what Parliament is supposed to do, what its committees, its commissions, are supposed to do. Obviously, we are putting ourselves in a position where on our horizon we are not both Lisbon and Bologna, but like Will and Poče, this is the place where we like to spin very much. It would be good to make an end of it, but the question is, if it really suits the current coalition. I'm sure you don't. If you didn't burn this eternal end, so that you could blind all the other phenomena that happen to blind yourself to such stories that are also attracted to your hair, all that really happened. People can't see it that well, and they can't understand it that well, but they can protect all those who were protagonists at the time. To protect someone who would otherwise not protect him, but only to protect the highest. This is clearly the task of this commission, which is why I am not at all satisfied that it will exist, to all the members and to the one who will lead it, but I want them to do their job, not as they would like, but as they have written down to do. God help them, they've got the devil on their side.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u52	Thank you very much. It's my turn very quickly, obviously, that nobody cares anymore, which is also understandable, convenient, and more. And to this story, which is unusual, man adds anything clever. The reasons for setting up this commission are very unusual, incomprehensible, and I also believe that the establishment of this commission is unnecessary. I think that colleagues have made it clear enough that the current government has all the tools at its disposal to investigate, show, even clever enough to adapt the stories in the way it fits. Last but not least, the appearance of some documents that never seemed to exist from the documentation of the Owl, which appeared right against those people who had said anything against the current government, is how to discredit political opponents or those who are engaged in any detection of the irregularities of people who are, say, currently in power. The stories that are planned here for this commission to explore, one of those that, say, accompany me, Falcon, is a matter that the current government would certainly want if it did not have behind it countless critics of the visa of the previous government to allow itself to buy the plane that it bought. I will always and forever remember the time when the next unfortunate government of the Robbery decided to sell Falcon, we were on a business trip to the Czech Republic and in the morning information came to the hotel that the government was selling Falcon. A colleague from SDS and NSI at the reception then said, "Uh, that's not gonna be good, because we were also in charge of buying this Falcon." We have such stories, for some or many Members, we may not have known because they were happening in the backstage, and today we are going to explore the stupidities that are, the stories that are past us, but we were some figures there, and now you're going to explore what you'll never explore, except to tell the actual actors, tell them what you've agreed that we won't mess with it. And in these things, there are many other things where we will never get to the end, and in general the way that the government's furniture explores things when it has all the instruments at its disposal and, of course, when it can afford illegal things, such as joining the Owl, etc. The political map is probably influenced by a number of things that have already been tried, and those who should have enough interest to cooperate have not cooperated and, of course, will be similar here. And I'm afraid you won't find anything clever here, because you don't have that purpose either, but I'm afraid that somewhere else the matter won't go so far as to detect actual actors, abuse of political power or whatever we call them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u53	Mr. Aurelio Yuri has the floor. You're giving up. It's time for the proposal. Any of the candidates want a word? No, no, no. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? The application for discussion shall be open. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I am speaking on my behalf, about my views on my decision, including as one of the signatories to the request for this parliamentary inquiry, I agree with it and support it at the same time. I must point out in the introduction that I support the identification of political responsibility for those projects carried out for the Slovenian Army in the past years, in which it was also clear to non-experts and unknowns of the military profession that better solutions were possible during a given period. The government aircraft appeared overnight in the basic development programmes. Nowhere, no defence programmes or military development programmes were involved. It was not covered either by the law governing after 1994 the financing of the Slovenian Armed Forces' core development programmes. The only link to the military that could be identified for this purchase was the Secretary-General's claim that the aircraft would also be used for the transport of injured persons and that the funds for the purchase of this aircraft would be provided under the basic development programmes. That's what happened. The purchase was made on the basis of the law on budget implementation and later included in the plans for the implementation of the core development programmes. An extremely expensive, over-equipped and luxury plane worth about $35 million was purchased. Why are you shopping like that? Why such a luxurious operation of the aircraft, and why within the framework of defence programmes? If any, then that investment was a mistake. It's almost every day in the last two years of this speech. Everyone has become an expert in armored vehicles, weapons, their destination and equipment. We also deal with armoured personnel constantly in the National Assembly and in particular in the Defence Committee. All these discussions are intended for the purchase of armored 8x8 for which the decision was taken in the previous term, but nothing has been said about the purchase of armoured arms 6x6 in previous years. I must point out that I support at the heart of this, that there must also be benefits for the domestic economy when implementing defence programmes and equipping the military. However, efforts must remain within the framework of reality and must not be enforced at all costs. But I'm sure that's exactly what happened to the acquisition of 85 light armoured vehicles 6x6 in previous years. How else can it be explained that 26 other contracts and annexes have been concluded under the basic contract? How it could have happened that communication and communication systems were not installed in vehicles until after the vehicles had been used in the Slovenian Army. What does it mean to approve the General Staff on a case at the Defence Committee that 30 vehicles had fractures in the structure or base armor and that the vehicle had to be reinforced subsequently? How could it have happened that an official at the Ministry of Defence had signed a letter with the supplier of these vehicles concerning the intention in which he also ensured cooperation in armored vehicles 8x8, and these were not yet in defence programmes or in development? And it could have been listed. The value of these purchases, however, was substantial to more than 20 billion tolars at the time. The modernisation of the T55 tanks also took place in a strange way. At first, it has been implemented for several years, it has been implemented with entirely new solutions and metastases, although in some countries the Russian tanks are being updated. The value of the update was also over 10 billion tolars and we barely updated them, and we also excluded them from operational use. Therefore, if we are to verify and assess the usefulness of the acquisition of military equipment, it is appropriate to check all purchases and related transactions throughout the period following the adoption of the basic development programmes. That is why I also personally support this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Aurelio Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I took the floor this time because I thought that colleague Yelen would say something that would encourage me to object. The thesis is repeatedly repeated that the purchase of armored 8x8 was accepted by the previous authorities. I would like to remind my colleague Jelen that, on the Defence Committee, we are the holders of the former authorities, namely, the heirs of those powers, the Members of the Liberal Democracy and Social Democrats, in due time, have asked the Minister to revoke that decision on the basis of the wrong decision in the previous term, because it is of course unjustifiable and unnecessary. Let this invitation not be made to go into this very expensive and unnecessary, as time will show, procurement. But this authority insisted that this business was necessary, so it assumes full responsibility for the business. Otherwise, tomorrow a new commission of inquiry will appear out of your kind, which will complain when it is possible that the purchase of the Patria eight-wheelers will prove pointless in time, and you will complain about the previous authority because it was then decided in a resolution on this acquisition. So you don't take responsibility for that. This government, this minister, he wanted to, he wanted to, and he made a deal to buy bicycles. Otherwise, it would be correct for you today to come up with this initiative to inform the public of what was wrong at the time of the transfer of business, at the time of taking over the business, on the findings that we are now finding that all those transactions he inherited were missed; then he ordered appropriate procedures that would expose the holders of previous public defence functions, and so on. But today to launch an investigative commission or to direct an investigation - three years after you've been running all this business, when you're running this department and, of course, in response, clearly, to what we did when it dawned on us that, after we didn't get the right answers, we have to investigate as appropriate. And of course this blind, difficult maneuver is clear to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Since my decision will be different from the majority decision of my parliamentary group, I would like to say a few words. The well-established princes of parliamentary democracy have practically ordered that the Institute of Investigative Parliamentary Opportunities be used by the opposition because it has no data, has no documents, has no information and is perfectly normal. However, to establish an investigative commission, the position of the Government and all the departments is ridiculous. The government, the government, with all the possibilities, with all the equipment it has, as it can enter the intelligence service, can enter into all the documentation and procedures of a source. That's what he's supposed to do. For the period to be investigated by this Commission, the Slovenian People's Party led the Ministry of Defence quite a good time. And I hope to say, at least for the time that Dr Demšar led him, that that period could be only for the current defence minister as an example, if he could perhaps take a little deeper, how did this minister then establish transparency and transparency in the defence ministry as well. So, unfortunately, it's unnecessary. It would only take one to finally mature the time for the biggest government party to change their shoes and start ruling. We were investigating before, we were investigating falcon, instead of just one bike from falcon, we could offer free lunches and transportation to all students and students, there was an argument. But this Falcon would come to us today during the presidency and even these governments as well. It is a shame, therefore, that, as a coalition, we are going to seek to establish a parliamentary investigative facility which will investigate what is in the reach of the government; all instruments have the executive power to establish a review of the transparency, harmfulness and integrity of decisions taken at the defence ministry and at the level of the government back-to-back - without investigative commissions. And we could learn from this title for at least a period of time something useful or reasonably good and also for the current policy management of the Ministry of Defence. So, unfortunately, I do not support this because I claim that the Institute of Inquiry or Parliamentary Investigations is a practically necessary institution for the opposition to be able to supervise the executive authority, so that documents can systematically come to light, to arguments it cannot otherwise reach. And that this is the natural path that is in the stable, as I initially said, parliamentary democracy is a constant. And what we're doing today is a bad journey for someone, I don't know, like Slovenian Parliamentarianism. And I certainly will not support this Commission, as the results of this Commission will not be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Školč has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will continue where my colleague Brenčič ended up, with whom I will say, I agree mainly. I would just say that this is one of those rare reasonable debates that we have received in this Parliament by colleagues from the government coalition when it comes to some issues related to the role of Parliament, the stories that Parliament should or should not deal with, the position of the government and the situation of parliamentarians. Unfortunately, such discussions in this reference are lonely. My hand to heart, even in the previous reference, there were not many people who spoke against the majority in their ranks. Therefore, these things are worth considering, and they are precious. If we look around this hall - what do we notice first? That's a lot of ignorance for the proponents. I don't know if I should go on or not, but my colleague Tanko, who has cooked this with all his signatures, is gone. Why? Are all these debates that have been here not worth answering? Are not all these questions that he raises actually intended to be cleared in sentries? Why do you suggest research and investigation from your position if you are not willing to discuss its origins with us? To whom and to what does this serve? Discrediting some people who can't take political responsibility anymore because they've already put it in the elections? Or what my colleagues were saying, blurring things out and distracting attention? All of this is possible and are legitimate assets of the coalition, but it is unacceptable for colleagues Tanko and his colleagues to ignore this National Assembly. That they do not respond to the concerns that they do not listen to it and thus demonstrate the importance of this type of discussion. That is, I will say, in a way sad and unacceptable and in heaven an insidious understanding of what the role of Parliament is. Parliament is obviously a government only in ornament and to confirm what it wants, but it is not ready for this government in Parliament to answer anything and no one. Members of the coalition are prepared at any time to put anyone on the "pranger" and not answer to anyone for what they say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! We have the Law on the Establishment of Parliamentary Investigation Commissions. A law that's been in force for several years. The law shall be adopted by a majority in Parliament. Thus, neither the previous coalition nor the current law has changed. The law states: 30 Members, regardless of whether they are made up of the opposition, coalitions - in short, have this legal right. If we were to change this, I am first in favour of this as an instrument of opposition and would support the amendment of such a law. But, as a matter of fact, that didn't happen. Even more, I find it incorrect to speak here today by those who have been in the coalition for 12 years that it is an instrument of opposition. When you were in the coalition, in power, you set up investigative commissions, set up and run. And so it is now, the law has not changed in this. I had no doubts yesterday, and with honesty and honesty I confirmed the establishment of a commission as well as those who will lead the commission. It is not my right to decide who those 30 Members will propose to run such a commission. This is my duty under the law to make this possible, and I have done so. So today I think there's just a little too much stuffing, because we know exactly how things are going. When you are in opposition, you say only in front of microphones what weighs you down or when you can say everything in front of the microphones, but when you are in coalitions, of course, you talk a lot within the parliamentary group, within the coalition, and there are mostly problems. My colleagues and colleagues, as regards the establishment of this commission of inquiry, I think it is justified. I am only sorry that this coalition of ours did not remember and did so at the beginning of the term of office. Look at the work of those who will work on this commission of inquiry - they will have a very easy job. Only reports from the Court of Auditors will need to be examined. All reports of the Court of Auditors for the purchase of TRPs, Havbics, Radars, Tanks and so on were negative. I have also discussed this as a member of the opposition and as a member of the Commission for Budgetary Control at its meetings and meetings of the Committee on Finance. However, the media did not report this at all. So, a lot of tax money, billions of it was wasted on things that are today or in warehouses, the radar is still in the rains, still packed, still nowhere to stand and so on. It is necessary who is responsible, even though he no longer performs the most responsible tasks and functions today. It is necessary to say, because of history, that we should not make the same mistakes again. Colleagues and colleagues, in my first term, I led a commission on damage to social property. Do you know what the coalition did then? It corrupt itself with the judiciary, with the Government and with the National Assembly, all three institutions of power were corrupt, literally corrupt and the then coalition did not allow this report, which was adopted by the Commission, to be examined by the National Assembly. What happened? The judgment was handed down in March, from March to December, the judgment was not written because, in the meantime, the law had changed and the coalition majority had passed the law, and all those convicted were subsequently forgiven for hundreds of millions at the time in stamps or billions in Slovenian tolars. It is right for the commission to be set up and to say some things today, even in America now, after six years in Parliament, to determine what Bush has done with regard to the Iraq war, if we can't do it sooner, and now we will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-26-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u63	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Procedural question of what? No, no, no. Then, after the Rules of Procedure, further discussion is no longer possible. Time was divided. I'm closing the debate. On the basis of Article 4, second paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Inquiry, the assembly does not vote on the determination of the parliamentary inquiry, so I note that the Parliamentary Chamber ordered a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, who participated in the preparation and implementation of the purchase of light armoured wheeled vehicles 6x6, government aircraft, hawbic 155 millimetres, fire management systems, Pilatus aircraft and the restoration of T55S tanks financed under the basic development programmes of the defence forces of the Republic of Slovenia in 1994-2007 due to the suspicion that the transactions were politically negotiated, operated in a non-transparent manner and that they were non-economic, and because of the suspicion of the presence of clienteleism and corruption and the suspicion of the responsibility of the holders of public functions in disarming the former territorial defence. The purpose of the parliamentary inquiry is to determine whether the projects carried out in the framework of the implementation of the basic development programmes at the Ministry of Defence have been carried out transparently and with the care of the good owner, to determine whether the tenders and signed contracts of those projects have been carried out in accordance with the rules and guidelines adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. To identify and clarify the terms and procedures of the award, order confidential nature, selection of tenders, negotiations and the content of the contracts. To determine whether purchases have been made through intermediaries. Find out what interests and what links or related transactions were behind the purchases. To verify, prove or disprove the suspected direct and direct link between natural and legal persons and public function holders in relation to those purchases. Identify the degree of involvement of individual public function holders with their political impact on the selection, negotiation and signing of contracts. Identify the level of political responsibility of individual public function holders in the execution of individual projects. Identify, prove or disprove the State's suspicion of injury in those projects, determine the usable value of the equipment purchased and the degree of its functional utility for the defence readiness of the State and the impact of such purchases on the fulfilment of the international obligations of the State. To determine whether the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia would be properly and in a timely manner familiar with the preparation and implementation phase and determine the responsibility of the holders of public functions in disarming the former territorial defence. The scope of the parliamentary investigation shall be to determine the manner in which those purchases are carried out at the Ministry of Defence or in the case of a government aircraft in the relevant government services or ministries. To determine whether the tenders and signatures of the contracts were carried out in accordance with the rules and guidelines adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. To clarify and clarify the terms and conditions of the procedures for the award of contracts of a confidential nature, choice, tenders, negotiations and signature of contracts. Finding out whether the purchases were made through intermediaries. Identifying the interests and links or related transactions that were behind the purchases. Identifying direct and direct links between natural and legal persons and public function holders. Identify the degree of involvement of individual public function holders with their political impact on the selection, negotiation and signing of contracts. To determine whether purchases have been made transparently and economically and whether all potential tenderers have been invited to participate. Identifying the real usable value and functionality of the purchased state security equipment. To determine whether anti-procurement has been made for purchases and what direct and indirect benefits these purchases have brought to the Republic of Slovenia, the opening of new direct and direct jobs. Identifying the damage to the State in the above-mentioned purchases. Identify the consistency of tenders and contracts concluded with all annexes. Identify the appropriateness and regularity of the procedures for the preparation and award of purchase orders, the selection and negotiation of contracts and the conclusion of contracts with all annexes. To determine whether the equipment purchased meets the standards and requirements resulting from the international obligations of the State. Identifying the responsibility of public officials in the resolution of the former territorial defence. The Parliamentary Commission is hereby designated. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry and to forward it to the National Assembly at the latest at its forthcoming meeting. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 27th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, to be resumed on Monday 7 May 2007 at 10 a.m. Goodbye.
