ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, Secretary of State! Good morning. I begin the 24th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: France [[Ferry]] Horvat, Breda Pecan from 16:00 on and Milan Friday from 15:00 on. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE MANAGEMENT COOPERATION LAW, EPA 1063 - IV. We have three hours and 40 minutes to discuss. The draft law was submitted to the Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Cotman's Minister, for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The most important objective of the proposed amendments to the law is to regulate the issues of participation of workers in company bodies with a single management system, which has been provisionally regulated by the Company Act. With the adoption of the proposed amendments and additions, the amended law will regulate the full participation of workers in the management of both the two-track system and the single management system. In addition, the proposal also contains the most urgent alignment with the Labour Relations Act and the Offences Act. In connection with the regulation of the participation of workers in company bodies with a single management system, the proposed amendments follow the solutions provided for in Article 703 of the Company Act and are upgraded to a certain extent, where appropriate. While the solutions put forward are proposed for constitutional review, the Constitutional Court has not yet decided. The Government, which fully rejects the proposal by the initiator of the Constitutional Opinion, believes that it is appropriate and necessary to pass on the issue of workers' participation in the management of the home law and thus burden the status law. In accordance with the proposed additions, the participation of workers in the management of company bodies with a single management system will be implemented through representatives of employees on the Management Board and in the boards of the Management Board, but also through a representative of workers from the executive directors of the company. Taking into account the legal solutions, the number of employees' representatives on the management board of a company with a single system shall not be less than one employee representative from every three additional members of the Management Board. The draft law also lays down the right of the Council of Workers to appoint a representative of workers to the board of the Management Board and to the committee of the Supervisory Board. The latter is even an extension of workers' rights compared to the resolution of the Company Act. Following the example of the Labour Director in the company administration, a similar right is granted to workers in the single management system. The bill provides for the possibility that in cases where a company has more than 500 workers, one employee representative on the Management Board will become one of the executive directors appointed by the Management Board on a proposal from the Labour Council. In addition, the proposal of the law, as an extension of rights, offers the possibility of an agreement for an Executive Director of a type of employee representative on the Management Board also for companies that employ less than 500 workers. Taking into account the solution adopted under the Company Act, which provides that the provisions on the participation of workers in company bodies in a single management system are not applicable to small companies, the proposal for amendments to the law introduces the same solution for companies with a single management system as well as for companies with a two-tier management system. It should be pointed out here that the regulation already allows the participation of workers in company bodies with a two-tier management system if the company did not meet certain conditions, for example, 500 employees. Of course, up to 50 employees may be otherwise agreed in a particular small company, as provided for by the Company Act. An important amendment to the law is also the extension of the Act on the participation of workers in the management of independent entrepreneurs by individuals who have been exempted from the Act. This supplement has also been introduced into the law taking into account the purpose of the Directive governing information and consultation in companies with more than 50 employees or in establishments with more than 20 employees and in the event of the abolition of the employment restriction. The proposed amendments to the Workers' Cooperation Act were coordinated with the social partners in the framework of the Development Partnership at the time of preparation. In addition, following a general discussion and a public presentation of the opinions, discussions on the Commission of the State Council for Social Activities and on its own examination at the home labour body have also resulted in some improvements and further harmonisation of the material, and some for the Government of the Unacceptable Solutions, which is why the Government, as a bill-maker, supports all amendments tabled jointly by the SDS Group and New Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr Brenčič, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I warmly welcome the Minister with the Secretary of State and you, colleagues and fellow Members! The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the proposal of the Act at its 21st regular meeting, 18.1.2007, as the parent working body. The members and members of the Committee received a proposal for a bill, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, an opinion from the Commission of the State Council for Social Activities, an opinion from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, comments from the Union of Free Trade Unions and extensive comments from the Association of Councils of Slovenian Enterprises. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service warned the proposer that the provision of Article 14 of the proposed law should be aligned with the Law on the introduction of the euro, which then happened. In its opinion, the Commission of the Council of State supported the bill. It also supported an agreement between the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia on the drafting of amendments to the bill. In a long and controversial debate, the representative of the Association of Councils of Slovenian Enterprises pointed out, above all, the harmonisation provisions of the proposed Law on Economic Companies, which are substantially beyond their purpose and which substantially alter the content of the solutions so far. In the debate, he also pointed out that the proposal of the Law on the participation of workers in management in certain provisions was outdated and should therefore be corrected accordingly. Some members of the Committee objected to the above-mentioned claims, as the extension of rights could undermine the competitiveness of businesses and affect the autonomy of mutual bargaining. Some members felt, however, that the law should give workers a greater opportunity to decide on the results of the work, because good cooperation and informed workers about the objectives and development of the company is a basis for good business, for building mutual trust. The Committee supported the amendments of the Social Democrats' Group by 4, 5, 2 to 6 and 11, and the Committee did not support the amendments to Articles 8, 12 and 13. The amendment to the 10th Article of this Parliamentary Group has become irrelevant by adopting the amendment of the Committee as its amendment. However, the Committee has drafted its amendments to Articles 2, 7, 10 and 14, which are incorporated as the rest of the amendments adopted into the amended law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u5	Thank you, too. Since the Assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 22nd meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. And we are moving on to the debate on the five open articles and the amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 29.1.2007. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS and NSI groups of Members. I see no one wants to discuss it. Then I'll open the application. Please log in by pressing the key if you remember anything else. Thank you very much. The first word is Mrs. Pecanova. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon, fellow Members and Members! I am taking the floor because of the amendment just put forward by the Vice-President, the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia to Article 1 of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the participation of workers in management. It seems incredible to me that with only one simple amendment, we can keep in a totally unequal position the multitude of workers who have entered into a working relationship in Slovenia and with a sole entrepreneur compared to their comrades and comrades in a neighbouring company, which is a company with limited liability or perhaps an economic institution, or a share company, or with a sole entrepreneur even in a neighbouring country. Why do I say that? Since 1993, when we have adopted the basic text of the law on the participation of workers in management, this distinction has already been drawn between workers working in companies and those employed in independent entrepreneurs. The first shall have the right to take the initiative and to respond to the initiative, to information, to give opinions and proposals and to respond to them, to consult the employer jointly, to co-decision and to retain the decisions of the employer without any restriction on the number of employees with active electoral rights in the company, while that possibility has not been given to workers with independent entrepreneurs. What's the difference between each other? Does a worker with a self-employed person less contribute to productivity, business success, profits than those in an economic society? Whether any of you who have tabled this amendment, gentlemen and ladies from New Slovenia from the Democratic Party of Slovenia can explain to me the difference between a worker, for example in a textile factory or in an machinery factory, or an electric factory owned by three or four members, or one that works in a factory owned by a single owner who is so crafty that he would rather give up the advantages that the organisation of a single company brings to him, only in order to get rid of the running of works that want to influence the good and successful operation of a company that wants to maintain jobs in which they serve their hard-earned bread. I'm sure you don't know the answer. Clearly, there is no valid reason to explain this distinction. That is why I propose to you, ladies and gentlemen of the SDS and NSI, that you withdraw this amendment, because everything smells too much of a pact with various seemingly small entrepreneurs who want to serve without any control of those whose fruits are collected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I, too, propose in some way to the amendment's proposer that this amendment withdraw for the following reasons. First of all, I'm going to say something principled, in general, with regard to the introduction that the well-respected minister had. Indeed, today we are considering the Law on Employees' Participation in Management. We do not discuss or adopt legislation concerning capital owner or owners of companies and companies. So today we are discussing giving certain rights and opportunities to participate in the creation of a vision and the future of some companies to most people who are employed in a company. And this amendment, if we accept it, according to the statistics with which the Ministry of Labour is safely at its disposal, is excluded from cooperation in the management of companies between 35% and 40% of employees in Slovenia. However, if the trend continues with regard to the development of small economies and entrepreneurship and these larger systems will be, these larger societies will be divided into smaller or dying societies, which means even more. And that's why I'm asking; who do we then accept this law for? For these remaining 65% to 60% of the people, and we have already made inequalities when we stayed or especially for the employer? So once again, I would suggest that you try to step aside in some way. And there's something else I'd like to say about that. I am a little disappointed, given the discussion that was on the committee where, I think, there was a substantively significant discussion, and in the meantime, until this meeting of the National Assembly, the Ministry or Government, together with the coalition parties or with the two parties of the coalition, agreed that all those things that were adopted by the majority of the Committee would be excluded today. It says he's going back to his previous condition. Here I would point out once again that this is, in my view, an unfair relationship, that whenever we discuss and adopt laws at the level of the ratio and the relationship between capital and work, the Government gives this to the Ministry of Labour and the social advantage of capital and the owner of capital, it does not protect the vast majority of others who create this capital. Here I would expect, at least, to expect this ministry and the people working on this ministry to give more attention to these people.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you. My word to Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u10	Your Honor! The fact that we are talking about amendments today is a result of the activities of individual entities that have changed the original text of the amendment after it was coordinated between the social partners and endorsed in the Economic and Social Council. The amendment to Article 1 touches on independent entrepreneurs, where we try to regulate their status and status in accordance with European legislation and directives. Directive 2002/14/EC uses the concept of an undertaking and, according to the Union of Unions, the concept of an undertaking is broader than that of a company and a cooperative or any entity engaged in an economic activity and is therefore proposed on the Committee to supplement Article 1 that the law applies to all operators engaged in an economic activity. In practice, there are independent entrepreneurs with more than 100 employees who are currently unable to exercise the rights set out in the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management. Therefore, an amendment was adopted on the Committee following the requirements of the Directive and eliminating the legal inconsistentity and inconsistencies in which the law also extends to independent entrepreneurs of individuals. However, the Directive allows a threshold to be set for the exercise of these rights, as it provides that it applies to undertakings employing at least 50 workers or to establishments employing at least 20 workers. The amendment adopted by the Committee raises the question of the threshold for the creation of a labour council. It is therefore necessary to listen to the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Employers of Slovenia, which reminds us that the saints of workers are an important entity in their work, and in particular in the promotion of individual companies, but, on the other hand, they bring, logically, costs and obligations to employers. Independent entrepreneurs are not equal to large corporations, since they are usually individuals or micro-enterprises who are responsible for their personal property. As the amendments to the law extend to employees of individual entrepreneurs, I support the amendment that it is appropriate for individual entrepreneurs to respect the provisions of this law if they had at least 50 employees, and in the event that workers would in fact decide to set up a labour council. Such an amendment is also a compromise that gives employees of independent entrepreneurs the opportunity to participate in the core tasks they touch while at the same time fully complying with the purpose of the directive, which recommends that the directive be applicable to employers who employ at least 50 workers. We will therefore support in the Slovenian Democratic Party the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party and the New Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much. And Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Well, article 1 gives both novels and basic laws the concept and purpose of the law. It is therefore very important how the law as such is established in Article 1. But there's something else I want to say. The law on the participation of workers in management came about many years ago. And one of the biggest protagonists or supporters of this law was Dr. Pučnik, who, as a sociologist, as a advocate of good practice, was a persistent example. He wanted this good practice, which was achieved in German companies - and regardless of, you know, the number of companies - to transfer it urgently to a new economic, economic situation also in order to create greater trust, to establish ownership between management, between owners and workers, to encourage this positive climate, which is a greater guarantee of the success of the company than all the selfish tendencies of modern-day, many morale-wrong entrepreneurs who, in a strong way, are practically setting up employees or their employees as a tool today. I need you now. I don't need you anymore. But we're people, we're people with our personality, with our soul. And that's why I'm surprised that for an entrepreneur like now who has 20 employees, we have to say that this is not a small entrepreneur. It is not bad that this entrepreneur would also have one positive climate in his house, which would give him a completely different dimension of one coexistence and also make painful decisions if he were to articulate them with his employees as a positive one. And I regret that with this amendment, we want to fix this or to make up for the limitations that we have achieved on the committee through the discussions. I do not understand, however, the employers' representatives for such a fragile claim that it endangers a small entrepreneur who has 49 employees, the company's exposure to this law, or the right of workers to decide slightly that positive energy is at stake in the company in order to jeopardise its competitiveness. I see it in a completely different way. That is how I spoke to this amendment - I don't know, I told the MPs to decide for themselves. I'm going to stand up to him. I also understand small entrepreneurs on the one hand, but those who have a genuine relationship to be an entrepreneur, create, also generate profits and thus enable their employees to have a positive existence for that entrepreneur, even if he has 21 employees, the interest is that internal communication and his good and bad share with his people in the house, so I will oppose the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I see you still want to discuss it? That's why I'm opening the second round. Please sign up. Madam Minister, you with your hand, if you'd like a word. Thank you very much. He has the first word again, Mrs Pečanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you very much. My question to my colleagues and colleagues in the SDS was given exactly the answer I expected. We have heard most of the explanations that have been written to the amendment to Article 1, which is not just me, but no one in this Chamber can convince anyone because there is no reason to believe that the only reason why 50 workers are restricted to a sole entrepreneur is that the only reason is what is written in the directive. The directive also states that the situation in this area should not deteriorate for workers, and it is understandable why Articles 9 and 10 of this Act do not change. In view of the logic of the matter, colleagues and colleagues from the SDS and NSI should then submit another amendment or two amendments amending Articles 9 and 10 of this Act. Why? Because, by introducing the limit of 50 workers to independent entrepreneurs, it means that a relatively large group of people in Slovenia, employees, should be placed in an unequal position, which is, let us be honest, so far, and I must say here that in 1993, when we adopted this law, I was there, we have already proposed that even independent entrepreneurs should not be excluded from the law, because it is illogical, because a worker with a separate entrepreneur, where 100 or 50 or 49 of them, as Mr Brenčič said in a graphic way, should not be involved in the management if workers who are equally 49 or even 10 less in the economic society, which is d.o.o. or d.d., may participate in management. Where's all this logic and common sense? There were no healthy minds in 1993, now, 2006 after thirteen years, following the European Directive, according to the experience and good practices we see in the European Union - there are many cases and there is evidence and evidence of the impact on the success of these companies where workers co-operate, where they even have the opportunity to become co-owners of these companies through different mechanisms, that the success of these companies is disproportionately greater than those where they do not have them. It has been proven and proved that in the United States, which is considered to be a typical neoliberal country, there are a lot of companies and corporations that are largely owned by workers, where workers co-operate with these companies, that their performance on the market is much higher than where workers do not have this option. Therefore, it is subject to Slovenian entrepreneurs who show themselves as small entrepreneurs who want to explain that workers work in the way when they want to co-operate with the company, that it is attracted to the hair and that we are subject to some people who simply do not want to develop an internal entrepreneurial culture where those who represent human resources within the company and those who represent capital resources within the company cannot participate in management. It's something amazing. I can't understand where you get the idea that independent entrepreneurs are something special compared to limited liability companies or companies. I see no reason; cooperatives are the same; economic institutions are the same; only independent entrepreneurs are special. And that is why you cannot convince me that you have seriously considered when you tabled this amendment, that you simply believed some of the words of some probably quite influential entities of independent entrepreneurs here in Slovenia. I believe that when you think about it tonight, perhaps, I hope, at least, that you will change your mind and that you will withdraw the amendment at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with a colleague, a colleague and a colleague! We will not support this amendment to Article 1. This is not because we think what the committee has adopted after a long and controversial debate is good. I must also say that the views expressed on the Committee by the representatives of employers are not necessarily the actual opinion and interest of employers when it comes to s.p. I have to say that an entrepreneur who has less than 20 employees told me that when his company gets in trouble, he will call the workers. And he said that he had always been rescued from the problems that were coming, because he did not notice the small things that affected him. He said if you hadn't worked so hard, the company would have burned down a long time ago to go bankrupt. They were able to agree on an extension of work for a certain period, they could agree on a few lower incomes for a transitional period, by then compensating differences and the like, while also repeatedly seeking their views in the design and planning of work and production in his company for the future. I think that there is nothing wrong with the fact that more than 20 workers' representations have been introduced and that this, as Mr Brenčič has said, can certainly mean a positive atmosphere in the developed world for preservation, for the prosperity of the company and, of course, for the benefit of workers for a longer period of time, but also for entrepreneurs for a longer term. This is how we support this and we cannot support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Once again, I would like to point out that this is primarily about us not trying to legislate the inequality of citizens before the law. It's mostly about this. And second. What colleague Žnidaršič has now said in the end, in these companies, especially when it comes to independent entrepreneurs or small businesses, is indeed teamwork with the owner, even if it is a family business, very important. And on the other hand, if there are individual independent entrepreneurs who have 50, 100, 150 employees, then listen, let's think about something else; then let's think about how one independent entrepreneur can have one activity which he has, of course, this contingent and will avoid even if he has more than 50 employees, these matters which are defined in this law on the participation of workers in management. I would like to stress once again, this is primarily about equality and I think that 20 employees are the upper limit that can still be achieved, and in my opinion we are establishing an inequality of citizens before the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I think that the debate on this amendment is one of the most important discussions at this meeting of the National Assembly. The question is whether all those who could exercise control in this country will simply be abolished. And I do not understand the republican policy of the SDS and New Slovenia, which has decided to make the most hard choice by creating an amendment. Slovenia says it will develop only by increasing added value. The added value is generated in teams. And if, of course, you think that in services of high added value they will not create this in some co-existence, good cooperation with workers, then I do not know what leads you to establish working conditions in this country. I believe and hope that one of Slovenia's great opportunities is to develop service activities and service activities with high intellectual value. And of course, these are small groups of people, ten, twenty, thirty people in different forms, including employees of, in saying, "entrepreneurs". And the argument of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia resembles that argument from the 1960s. But not in the former country, but in the '60s, somewhere in the west where all rights had to be abolished. And that's a classic Republican policy. Of course, it is most surprising when a person looks at the debate on the committee and then looks at the agreed text on the committee, that the two apparently most determined Republican-oriented political parties today fly in with an amendment, with an argument, czech, this is European. There are many other things in the European Union. Yesterday, Mr President of the Government said that it was not European to have an independent governor. It is European to have a society in which the National Assembly finds the right relationship between those who contribute to the results of an undertaking and those who must also take you into account in their work process. And if you don't give them the opportunity to participate in management, or you don't want to give them the opportunity to participate in management, I don't know what you think will create added value in Slovenia. From what? Out of conflict? Out of control? From one place to decide everything? Therefore, of course, respected colleagues from the SDS, from New Slovenia, parliamentary groups, you say, it says here, the Slovenian Democratic Party, this is pure republican policy. So change your name or imagine what kind of amendment you're coming up with and with what arguments - that it's European. This isn't European. I will, of course, reject this amendment. And I believe that it is appropriate to remain in line with the provisions, as have been agreed on by the Committee after a long debate, but not that, in other words, after everything has been coordinated, the day before the meeting of the amendment, which puts the matter back on its head. Then you'd better say that, I don't know, we're not going to have a board meeting, and just that marriage, a little bit fixed with the co-workers who do it in some of the cabinets, is going to be accepted. Please and I suggest that Members and Members of Parliament reject this amendment in the next debate and that you do not accept it in the evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you. My word, Mag. It's a waste.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Well, there are some reasons why I stopped by to discuss it. I have been identified as one of those entities that, on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, made it possible for such a Article as I consider only acceptable not to incorporate into the law the distinction between employees. When an individual seeks employment, probably in the face of all the problems faced in today's so-called flexible labour market, it is unlikely that he will consider whether he will be employed in an economic company or in a self-employed company, and thus may, in the view of certain rights, be different from that of independent entrepreneurs. But the reference to Europeanism makes me very embarrassed. I don't understand those. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u23	Can I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u24	from the President of the Government onward, citing Europeanism in their decisions and arguments. [[...]] Whether an adjective of the European Union means a geographical concept or an adjective growing from the European Union because there is, after all, at least another large association in this Europe, that is the Council of Europe, which is much more sensitive to human rights and equality before the law than to the competitiveness and economic efficiency of the European Union. Therefore, allow me to reiterate, I do not see any reasonable reason for the amendment tabled by the Members of the largest coalition party with some others, that this amendment should be supported and set a limit which is two and a half times different from what can also be found in the Company Act. So it seems to me that the insufferable ease of reasoning you come up with these things is a reflection of different views on the fundamental rights of workers and the result of a great lack of confidence in employees. I have witnessed this in every debate on the committee when representatives of various employers' associations and chambers spoke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I'm really going to be very short. Look, first of all, I wonder how many entrepreneurs there are with us who have 50 or more employees. I'll find out very little. Secondly, why such a proposal - so that those - the majority who have fewer than 50 entrepreneurs - would like to silence workers, which is perfectly logical, do not want complications. The employer doesn't want complications, the employer doesn't want complications, the employer has 20, 30 people, he says, you be quiet, listen and listen, if you don't, I'll throw you on the road. That's a fact. And if it were a serious intention of the amendment, in my opinion, both New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party, we could write 20 instead of 50, it would be a serious purpose. I believe that the exploitation of individual workers can take place and that every single one of them cannot "blossom" and demand some of its rights. I believe; but not give the number 50, but do not refer to the directive if we all know that companies with 50 or more are small enough to give virtually all employers the opportunity to keep the workers quiet. But if it's a social system, if it's justice, then I wonder if it's Barovich. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Since I see those who are still interested, I'm opening a third round. Please sign up. Check-in is on. Thank you very much. The first word is Mrs. Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, including the distinguished Secretary-General of the Ministry. As far as I can recall, we have adopted an amendment to Article 1 on the home working body. At that time, a respected government representative, despite the warnings of some of the different professions or institutions that were present at the time, that the independent entrepreneurs were not only in this context, but then you said, "Yes" vehemently, and that was also supported by your representatives - SDS, Nova Slovenija. I think at least one of the members of New Slovenia objected to the committee and you hit! He's also a member of his own. You're restricting today. However, I would like to hear your opinion, because you have so vehemently advocated the inclusion of independent entrepreneurs in Article 1 of this Act. Be so honest. The law was being corrected on the work of the mother. I don't know if you know what you're doing or if you're writing and accepting laws. Be so honest and explain why such an attitude is found on your parent’s working body, and 14 days later you have a different attitude.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you. The word has magic. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u30	I would like to add to my debate earlier only that I would like to hear the opinion of the Government. I would also like to hear the opinion of the Government, which, in saying, first of all to the National Assembly, and then in the debate itself "proposed" something completely different. And I would like to hear the Government's opinion why what Members of the ruling coalition are proposing is necessary. Why is this something that Slovenia must place so firmly, and what interests lead you here? Is it true that only private entrepreneurs run Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings for me, too. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think we should look back a little in this debate. And I'll do it myself. Independent entrepreneurs or, better said in the former system, privateists, craftsmen, in short, some non-diggage, are the segment of our economy, which has always been the focus of some pressures, some neglects, both by official institutions and by the social system itself. Respect doesn't get until the '90s, and after that, and at a time when big systems, once our pride, collapsed, fell like dominoes. At that time, we were saved by those who, at the time, were independent entrepreneurs after 1993, were actually saving our jobs or picking up the unemployed, the ones that were put on the road by the collapse of industrial giants. There have also been many who have become individual entrepreneurs from an impossible situation. Their business result is the success of good governance and the awareness that they are responding with all their assets - let us not forget this, with all their assets. Those who managed to reach from one, two, five, ten employees to a larger number of employees certainly had not only in mind, I say, even in the subconscious that only a satisfied worker can produce satisfactory, good results. And without any legal definition or compulsion, they were able to ask workers what they wanted after what they wanted, after what they expected, even after possible development, after improvements. In short, they're communicating with people today, without any coercion, I'm sure. Of course, there are also some of them that have become independent entrepreneurs because they have just been given the opportunity to take advantage of it, and in doing so, clearly, workers have also drawn briefly, as with all the other d.o.o.s and industrial giants, in short, in all of this. This is just a normal business cycle that happens today when some companies die, others are born, in short, this cycle is constantly spinning. Once again, any rape with some legal changes is unacceptable to an individual's independent entrepreneur. We have just decided and found that the solution proposed in the amendment is the extreme limit that is still acceptable, given our particular emphasis on the specific Slovenian situation. And I will, of course, support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u34	First, he's replicating a fellow Squirrel. New Slovenia certainly cares about how workers feel or how they will fare in the future in our country. We've also made public criticism of the union on several occasions. We even have a working relationship within the party itself, because we believe that this area will need to be taken into account more systematically in the future. Of course, we oppose the abuse of political representation of workers, which we have experienced over the past 60 years. The amendment, which actually legitimizes a border in the sense of an order, does not prohibit it, must be understood differently from a law that prohibits something with a border. This amendment, which sets out some proposal, some number, has to be taken - of course, why exactly 50, we can ask why not 40, why not 60. It's always a dilemma when you're setting boundaries. However, from the practice and life of representing workers, both issues must be taken into account, rights and adequate incentives for workers, as well as, clearly, the economic efficiency of businesses. We know that Europe is increasingly in a global pot of exceptional competitiveness, and if it is too busy dealing with how someone in the company feels, then it can lose everything. That's why we have to set a limit on life. On my own, I can say that I am not a specialist in these matters, and I believe that 50 are the limits where the management of a company can still normally communicate with workers without the need for a special structure. But if he needs it, he can set it up! This amendment does not prevent this, but only forces those who have more than 50 workers to establish a structure that allows the representation of workers and includes them in systematic information and consultation and so on. That is why I believe that the words of those who oppose the amendment were still a little harsh. I will repeat once again, it is not a restriction that prohibits something, but a limit or number that commands something, and it does not therefore prohibit those who consider that in some systematic way the representation of workers in their companies could be enforced even if such an amendment is adopted. I would therefore suggest that we try to limit ourselves and argue perhaps with a number, whatever. Someone said 20 before. 20 also needs to be justified. But as I said, I hear from the workers myself other problems, in substantially larger companies in Slovenia, where we should have adequate representation now, this issue obviously does not work very well. And I think that this law is also somewhat correcting this issue in those companies where there are really problems and where trade unions have long failed to perform their functions, but are mainly concerned with their promotion and promotion of certain political ones, I don't know, I think there are many mentalities, but not so many for workers' rights; those who themselves can't help themselves and who are condemned to some place of residence and to those jobs that are possible there. Therefore, in this amendment alone, I do not see any radical, so-called republican policy, but some compromise, while Europe and Slovenia must go with it urgently, into a competitive economy and at the same time, clearly, must take care of communication with those who create this added value. They're workers. And in my opinion, 50 is an acceptable limit. If it was 10 up or down - fine. Or if there were very strong arguments based on some clear analysis, why a lower number or a higher number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Kokalj, I understood your performance as a debate and not a replica. Because you can't replicate because you haven't discussed it yet. It's okay. But he's got a replica now. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you very much. That's what the Rules of Procedure is, not because the vice president is anyone. Look, I welcome the fact that it has just been said that work - I add of course with capital - creates added value. I repeat to those who say that there are such specific situations in Slovenia that it is necessary to go differently, on the other hand, than those countries in Europe that are looking for consensus in society. And that's a fundamental question. The fundamental question is whether we will maintain a just society in Slovenia. And if we are to have a just society, we must have a just society with those entrepreneurs who have under 50 workers. And that's all this is about. You're just saying, a fair society - yes, but only for those workers who are not employed in, say, "entrepreneurs" who have more than 50 employees. It just doesn't work. The constitutional provisions on co-management rights, European standards, should apply to all in a just society, but of course the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy can be achieved in other ways. I'll give you a sample now, because of your decisions, you'll close up a factory where co-management is in place that could do some military armament. And now intermediaries with 5-6 employees will buy components from entrepreneurs with less than 50 employees. And I want to know what this fair society is going to be like when you put hundreds of Korošks on the road, and then you're going to earn 5-10% in the narration, as the gentleman said last time, with "hard-earned mediation". That's what this is about. And I replicate to those who are talking about the specific situation in Slovenia. In Slovenia the situation is nothing different than anywhere else in Europe, the only difference is that in Slovenia currently s.p. They're in control of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u37	Please calm down. The replica was a replica. I don't think it went beyond the frames. Mr. Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! As today, we can often monitor the interviews of successful managers, successful entrepreneurs, in fact, I do not know anyone who does not put human resources at the top of the list. What do these messages say? These messages certainly speak of the fact that the treatment of human resources in the company is, in fact, a key element of the success of a company. And dealing with human resources in a company certainly means talking. Discussions and participation in how it is managed and how it is, of course, handled in the company. Of course, the roles are different, but certainly they are spoken in a way of partnership in involving employees in important decisions. That is what successful managers tell us, which we can actually read in interviews on various occasions. We have recently replaced the Minister of this Ministry, namely the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, who was unable to conduct dialogue; who could not conduct dialogue between partners in order to make successful decisions. And today we have a sample example of how to communicate to businesses how these relations will be regulated between individual actors. And it is surprising that this ministry once again advocates non-dialogue. So, creating a difference between those who should necessarily cooperate. I hope that this practice will not continue in this ministry, but this law speaks for itself. Many of the comments made by the partners who should be actively involved in the drafting of this law are certainly about the absence of this dialogue again. And this way of doing things is also tolerated among those who will have to make sure that business decisions are the best. And we are again faced with a way of thinking that workers want something bad, employees in companies want something bad and hinder businesses from developing them, as if people didn't want to secure safe jobs, as if workers didn't want to provide well-paid jobs and climate in companies that would be pleasant. There's a lot about "mobing" today. About the mobbing, about the psychological pressures at the workplace. Of course, this is not a pleasant climate, and even today, when we arbitrarily make decisions with 50 employees that some will not be able to participate in information, in cooperation, it seems to me that conduct is wrong. I've always been against having to have some mailboxes in companies where workers can make their own proposals. No, the wrong form of communication, because there were then no links between the management of the company and the employees so that they could successfully coordinate proposals, initiatives that were primarily intended to create the company's performance. It is therefore again important for us to reflect on what has already been coordinated on the parental committee, to continue this direction and, of course, not to support this amendment, which is here at the table today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Petan to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! That I had answered, I was tempted by the thinking of our esteemed first-class colleague when he said that the arguments of the Chamber of Commerce from the 1960s all explained how it was then presented. But I certainly want to say that the arguments of the Chamber of Commerce are irrelevant. We could also say that we so understood that in the Chamber of Commerce, which represents the interests of its membership, they do not know what they are doing, they do not know what is good for them. And that's what I was born to ask myself, how can someone think that in the Chamber of Commerce they don't know what's good for their members, because they don't have parachutes there, but they're all those who have capital, so they're all united in this Chamber of Commerce. They have employees and they know what they have to do every first time they have to provide work for all these people, and then pay first for all these people, and not just for one month, but they have to think in advance. And you say they don't know what's good for them. You know, if you're 49, I'll stay at this border, 49 people, you'll have to work harder every day and more than 8 hours a day, so you can get these workers a job first and then give them a salary. It's not easy. I don't know if you have contact with these people or not, so just say they don't know what they're saying or that their arguments are from the '60s. Excuse me! Allow me to read you their argument that "it would be appropriate to take into account the many specificities of independent entrepreneurs. The independent entrepreneur shall answer in person with his entire assets for the business and activity in which he invests exclusively. It is usually about companies that do not have their support services, such as personnel, legal, large secretions and the like." "The problem in setting this threshold is also highlighted by Directive 2002/14 itself, which in the spirit of European law and guidelines on small and medium-sized enterprises in the preamble of point 19 provides that the aim of the Directive is to avoid any administrative, financial and legal restrictions that would impede the establishment and development of small and medium-sized enterprises and therefore recommends that the Directive be applied to employers who employ at least 50 workers." That's not by any chance the 50 is chosen. I would also mention that because I mentioned a respected first-class colleague, if you insult us already here on your right, that we are Republicans, and I don't know what we are, but you think that in that negative sense, so at least it sounds from your words, then I can possibly understand that you're insulting us, colleagues. However, I do not understand that, indirectly, when you state that the arguments in the 60s are the case, you are also contradicting the owners of this capital, who are trying and hiring workers. But I just don't understand how easy it is to define them as ignorant. Of course you know everything. Moreover, it is only by the way - against the conclusion - that a satisfied worker is the one who has a job, a regular job that has a regular salary so that I do not list everything else. This must be provided by the owner of the capital, of course the owner of the s.p., but the rest would be that, first-class gentleman, if you could say that it is from the 1960s. It's work and pay. In addition, I would like to remind you whether you may have heard anything about the move of jobs to Asia. In addition to a just society, which, of course, is our goal, also ours, I agree with you, but very little counts for competitiveness. And the Asia I mentioned, I mentioned just because of the competitiveness. This, however, has to do with work, a regular salary, which is a condition for a satisfied worker. I don't know if it's appropriate to mention that you're not very strong in these positions, because in one month you're going to change your position. Today we can hear how you replaced the minister covering this area, but as far as I can remember, it was the ones you mentioned today that you were defending the minister at the time, if I remember correctly. Then you must remain in the same position. I do not claim that one or the other position is correct, just in one month to change the position around and around, and this is also not right to sword a bad light on your credibility and in your claims. That's what you say, you could say, like the wind blows, like it suits me, but that's my point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Only two reminders or two wishes. First, try to stay within the amendment. The debate went wide. And secondly, be aware that the perception of adjectives is subjective, so try to use them with as little emotional or other charge as possible. The replica has a mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you very much. First of all, there's obviously a misunderstanding. I did not speak of the views of the Chamber of Commerce as the positions of the 1960s, but I spoke of the development of companies with many conflicts in the 1960s, which led then to a number of co-management arrangements, particularly in Scandinavian countries. What a colleague of the first class has explained is a completely different understanding of society. I was talking about that I believe that Slovenia can only progress if we create a high added value. However, a high added value is no longer created in the way that the capital owner finds work and brings it to work in the morning. No, no, no. A high added value is generated in service activities by all 10, 20, or 30 operating on the market, or in their service activities, in agreement with the owner, each business operator is usually rewarded and wants to co-operate, participate in the work. You know, the difference is that I understand that in Slovenia we want to build a just society in which we will create a high added value. Sometimes I thought you wanted to create Slovenia doo.. but now I see you want to create Slovenia sp. And this is the problem of amendments and what is expressed through, we call republican policy again. It's a classic Republican policy. Give the capital as much as possible, which means lower taxes for the richest possible, workers and those who co-create, rights and then control. You need to be monitored so that someone doesn't happen to meet. This is a non-free society, this is an unfair society and I hope that we will primarily build up what is good in Europe, but not because it is supposed to be competition from Asia - and this competition from Asia is - and you are not resisting competition from Asia by reducing the rights of workers, but by creating conditions for people to create higher added value. This is not by limiting rights, but by co-management as a way to find better solutions for the work process. Have they already heard that in more serious companies, it is the purpose of co-management mainly to find internal reserves, to find better forms of work, because those who own capital and are looking for business around when you say they come to work in the morning, just don't know where the potential shortcomings are. Well, and Mr. First Class, obviously you misunderstood me, fair company is not a society. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u43	It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u44	I'm concluding. is not a society in which anyone who thinks otherwise is controlled. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, what I'm going to say first is that I'm sorry that they didn't process this thing on the working body, on the committee, sit together in time, find one optimal solution, and they would have prepared these things there, coordinated them, and probably made the work quite easy for the National Assembly. Unfortunately, this has not occurred, with some delay, and last but not least in the coalition of this consensus, and this is not the best practice to deal with the amendments we have today in the National Assembly. So little criticism for everyone, one and the other. Another of my views on what has already been said in the National Assembly is that I do not think that this amendment is very damaging to the Slovenian entrepreneur. Good, successful, well knows how to communicate with workers, how to achieve good results, gain to pay their employees successfully, this number 50 or 20 or 60 or, in my opinion, what is not quite affected. He knows well how to use his work to reach his goal. But not everyone is like that, but they are different, and for those we probably try to set some boundaries. I don't think there's been an analysis of 50, or is that the optimum number that would give [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And that's the one sitting there drinking water. [[...]] It probably wasn't, it was a little finger-to-toe, maybe in cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce, a certain number has been set that says something about a border that could have been here, but not yet. But that doesn't mean so much to me, but it's more important to me that this question, which I think may be important for some, is a pity, and I'm sorry that we haven't harmonised it in time and properly, but I do know that from the practice of life, that the number 50 can be real, it can't be, but I won't judge it now. Once again, it is important to me that we set the framework, but the Slovenian entrepreneur will do well in this framework. And I don't mind that Slovenia has a lot of sp., thank God it has them and this is good for Slovenia and this is added value for sure. And these small businesses know, control very well, and not least if anything happens to anyone who has 20, 30 employees is not as bad as the one who has 500 and more employees. And from this point of view, I would like more s.p.s in Slovenia and it is quite good that society has this, because the practice of the environment from which I come has saved Slovenian unemployment and added value and economic growth. And this is what Slovenia can do with pride and satisfaction, and I hope that there will be many more of them in the future, and the country needs to help them here, to stand by, not to make problems on this path, to give positive legislation and to enable them to develop even faster and better, and they know very well how the business is done, and we will not teach them, certainly not, because they themselves are better at this than we are in the National Assembly. That's why around this number, I don't think I'm going to be stabbed so much, whether it's 20 or 50, because we're not going to restrict one or the other, because a good Slovenian entrepreneur won't be bothered by 20 or 50 or 60, but the thing will go as well as it should, in the interest of his business, his income, his profits and, finally, the respect for the legislation we adopt in the National Assembly, and he will follow it, and we can stand by and help him as a society to be successful. That's why we're more critical of my introduction, why we didn't get it in time, before the National Assembly meeting, on the board of the working body itself, along with the coalition and the matter today would be significantly easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you very much. You probably don't have a replica, Mr. Brenčič. A replica? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you very much. See, the body of work is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, where different arguments, different documents and different views must be articulated. And as chairman of this working body, I have made a strong provision at this meeting, my colleague Janc, that all of this has happened, even so I have acquired a label that I want to privatize this law or that I have a special sympathy for association in the world of workers, but, after all, also on the working body, it is necessary to make a decision on the basis of different views, long debates! And we have accepted it, and by article 1, the working body has taken up such a substantive relationship as is borne by the amended proposal of the law. There was nothing else we could do on the working body, and I say that we have conducted the debate very properly and comprehensively and that we have complemented the proposal of the law, in my opinion as President, in the sense that the law is better, better in terms of its purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Strovs, Secretary of State, asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u50	Your Honor! Several times earlier, the Ministry and indirectly the Government have been mentioned in relation to this amendment to change their position. In doing so, I must say that it is the duty of the Ministry to ensure that our acquis is brought into line with the European acquis. We must therefore follow the Directive on the consultation and cooperation of workers in management; and here we have identified some shortcomings regarding independent entrepreneurs who were not previously covered. The original solution was that we said that these duties should apply to all individual entrepreneurs. However, the Directive allows for a broad framework and even recommends that these forms of formal cooperation of workers in the management of undertakings with at least 50 employees be determined, or for establishments with more than 20 employees. It is appropriate to take this recommendation into account and therefore the Government supports the amendment given to the two groups of Members. In doing so, I must say that the law, as it is written, also by limiting that it is applicable to all, including criminal provisions for independent entrepreneurs with at least 50 employees, is considered an obligation in cases of conflict. However, if employers and workers in smaller companies find that it is a common interest to consult to participate in all specific issues, then this law does not prevent them from doing so. And everything we've heard about this before about good wages for cooperation between employers and workers is true. With only the threat of punishment, which is stated here and also so small, and with the threat of judicial proceedings, we impose on every employer to take the initiative of workers to require formal participation in supervisory authorities only in cases of independent entrepreneurs with at least 50 employees. For others, it would be too much of a burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much. And Mr. Horvath. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that there are still a lot of reserves in our country regarding the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Of course, all those who are sitting here, including those who are missing for any reason today, are, of course, responsible for the development of such companies with an appropriate legislative environment. I mean, and I'm sure there's still a lot of work to be done here. It is in the area of small-scale enterprises that we see great potential for creating universal prosperity in the Republic of Slovenia. The development, prosperity of the company, whatever, must also be based on the partnership between the employer and the employee. If there is no real partnership here, if you want a friendly relationship, then there is no "opportunity" that this company will make progress in a developmental sense. Of course, the formal forms of this relationship are enshrined in the laws. Much more important, however, is the informal form and smart employer, the smart manager, the smart owner of the company, will also use them to a large extent. In this way, the healthyness of the company is created, and if it is on a sufficiently high level, then such a company is not to be feared. Directive 2002/14 of the European Union, which has been read at least twice today, lays down minimum conditions for the exercise of the right of workers to be informed and consulted; this is, of course, applicable to undertakings in the territory of the Member States. There was a lot of talk about independent entrepreneurs. If I may, Mr Vice President, perhaps just a few words in this regard and perhaps on an emotional basis; I myself have spent my youth as the son of a craftsman. It must be said that in those years when I was young, the craftsmen were, and their families were, an urgent social evil. As for the scholarship, I got fired before I knocked on the door. But thank God, times are different, we are in the European Union today. I'm sure there's some of that thinking, some of that mental content that's left, but it's going to be gone soon. The creation of a labour council, to be said, is also followed by a number of employers' obligations relating to the functioning of the labour council and to the rights of members of the labour council. This is normal to bring additional burdens on employers, which is directly contrary to the proposed reforms, which are expected to go in the direction of administrative and cost recovery. Once again, I would like to highlight what the fellow Member, Mr Kokalj, has highlighted. Nowhere in this amendment and in this law, the employer will not be allowed to establish labour councils or any other structure, even if he employs 5, 10 or 20 workers. Here is a threshold of 50, which seems acceptable to us in the New Slovenia Group, followed by a European directive, European thinking, and I now predict that we will support it unitedly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Because I see a few more raised arms of Replica, Mr. Petan, will you wait for the next round? [[...]] Okay, I'm reopening the application, round four. Please sign up. Thank you very much. The first one is mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you very much. My question to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is very simple: what have you been doing for two years? 29.1.2007 was the amendment transmitted and you are now saying that you support this amendment. Why didn't you put this solution into marriage? And then we would discuss perhaps in a general debate about this so-called European solution. No, you give someone, under the terms, a "general" solution, and then a minute before the twelfth to avoid a serious discussion that there are obviously only two parties within the government and not four, you give and support the amendment. I would like to see, Mr Secretary of State, a written decision by the Government supporting this amendment. I speak as a member of the opposition. If a member of the ruling coalition hopes, he would define this wish by written request, because it would be very funny that you speak here on behalf of the Government now, as only two members of the group have said. That's, I think, quite a bit of news. That is why I would like to see that opinion as a member of the opposition. However, if I were a member of the ruling coalition, not of the two parties, I would even ask the President of the Government to do so in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Ljublješek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I myself am not a member of the committee that addressed this issue, and I believe that the debate on this committee has been constructive. I am listening to this debate today, and I also want to express my position and opinion because I have quite a bit of experience in the economy and in working with people and in the management of businesses and in self-government. I am surprised how many words and criticisms on the motions for this amendment from some colleagues who are wise, how this amendment will reject, make it impossible for the company to succeed if the workers are not involved in the management. And I hear that from colleagues who have never been employed in any company that has no experience. The success of the company, including the small sp., depends also on a variety of other things than co-management, what the entrepreneur strategy is, how it is developed, how it is flexible and how it responds to changes in the market, how leadership is capable and how motivated employees are. Motivation, however, has several ways, first and foremost, of what is the pay, what are the working conditions, how workers are involved in continuous business improvement processes, including a small business. What is the innovation of employees and how workers and employees are rewarded for this and other things. The owner of the company - the independent entrepreneur who sets up all his assets for this company - is most interested in getting the employees as motivated as possible. And if he thinks so, he'll include them in management. And this amendment, which I understand, means that it is legally prescribed above 50, that it is prescribed by law, and under 50 it will consider whether it is necessary to include them in co-ordination. And in a number of cases, the blue entrepreneur will do so. And here we can ask ourselves, where is the limit and the number that would make you, those criticisms that you object to, satisfactory? Is that 40, 30, 20, or would you be happy at 10? Or would you also say that these 10 are placed in an unequal position. And as I understand it here, it's a limit of 1 to 50. And now let's compare this extreme case when we have on one side an entrepreneur, an owner who sets up all his assets for this company, and on the other side a worker who co-operates and is paid. This is an extreme case. I would therefore expect more wisdom, more logic and less political manipulation in this debate. I expect it from my colleague, he's gone right now, and I'm giving him the opportunity to replicate that after the end of his term, he's going to set up his own company, pawn all his assets, and realize what he's saying today.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljublješek, but only I can give the replica. Mr. Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I welcome everything! At this point, I objected to the adoption of the amendment on the Committee, which lifted all the limits on this matter. I would point out once again that this amendment must be supported as a matter of urgency. Number 50 or 40 - it's not that important. It seems to me that if the number or limit were to be 10, it would be possible here to solve or put in a normal position at least 40, 50 or more percent of these small sp. and employers. We know that here most family companies have 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7 employees. Those who have 50 are already quite large companies. I stress that we live in Europe, live in the world, and that we cannot and must not adopt such laws that would make our entrepreneurs who work for this market less competitive and prevent them from staying competitive. If this law had been enforced without restriction, this would have resulted in a huge amount of administrative costs, a huge amount of unnecessary work, and this would probably have caused the collapse of a number of companies due to these complications that would have led to this law. It is normal and I always point out that every smart entrepreneur or factory owner is interested in co-managing workers in the business process because simply more people know and always have to look for ideas and it is possible to get the most innovative proposals from workers working in direct production or in the production process to improve the performance of the business. I think that everyone will use this and in some way involve their workers in these processes and also reward them adequately for their work. I think that this law must have this limitation, that Europe regulates it in this way and it also has this limitation. If this had not been introduced, however, they would have caused enormous problems to large numbers of small businesses and caused many such irreparable consequences or closures of such small establishments. Thus, I do not object to the fact that workers participate in management, but the fact is that we cannot legalise this in such small enterprises, where this would lead to a significant deterioration in the competitive capacity of these companies and make their business impossible. The fact is that we have to listen here somewhere more to those who represent these interests, earlier said, the Chamber of Commerce, probably that is the interest of others. However, it would probably be unfair to adopt such a law without such restrictions. On the Committee itself, we have adopted this article, that there is no restriction, this amended amendment. However, if this amendment had already been in the debate itself, it would probably have been the comments of all, chambers and also direct entrepreneurs, owners of sp. Therefore, I think it is essential that the amendment that is now being tabled support this restriction and thus ensure the normal conditions or competitive capacity of our small enterprises, which we still need if we are to achieve greater economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Petan to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very brief. But I think there's something else I should say. In virtually every debate, it comes to saying so for once, but the profession says so. The profession in this case, when we're talking about sp, I can't imagine that the second is the Chamber of Commerce, I think the Chamber of Commerce. They're professional in this case. They are responsible for those workers who are employed and, of course, also respond with all their assets, as I have read to you before. That is to say, they are here in any case professional and this profession is true and they also refer to the European Directive 2002/14, which has set the limit of 50. However, this law does not limit anything, but if anyone wants to, he can have less. That's not limited, and I think that's good. And if we talk so much about the profession, why don't we respect the profession today? I am sure that in the countries of the European Union or as the institution itself, the European Union has accepted 50 that they have probably had some experience, some practice that we do not have. We are building such a system even less time than the countries to which we refer. I'm sure we can't have that much experience. And if they set a limit of 50, they certainly had an important reason and we are today discussing it as if they were dilettarians and we have virtually all the experience and we can teach them, they can learn from us. I'm not going to argue that this 50 is really the right one, it could be 65, it could be 35. However, we are somehow implementing European legislation; we are also somehow referring to the European Directive on European Directives, and the European Directive is such - 50 and the profession, as I say, in this case is the Chamber of Commerce. Does this mean that we somehow want to run over a professional? Those aren't my words, I'm just repeating what we've heard many times in the National Assembly, so I apologize to those who might be hurt here. I'm talking about practice in the National Assembly, that's all. The profession says so. As for the constant reflection on this and the demands, whether the Government has written assurances that they have accepted it, I would like to say the following. 129. Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure states: amendments to the draft law may be tabled by Members, a parliamentary group - also means several groups of Members - an interested working body and a government when it is not a bill-maker. This Rules of Procedure is in accordance with this or this amendment is tabled in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, so to speak, there is no need to have any written assurance that the Government has discussed this and I do not know what it is. This would also be annihilation of the rights or obligations that we Members have, and I do not know why we keep doing this. That is why I have also read this because I am listening to this in every session over and over and over, and I do not know why someone would deny me the right to table an amendment as a member of the parliamentary group, so that this would then be invalid and that this Government should still have some signatures so that it would discuss this amendment because it is not necessary. For the Rules of Procedure are clear and all is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First Mrs. Pechanova, then Mag. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I'd like to turn to a few colleagues in the replica. In fact, when we talk about the profession, about this problem of restricting the rights of co-management or of cooperation in managing more workers with active electoral rights in the company, it should be noted that we cannot always talk about the profession when we are talking about employers' associations, because it is essentially employers' associations when we are talking about the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. In addition, it is not a Chamber of Commerce where all independent entrepreneurs who employ more than 10, 20, 30, 50 or 100 workers unite. This is not just a Chamber of Commerce; we need to know that strong industrial companies, namely 100 employees or 50 employees or 30 employees, can already mean more than ten million annual realisations in the type of production they are making. We can't talk about craft here when it comes to manufacturing. And in the store, for example, we have companies that have under 50 employees who are not members of the Chamber of Commerce. I think it is a more important profession in this case when we are talking about the results of the cooperation of workers in the management and influence of this cooperation in managing the company's business success. Or, if not, the impact on the fact that the owner of the company makes bad business decisions and workers can prevent it because they too or they also know a lot about how the company is managed and how it is managed. However, we cannot discuss that the only thing that pleases the worker and motivates him in the workplace is pay and regular work. Don't talk nonsense to me, for God's sake! A man who is not satisfied with his work, with what he creates, and can also help to create a good business success of the company in which he works, is a real motivation, not that he has a higher or smaller salary. Please! You speak as you did during wage relations, when all the workers were happy to get enough money to survive their ten-member families, and they had to go to work children, wife, great-grandmother, great-grandfather, and I don't know who else. How can you speak like this, as if co-management has a negative impact on the company's competitiveness? Where did you get that information? So far, all data on employee participation in management shows that companies that allow workers to manage are more successful, have better profits and also have more competitiveness in the market.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u63	Three minutes have passed, Mrs. Pecanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u66	Of course, Members and especially Members of the Coalition of Slovenia have the right to make amendments, which can be as different as Members think, which is interesting here, other groups of Members who form a ruling coalition. Therefore, it makes sense if the ruling coalition wants to rule with all four parties to coordinate on this. This is the so-called ease of the Coalition of Slovenia, how you will exercise your will in the National Assembly. Secondly, this ease also reflects this debate that the Chamber of Commerce is professional. Excuse me! This is about a conflict between owners and employees. That's what you're saying. The Chamber of Commerce is professional. This is the Chamber of Commerce representing the owners, and this is one side of this interest. The other side is the interest of the workers. And by that logic, I'd say they're trade unions. No, that's not the point. There's no profession. Everyone represents their own interests. In the National Assembly, however, we must take into account the interests of both and find the right solution in the way we knew it in Slovenia until now. And in Slovenia we have established one basic lever for development by creating consensus to find a solution in society. That is why we already had a law in 1993 and, of course, we adopted consensus in other areas, and the difference is that you now feel that consensus is not necessary and that you, of course, with political power in this mandate, put everything on your head. I would like to know who, after the end of this term, will need to establish such or other companies. I have already worked in several companies, in the most capitalist companies, on those sides of the meadow, and I can tell you, we also managed employees there, because otherwise we could not produce good results, and this is something we are aware of.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Starman, you can't replicate Mrs. Pecan because it was a replica. So I suggest you wait for another round or replicate one of the debaters. You can talk to Mr. Squill because he's discussed it before. God help, the Rules of Procedure also allow for such, if you can say in the pronunciation, "tricks." Mr. Starman, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be very brief. The fact is, I was talking about competition, about reducing competitiveness due to such laws, and I would just like to justify it. The fact is, if in a company, a small company, as I said, we have to comply with this issue, we have quite a lot of sanctions if we do not offer conditions to the employee representative, we do not report and all of these matters. And if a group member prepares or wants to destroy a company, we give him the tools to do so by means of this law. That's true and that's a fact that's undeniable. And once again, I stress that the management of workers is allowed in smaller companies, but it is not legally or strictly necessary and each will decide how and in what way. But I know, for 30 years, I have worked in a self-government system, in a different, para-state system, one way or another, but management is usefully needed, but there must also be limits here. I think that this article and this amendment are correctly laid down that the limit of 50 workers in the company and from there to there can be decided individually as they wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, who are you going to replicate? Because you can't afford Mr. Starman, so I really suggest we wait another round.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u70	To Mr. Petan's question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u71	You can do that. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u72	To speak with such arguments here, there is at one time an interest association. What are trade chambers, chambers of commerce as interest associations, so that they can be effective interlocutors, in particular state bodies. To say all of a sudden that the Chamber of Commerce is professional in this regard is not true. The Chamber of Commerce here acts only as an interest association representing its members. The same is true of one of the other social partners, but something else. To develop the thesis from this law and also the question of this Article 1 that employees are those who are somehow deliberately destroying the company and, on the other hand, it has been made clear that entrepreneurs are one sacrament in this society. My dears, that is not true. Therefore, it is also necessary to impose legal fees in the law for the abuse of those who want to destroy the company, as well as those who understand their employee as a piece of bricks. That is why we have several appeals to our committee every day and to seek the help of people who have become completely powerless. And the president of the National Assembly himself in this strange atmosphere can see that he cannot understand that something like this is happening to people in companies in the 21st century. And that's the truth. And with that kind of truth, we have to operate when we're normatively enclosing an issue that we want to solve.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac, I can finally give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I must say that more than the amendment itself, which I will not support, I am concerned that the Government was preparing the law, so it was understood from the words of the Government representative without knowing the contents of the directive. Because you are now talking about this directive to support these amendments, even though you have previously supported another solution. It's sad and unacceptable and it's "poor" excuses. As for the Slovenians teaching someone in Europe, I think it's time we taught someone something. I will not dare say that we must imitate everything and that somewhere in Europe everyone is smarter and we must follow them. Some words were also about commandments and prohibitions. That command is not a prohibition that a command may permit something. The command from one point forward allows something to happen, but it forbids something from going back. You only know ten well, for you government clients, perhaps important orders that forbid something. So don't talk about commands that allow. They're allowing it from somewhere else, but they're banning something back. So much for that. Number 50, I must say, Mr Secretary of State, I hope that this Government will do more in this area, so that it will also be from the end where I come from more than 50 or more employees will be employed. I have to say, I may come from the wrong party, maybe I don't have contact with the right people, but I really don't remember, and now I've been trying to remember, s.p. from the end that I come from, which regularly employs 50 people. It's already a giant med s.p. I really don't remember him, and I'd be very happy if anyone could tell me the case, and the donkeys in the hallway wouldn't be doing any commercials in this house. I really don't know him. I hope this government does more to make them. I also do not see any economic and legal reason for not being able to keep, pay and provide social security to 50 employees, but insists on being an individual's independent entrepreneur, because we are talking about them and they are covered by this law. To set certain thresholds, we are already somewhat accustomed to this government in the social field, and these thresholds are always at a very thin critical limit, when someone can or when something needs to be discussed, regardless of what law we are talking about in the social field today. I have to say, I will not support this amendment alone, especially because it makes sense for me to allow management even when someone or to make it easier for those who have spoken about commands and prohibitions - to enable or legally commit to those who employ fewer than 50 workers, because regardless of all else, I also do not know such a small, independent entrepreneur who will hire three people, and he will say, "The law allows me not to allow it to happen to you, but you do, because I am so "fine" and okay. Do not close your eyes, you know for yourself that there are no such independent entrepreneurs, even if they were themselves in the role of such a owner, such craftsmen, would probably do the same and would not allow themselves to be fooled by the property you are responsible for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr State Secretary has entered the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u76	All I have to say is that the directive leaves a wide range of 1 to 50 workers. And each country, in its own legislation, decides whether or not to impose this right on workers, will impose all employers regardless of the number of employees. Of course, this decision is linked to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u77	Mr. Secretary of State, I'm sorry your time is up. Is it still time? Then there was obviously something wrong with computer technology. Do you still have time, Mr Secretary of State, to continue or wait?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u78	I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u79	I'm sorry. We'll see what was wrong. I'd like to replicate Mr. Zagorac. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u80	I think you've just said what you've forgotten before, from 1 to 50. And tell me, "Why has this government changed its mind since the matter happened on the committee until today and why have you decided to top 50, not for 3, not for 5, not for 15, for 50?" Because the directive, as you yourself have been giving, sets a ceiling of 50. How did you get that number? Except that you are used to sharpen the conditions for Slovenian citizens and Slovenian workers to a maximum of zero, where it is possible that something in this country will slip and that we can still throw around the euro coins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u81	First I'd give you the replicas. Mr. Squeakl signed up, and then Mrs. Pecanova. Please, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u82	Very short. I'm giving the pardon. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u83	Mr. Squeakle first. He signed up first. I'm sorry. Unless he wants to give you a head start. All right, ladies have priority. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u84	Yes, thank you very much. Excuse me! This replica is actually because the Secretary has spoken about exactly the things I said in the first performance. Indeed, the fact is that the directive does not speak of what the limit is, it does not set any limits. He's maximizing a limit we can't even go across. So we shouldn't put 100 workers within the law, but the limit should be up to 50 workers. That's rule number one. However, the second rule, which is very clearly stated, is not only in this Directive, but in all directives, in particular those relating to labour rights, social rights and human rights. Countries that have already had a lower limit before this Directive, a greater right or better situation for workers, for human rights, for whatever it is, do not have to – otherwise it does not say that they must not, but it does not have to be adapted to this maximum limit. And with us it's true that for me it's not. We didn't even have those boundaries because they were considered to be completely exempt, which was funny. Because workers contribute to competitiveness, performance and I do not know what else, added value, and thus any business activity, not just a company owned by more owners and having another organisational form, is a status form. And for this reason, I say that this law, Articles 9 and 10, already has a lower limit. It is said that we are going in contravention with ourselves if we adopt this provision as proposed by these two groups of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you. The word has magic. Squeak, replica, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u86	The reply to the Secretary of State, which has five arguments, in fact, I think the entire Slovenian public is completely illogical. As the government thinks about what it will save, I would like to return to what was said on the committee. On the committee it was said - Mr from the Chamber of Commerce - that this would mean in the case of 50 employees, where three representatives participate, where it is not necessary to pay 5 hours per month, one salary per year, i.e. around EUR 400. If the government is so concerned about the cost of sp., let me tell you, then consider withdrawing one of the following laws that we are going to adopt today. This law, however, says that the s.p., which will want to earn something outside of Slovenia, will have to pay 80, 90% more than they have so far to fulfil certain documents at diplomatic and consular offices. And if you have a st.p. that makes a contract, for example in Serbia, and has so far paid, under the terms of reference, for the confirmation of the 10 documents of €110, the new, Mr Secretary of State, will pay 210, 220 euros. So, what are you talking about? Is the problem now a cost, as some have said? If the problem is a cost, I believe that it is possible to reduce this competitiveness by reducing the cost of the country, and you are obviously saying that this is a problem, as the craftsmen say. No, I mean, it's not a question, it's basically that you've decided here as a government to represent the interests of S.P., let it cost you what it wants. That is why I say that it would be good to have this debate in the Government on this amendment, but not that we hear from the Secretary of State again, as we have done several times, that something is harmonised, that something is explained for several months that something is in line with the social partners, and then we have a document that this is not consistent with the social partners. I suggest that the Government seriously weighs the arguments it has, compares them and compares them with other obligations imposed by these same craftsmen and then, of course, imagines whether it is due to the good cooperation and the prevention of the exploitation of employees by those who, at times, create capital in these turbulences, but it is good that this commitment is also for businesses, etc. with less than 50 workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojbich, you volunteered for the replica. You can't have a replica because you want to replicate Mr. Brenčič, who has already replicated the predecessor, Mr. Petan. If you want, you can sign up for the debate. He is still in the debate as the last Mr Aloise Sok. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Fellow Members and Members. First of all, thank you very much for this observation, Mr President, because fellow Members under cover of the replica, the previous chairman would say with a trick, they are taking the right to speak, even though they have not applied. But those of us who have applied are patiently waiting for our turn to come. So the previous replica was completely out of the context of this amendment and was talking about something completely third. As regards the amendment itself to this Article 1. If we look at the law as a whole, of course the amendment to this article is necessary, because otherwise the law as such is inoperable. Whether the number 50 is real or not, this could be a matter of debate. I would first of all be willing to listen to fellow members of the opposition if they proposed another number. But so in some way here trying to create only an impression, if we're for workers, you're against workers, we're for their rights, you're against their rights. Such a debate does not contribute to anything, does not lead to anything, there is no added value in this except, of course, that it is being politicised as much as possible. Why is it necessary to say the number by which it is necessary to do so? Yes, for a simple reason, because this is the law that regulates the way the representative's office works. It is said how it works with the owner himself, the manager of the workers' council. And if I do a little caricature. If we have the most in this country s.p. with two employees, that means that one is the director and the other is the worker who then co-operates with the work they do together. In such small businesses, all workers are co-chaired daily. I myself worked in such a company before I was elected as a Member, and in fact, we met with the Director every day and discussed with him all the matters that were common. We were particularly interested in what the pay would be, what the working conditions would be, and if the salary would also be regular, if each month would be as agreed. Some who say that the salary is not everything is not everything, but it is most in this work process. However, if we are talking about protecting workers' rights, it would probably be necessary to activate more than the workers' world. Above all, I am thinking of a work inspection that would, say, look at how traders do business, how often they change, how many weeks they come in line - what was not respected about the referendum in this national council and where everyone who today so vehemently advocates the rights of workers has overrun the referendum will and say, holidays, weeks, people have not decided to work, because also doctors, you have to speak, and so on. If you are protecting the rights of workers, then you should always be on the same wavelength with these rights. Not when it suits you, but when it doesn't suit you, then with all the cannons over this ugly coalition that gives away some rights and so on. Mr Squeakl, who is not here now, said that this coalition has made Slovenia s.p. If I put it in my mouth, I'd say it's s.p. from this country made one another, and on Saturday it also became s.p. in its own client. So I'd ask him [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u89	Mr. Sok, please, this has nothing to do with the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u90	He has not, but look, allow him to treat us here in various ways, then he must expect to get this returned, which he says, and that you will be such as to allow all of us to speak what has nothing to do with the amendment. But I agree with you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u91	I reminded him, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u92	Thank you very much. To conclude, there's nothing else I can say. I'm sure what has been said several times that a number has to be set. I'm not gonna say 50 is the right one, it could be another. We have heard what the European Directive is saying. It is a pity that they have not already done so on the committee, because it would then not be necessary to reopen this debate here today. But as long as the law is in the debate, we can still fix it, we can finish it. So that's what it takes. However, I also agree with those, and also with the Secretary of State, who says it must be more than 50 workers, but it does not say anywhere that up to 50, it is 20, 30, 40, the manager, the owner must not do so. And I also agree with all those that a good company is only one that takes into account in the work process workers it takes into account as a condition for success and who also treats workers in this way. The entrepreneur who thinks, as Mrs Pečanova said, that we are still in that brutal capitalism where the worker can squeeze out the last drop of sweat, surely he cannot be a successful entrepreneur. And that's not what entrepreneurs are. These are, I would say, more sparrow entrepreneurs who quickly complete their entrepreneurship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The first has a replica of Mr Kumer and then Mr Brenčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. If colleagues and colleagues had followed the debate on this subject for more than half a year in the company law, when we adopted Article 703, we would have remembered the debate mainly by our Group of Social Democrats and later, when we passed the Cooperation Act and later, when we demanded that a more in-depth government take this action, which it did not promise, we would not have remembered that we proposed for micro, these small companies 20 are the limits that would still be acceptable. So you have to do a little memory-searching. You just have to be through. Thus this limit somehow exists and the directive gives from 1 to 50. Otherwise, I would like to remind you, when there is a lot of talk about these European directives, about one more. The general principle of all Directives in this respect, which recommends and recommends all Directives, that the level of rights in a country within the European Union should not be reduced. It's a recommendation not to lower it. And today we are discussing here, and we will continue with some of the other articles where you tabled the amendments, and that is exactly what we will discuss. What's the trick, what's the catch, what's the reason that this level of these built, acquired opportunities, opportunities, rights, we're lowering. In our view, of course, there are no reasons. And in the end, there's something else. Listen, this is how in policy between the parties at the state and all levels you advocate partnering, for consensus, for some national, common, social When it comes to the relationship between employers and employees - I initially said between capital and work - but you are on the side of capital or on the side of employers. [[...]] Let's also put this partnership in place here. We are proposing and talking only about this partnership because this partnership will give some positive energy and a positive vision to the economy as a whole. And I'm not going to land, I'm never going to land, by saying that if even some s.p. responds with all his assets that he can do what he wants with those who have employees. I don't know where you live, which world. But service activities, catering and so on, let's ask these people who are there employed, how do these s.p. with these people. You also had TV shows, you could see on Checked and so on what you're doing with these people.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u95	Three minutes, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u96	I think it is our duty in Parliament that, even if it is a minority, it is to protect it from this torture, which is carried out over employees or workers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok and Mr. Starman somehow got me into this kind of disgusting thinking. From all the discussions and arguments on the committee, it was understood that this limit, when an entrepreneur must also be represented by workers, was 20. I understand if a single entrepreneur is a family husband and wife and nothing else that we cannot ask of them on the basis of the legal basis of the labour force on the basis of this law. There is a need for some explanation as to what the question of this limit is. It follows from the discussion and arguments on the Committee that this limit is 20, whether on the basis of the Company Act or otherwise. Then there is a reasonable discussion that we need to stop and say something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I also replicate the Directives. Once again, my fellow Members and colleagues, I respect your work, but I am fortunate to be back in the work of European affairs for six years, see what the directive means, which laws are directly linked to European matters, which laws are indirectly bound by European laws and which laws can only, I stress, be adapted to European matters. And don't hide behind the directives. No directive in this area, as far as I know, is binding on me to examine these matters again. This directive is just a cover-up, a fictitious one, which is now covered by some law. And these directives, as far as I am aware, are not binding for the first time, so that the number 10 would not be blasphemous, but not 20 to 50. Once again, I believe that individuals are hiding behind their rights, but they do not know the obligations. I agree with you, all of you. But if we set a limit of 10, 20 that we can determine for ourselves in this law, we will nevertheless solve the problem that the amendment of New Slovenia or the SDS wants to introduce. But not to say 50, because 50 is a clear number for those companies that have 50 or more people - let's take a look at the list once! - they're not in Slovenia. That means all the workers up to 50 be quiet. This is what we want to tell you, change this amendment to Article 1 to number 10 or 20, and we will all support it. However, it is not an excuse for the directive because this law is not directly bound by European legislation. No, I can prove it. And ask yourselves, because we all live in one country, in the European Union, and we need to know at least a few laws as Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss this article and this amendment? I see you don't. We continue the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SDS and NSI groups of Members. I'm opening a debate. Please sign up. The first one has the word, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. I think that there has been a very deep, diverse discussion on this Article on the Committee, and I think it is sufficiently argumentative. And the solution adopted by the committee is, in my opinion, the solution that goes in the right direction, on the subject that I said just before - there is no reason to reduce the acquired rights of employees in the participation of workers in management. Therefore, in the opinion of the Social Democrats Group, this amendment, which has been tabled for the first time, removes the protection of members of the Council of Workers from being over-represented and so on, without the consent of the Council of Workers. Secondly, it also simply removes the obligation to obtain prior agreement from the Council of Workers in certain other areas of employment as defined in Article 67 of the Law on the participation of workers in management. Since certain directives have already been cited, it has been cited on the Committee and it is right for other Members to hear this Article 1 of this Convention, Article 135, which concerns this particular area. This Directive refers to the following: "Employers' representatives in the company must be effectively protected from any procedure that would be harmful to them, where forgiveness also includes for their status or activities as workers' representatives, or membership in the union, or participation in trade union activities, if they comply with applicable laws, collective agreements or other jointly agreed agreements, the end of the quotation. Therefore, in some way, I would appeal to the proposers of this amendment, together with the Government, to withdraw from returning to the basic text, where this amendment cancels, leaves out the possibility for the Council of Workers to give its opinion there. The final decision is always on those who drive the company. And one more parable or I'll give you one more comparison. If we allow the capital owner to influence and form a supervisory board and this supervisory board puts over most of the capital into law [[?]] an undertaking, why we do not allow the Council of Workers to speak also of whether, by the management, the management is being bullied by those employees who, in addition to their basic employment, are also performing tasks or a trade union trustee or a member of the Council of Workers. I would once again warn you that we are not writing a law for employers, but, of course, for employees. By deleting this from the text of this Act, this 4th and 67th articles, to allow the Council of Workers to give its opinion, we also give employers another instrument that allows and, last but not least, they will abuse it for such or other receptions and bullying. There have also been few examples in Slovenia recently. I wouldn't mention them, you have a lot of them in public, from forgiving union workers, from forgiving members of the world of workers who say the right things, say the right things, stand up for their coworkers and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you very much. My word, Mr. Shirco.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thank you. We asked ourselves a lot of questions, and I myself wondered why it would still be necessary in Slovenia to introduce solutions where people's security would be smaller. When the amendment was adopted on the committee, as the coalition demented today, however, it showed that there is some sense to prevent them, I will say, the possibility of bullying, interference and increasing the vulnerability of people. But given that almost every step we face with smaller tolerances, with smaller protections, it is somehow understandable that what is needed in practice is to clean up jobs and leave some security for people, logically to move into the legislative body. And that's it. This amendment, which I think is most important in this law, and will have a fatal impact on human security, will certainly also increase the work of the courts and also distort the protection of workers' rights, will most likely achieve its effects. Let's say we're looking at practice. In practice, it is true that people who are confidants who are representatives of workers in the bodies of companies that are members of the labour and trade unions councils, these people, if they hope to express their position, oppose certain solutions that they consider not good for the development of businesses and for the protection of workers, then face threats of abandonment, after discharges and threats to job loss. Let's say it's happening in Del. The examples of editors, editors who have been resolved or threatened to be resolved are precisely because they oppose the will of administrations to compromise their views. The case of an editor who, for example, opposed the appointment of a head in Del, who also opposed the purchase of Maga, was, of course, soon thereafter threatened by the removal of an editorial post, even though against the labour law that protects his role as a worker representative because he is a member of the Del press executive union. I just want to say this that cases where the consent of the Council of Workers, as set out in the amendment adopted by the Committee and now challenged by the coalition, will lead workers to be more manageable, to be more manageable, to be more subject to bullying, to be more vulnerable. This gives rise to their protection, discipline, and, as I have already said, a significant number of conflicts, as some will still have to end those problems of workers, because they will not and will not be protected by the authorities that have so far been designed for this purpose. The logic of why this is necessary, why it is necessary to reduce the security of people, why it is forgotten and sent to workers in what is called paradise, is understandable in the context of this government, but is not understandable in the context of those who believe that the rights achieved must not be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you very much. First of all, to the explanation that I think is poorly placed, this amendment. The Council of Workers or Labour Representation shall be established by law on the basis of the direct elections of those employees who have the right to vote. And then these workers only have this world of workers and their representatives. And the saints of the workers have no additional attributes such as trade unions, which give them the system as such the right of other instruments. After all, sentences. And that is what Mr Miklić, representative of the Union of Free Trade Unions on the Committee, has pointed out. And that was an additional argument why we would, after all, have, based on the law that we have given him the opportunity to speak to the employees in the title, which is suddenly to cultivate such a lack of trust in the workers' councils. At the moment, when we are already almost every other law we bring, we are somewhat constrained by expectations or even some of the fundamental rights that are expected and maintained by certain groups under the current positive legislation, especially the weaker groups of people in our society, why suddenly have mistrust and take these basic expectations. I am sure that the Council of Workers in some, including a large company, will not protect its representative, whether it is a labour director, anything if he does stupid things, if, like the previous minister on the committee, he makes a little embarrassing remarks if he burns down the company. It is unnecessary to go in with this postulate and to lower expectations, which are entirely justified if we want to implement the well-intentionedness of this institution in practice. It's not okay. I am similarly reminded of this approach to that minimum wage law when we did not have the confidence that the social partner in this regard, as a union, gives at least an opinion. And then we fixed it. That's too much. See, from an extensive material that will also be the subject of one of the future meetings of our committee, the traceability of the state of some psychological violence, which is increasingly present in our society between employees and employees by the Institute of Medicine, Transport and Sports at the Clinical Centre in Ljubljana. And it shows that it is totally unnecessary to intervene in Article 4 in the sense that it is easy for this employee to protect the law simply to reduce its pay and to somehow forgive it. Not even that. Let the benevolence of the management, the owners after the conversation, go with consent to the world of workers. This is justified in particular where large capital owners were created not through tradition, through effort, but, to this capital they came to own the company in a very simple and simple way. For them, the number of employees in the company or employees is just a tool, just a number. To this end, we in the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management must lay down a legal regulation that is a consensus. I am convinced that it is too much of a fear that some want to defend those who do not have a hearing for a company that only sees in the company of one of their employers as a malicious one. We can't do that. Let us have some positive energy, a positive inclination towards this participation of workers in management and keep Article 4 as it is. However, I recommend that everyone, without me advocating the association of the Councils of Workers of Slovenian Enterprises, who are truly the most true partner in this dialogue, read this material, which I think is written on about eight pages about Article 4. I would be more pleased to have accepted their proposal, which, at the following paragraph, also takes the employer's or the owner's defence and writes it into the law, but also what has now been added to the bill, I recommend to all of you, that we maintain this, let us also have a positive view of the holy workers, at least where the union is not, my dears. Employees where the union is not organised see the only protector of their basic labour rights, not just the bear, not just the wages, in the holy workers. Let's not waste this postulate yet, because someone who knows us, sociologically speaking, the German system, is literally going to surprise us. We'll be surprised by the late Colonel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you very much. And Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you. If we take a quick look at the amendment that we have before us and the amendment of the Social Democrats that was adopted on the Committee, we could say that, in fact, they are both committed to protecting workers' representatives. With the amendment of the Social Democrats, I have the feeling that they are advocating the absolute protection of workers' representatives, as they are also protected if they are acting in contravention of legislation, collective agreement or contract of employment. I believe that special attention is given to the protection of workers. In particular, they are better protected, for example, by disabled persons and older workers. Too much attention and debate is always about the protection of working representatives. Special protection against dismissal for members of the Council of Workers, the Labour Trustee, a member of the Supervisory Board representing workers is already regulated by the Labour Relations Act, the same as for trade unionists. It is not possible and reasonable to base different protections between workers' representatives, i.e. between trade union representatives and members of the workers' council. The adoption of the proposed amendment would also regulate the protection of members of the Council of Workers in the same way as the Labour Relations Act provides for trade unions, which makes sense. I will quote Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act, number 1: "Employers' representatives. The employer shall not terminate the contract of employment of a member of the Council of Workers, a worker’s trustee, a member of the Supervisory Board representing the employees, a representative of the employees’ council of the institution and a designated or loved union trustee without the consent of the body of which he is a member or a union, provided that he acts in accordance with the law, collective agreement and contract of employment, unless, in the case of a business reason, he refuses the offer of appropriate employment or if the termination of the employer is a matter of termination procedure [[?]] ".." Second, "The security before resignation for the persons referred to in the preceding paragraph shall last for a period of time and a year after its termination." In order not to be too long, the proposal of the Social Democrats is discriminatory to the other categories of workers compared to the members of the Council of Workers, so I will support the amendment which brings the article of the law back to the starting point, which has already been aligned with the social partners, because I do not want to see any evidence that we do not support the constitutional principle of equality before the law. And this amendment does not reduce the rights of workers. Finally, I think it is important to stress that I also strongly, stress, strongly reject the suggestion and manipulation that, through the discussions of some of my fellow Members, it is possible to understand that those who deliberately destroy businesses should be employed. And this statement goes beyond all the limits of good taste, I must say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Replica is not possible, so I'm opening another round, second round of discussion. Please sign up. Thank you very much. I invite the first to the word of Mr Veršnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. I am speaking because I do not actually see any particular issue in this amendment. Look, I've told you a lot of times, it doesn't hurt. If it is written in this amendment that a member of the Council of Workers should act in accordance with the law, collective agreement and contract of employment, there is nothing written that would not make sense. Of course, you are not capable of such excesses as Mr Petty Officer presented on the committee. But there are other possible, minor excesses, which could eventually also cause unrest among workers, if someone who is a member of the world has the opportunity to say that he comes to work guilty of disregarding safety regulations, in short, these things are possible. The amendment, which assumes that we all adhere to or adhere to the law, collective agreements and employment contracts, sees no issue in this regard. However, I was disturbed by Mr Brenčič's speech, who is the chairman of the committee, and I can say that he could still agree with his conclusions, but I think we have been too coordinated this time and argued matters on the committee itself, rather than coordinating these matters before they came to the committee in the open atmosphere, coordination as we know it in all legal proceedings. And in this case, I think we could come up with different, maybe even better proposals and not deal with this amendment, once in a while, we add, once in a while. In short, these differences would not have occurred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u112	Mr Veršnik, the working body is the one that has been called in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and there is a place to coordinate things to seek solutions and nowhere else. This is our political will and it is perfectly normal for some of the solutions to be resolved, especially on the basis of those who are more called upon to manage this country. Everything's fine and fine. But Mr Veršnik, sometimes you are and we were called the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. At that time, we had the feeling that the participation of workers in the management of the European category was also transferred as such to the well-being of society towards us. Today, we are the Slovenian Democratic Union, and we have not forgotten all the elementary things we have been building. I didn't forget that. I spent a long time in the company, below and also at the top. And as such, I'm taking the substance from the company today. And a partnership that is the basis for the success of the company between the owner, management and employees.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u114	Thank you. The point, respected colleagues and colleagues, is two words. One is the number of workers. The number of workers is that of deciding whether we have a member of the workers' council, whether we have a worker or a worker's representative. All three are a category of workers to be protected. This is missing in your proposal, now a redraft [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] two government clients. And secondly, consent. In the article adopted on the home working body, without the consent of the Council of Workers, a contract cannot be cancelled. There is no such agreement in your redraft [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u115	Time's up. Thank you. And mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u116	If, in Article 1, and the amendment, we still thought that you wanted to make Slovenia a Slovenia s.p., but here you can see that you want to make a law on the prevention of workers' participation in management with this amendment from the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the participation of workers in management. To say, as some Members have argued, there is no problem that he just has to respect what your amendment, the collective agreement and the employment contract already says, and he will not be punished, is simply a simple transfer. A member of the Council of Workers, a worker’s trustee or even a worker’s representative in the bodies of a company which does not have protection in law, that the consent of the Council of Workers is required, will be subject to compliance. It will be very easy to find a provision, an article, a contract of employment we have already heard, he has missed his job, he will come, I don't know what kind, and it will be found that, for example, he has not met the work results as he should, because, for example, he has participated in the work of the labour council and will, of course, be told that you are not in compliance with the employment contract, so of course we will reduce your salary, so we will start a disciplinary, compensation procedure. My colleague Majda said, of course, that the work and other courts in Slovenia would be burdened. It is therefore the task of the National Assembly to establish a system that will protect those elected to represent and co-operate in their name so that they can act independently. To "hope" in a rumor, as someone said, raise some difficult question. Not that they're going to be threatened because they've asked a hard question, if you do, we'll get you at pay or a contract of employment. And that's why it's a completely inappropriate comparison with union trustees. And I really don't understand you here, if this amendment is supported by the Slovenian Coalition, then here you are changing the whole content of the law. This is no longer a law on cooperation, it is a law that threatens to prevent workers from taking part in management, because everyone who cooperates and has an opinion will be punished very quickly in accordance with the provisions of the law, the article you are amending. You create a situation where in the company itself, not only in what we have talked about before, which has fewer than 50 employees, but in all companies you reduce and break the spines of those who are selected from the workers to represent them or even be appointed as representatives of the employees of the company's organs. That's what you do. And it's not democratic, it's not social-democratic, it's a classic republican policy, it's a classic republican policy. The characteristic of the republican policy, Mr Member, is that, regardless of everything, it respects the will and desire of capital. And it is the capital that concludes with the employee the contract of employment and he will assess whether he has fulfilled the contract of employment. If a member of the Council of Workers, an employee representative, has no protection in the consent of the Council of Workers, then of course it is clear what will happen. There will be no more co-ordination. It's so simple. Of course, people will then seek their right outside the company, but you know, then maybe they won't even be in the company anymore, and the court will find that, as it's called, there's nothing to judge. I don't know, ladies Members of the Slovenian Coalition, the Republican Coalition, imagine what you have written in this article in the amendment you are proposing here. Not to mention the whole story that we have a committee here to attack the chairman of the committee that is on the committee - if you look at the magnetogram - has found a good solution and has shown this solution on the committee. However, I ask the representative of the Government whether he will also be given the consent of the Government. You will receive the Government's written consent, Mr. Representative of the Government, that in Slovenia members of the Council of Workers, workers' trustees, representatives of workers in the company's organs no longer have protection in the consent of the Council of Workers. Mr. Justice Minister says we should reduce the judicial backlog. This will create thousands of new complaints that we are not talking about creating and preventing the participation of workers in the implementation and I hope that such a republican policy will be properly rewarded.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u118	That is all I want to say is that the Government's consent to the amendments of the parliamentary groups is not mandatory. Now the other thing is that in this case [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u119	Mr. Secretary of State, if you could stand up, please, for the evasiveness of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u120	The other thing that is in this amendment is that holy workers are not required by all employers. And there are cases where we have a confidant or someone who is a representative of workers in the organs of society and does not have that company of the workers' council. Then how will the consent of the Council of Workers in this case be obtained? That is why this amendment is purely justified because it leaves this dilemma. The next point in this amendment is that the international convention has practically the same text as the amendment. For this reason, at least from an international point of view, the amendment is indisputable.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u121	Yes, Mr. Squeakle, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u122	Look, Mr. Secretary of State. In particular, the International Convention says that we should write down what is in force in the law. And if in Slovenia, if you have agreed on a second reading by members of the ruling coalition as a whole, even members of the opposition, that it is reasonable to enter into the law that in cases where there is a working council, in cases where there is a conflict, it is ensured that without the consent of the world of workers, it is not possible to bully people, it is a good solution. And not now, in saying, "tell" a story. You know, if he's acting in accordance with the law, above all, it is necessary to write down who, in accordance with the law and the law, respects that he will not bully these people, and because he exists, the standard should be recorded as laid down on the committee. I'm not doing anything more than trying to defend what we've done in our second reading in the National Assembly. What you are proposing here in connection with, and the Government supports, we have heard, the two amendments, and it is significantly withdrawing from the committee's agreement, let alone the response within the ruling coalition, and the opposition clearly opposes this. And so I say, say, this is purely a republican policy and this is no longer a codecision law, this is a law on how to punish people because they will co-decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer has the replica and then Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. The State Secretary's explanation, the argument that this amendment is good to amend the original text, is that you are taking an obvious view of the creation of holy workers in as few companies as possible in Slovenia. This argument, as you put it, because you asked yourself, what about where there is no council of workers, but sitting on the board of directors of workers and so on, who will decide there, is to say that you stand for it. Once again, let us follow the majority and most of us have holy workers, and in these companies where they are holy workers, this argument should also apply to this site, if it is a labour council, then let the Council of Workers give its consent if it is not, but cannot give it. This is an argument, but not that this is why it is now changing because there is no Council of Workers in the companies. Please! This reduces the right in those companies where workers have been set up by the workers' council. In this way it is not possible to adopt legislation in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you very much. And Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u126	In this reply, Mr Secretary of State, I am disturbed by this: Article 67 to date has had this dictatorship and has been in line with all international standards and directives. Then why did he do it? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] when we implemented the basic law with European rules? [[....]] I don't understand that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Okay. Then I open another circle. Please sign up. Thank you very much. The first one has the word mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u128	Well, above all, I would like the Government to answer us what has been wrong so far and why it is necessary to punish the new people who are looking for them on behalf of the workers of justice by means of an amendment that arrives the day before the hearing of the National Assembly. Why didn't you put that in the bill? Why? Because obviously now we no longer have the proper procedure, the Government, the National Assembly, the Committee, a joint meeting, but we have some parallel channels. You do not hope to write into the law, and, of course, hoping that this will be voted quickly on Tuesday morning, you write two amendments with an explanation that has no real connection to reality, and you put into the hands of the Coalition of Slovenia. I didn't see that in any of the so-called coalition or pre-election promises for loose Slovenia. This is a very tight Slovenia. This is Slovenia, where workers' representatives will be afraid, according to the law, to say anything, because, as the MPs of the ruling coalition have said, yes, they must not create unrest in the company. Therefore, Mr. Government Representative, explain. And I would really suggest, procedurally, that the Government give us its opinion on these amendments in writing. That would be correct because you're interfering with the essence of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Secretary of State as long as there is time left.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u130	This amendment is a repetitive diction as it came in the original text of the National Assembly by the Government. The amendment amending that text was adopted on the Committee and this amendment is very similar to the text originally proposed by the Government. That is why I have no objection to saying that the Government supports this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, the replica? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u132	Mr State Secretary, if I understand correctly, the Committee, by a majority of votes - and the majority of the Committee's ruling coalition - has created a new article that preserves the existing right referred to in Article 67. Why don't you respect the board? The Procedural Government can't even draft any amendments to the Committee's amendments. We both know that. This is precisely the logic of parliamentary democracy: the government proposes, Parliament debates and decides. But you are still over just two more, no more four parties, no more Government than Government of four parties, proposing an amendment that enforces a solution which, after discussion on the working body, the committee considers as inappropriate. Disengage the boards! By this logic, stop the committees and we'll just adopt laws on Gregorčič. [[The ad in the hall.]] This is Article 4, Mr Veršnik, if you do not know what is related to Article 67 and what the Committee has agreed, the Government is changing through the Members of the two Republican parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u133	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u134	Undoubtedly, the cowboy procedure is here, even with the amendment, although we know that coalition parties are the same as the government's position that was expressed today, of course by the government's representative, but not as the government's views. But what is worth stressing today has been sold a number of harsh lies that go into denial or affirmation that this law should be in line with the social partners and that it should be confirmed in the economic strategic world. There's not supposed to be a problem here. That's not true. If that were the case, then we would not have faced so many comments, with such quality and well-founded material and with so many discussions within the committee, where those who had tried to justify their well-founded aspects on this proposal of the Government could have been allowed. That's not true, and it's not true again. Again, it is not true that it would be harmonised, otherwise, as I say, so many comments would not remain alive, of course, at present I can only live through the thoughts and expressions of us who oppose these solutions. The second thing that seems important to me is to say. We expected that the work of the minister, the new minister, would be different, that it would be more sensitive for everyone who said she would listen to them. That is not true, for if this sensibility existed, there was this obedience, then it would have been expressed differently to the law, and it would have listened to those who had apparently not listened to them before and might have taken into account, if not the other, but had a certain position. Today, there is no other position, which means that at the Ministry of Labour, it is just the continuity of some of our unappreciative views. And thirdly, what I want to say and what it is, I think Mr Kumer stressed is necessary to say. Rather than abandoning the exercise of labour law and the law, the rights of representatives in the workers' world reduce the already achieved. Instead of this, so-called immunity, if we could say in the pronunciations, "broaden" it narrows it down. But I should certainly extend this content to the representatives of the employees on the supervisory boards and the boards of directors. That would be necessary. However, I repeat once again that if these certain protections, which are contained in agreement and in the search for prior agreement, are not, then the vulnerability of representatives is so much greater because it goes here alone and nothing but for the right and freedom of expression without fear of sanctions. Those who do not defend the desired positions will be in a vulnerable position to be dismissed or transferred, or the organisation will say good-bye to the proud of the positions that will no longer be protected.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening the application. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm listening, but I can't believe this is really happening. On the one hand, we're against workers and on the other, we're fighting for workers' rights. I have not been on this committee, as I have already said, when this debate developed, as has been said today, very broad, constructive, even the majority consensus has been reached, but I am listening and reading what I have on the table. I must say that I cannot agree with Article 4 of the amended bill. Only if I read it. "To a member of the Council of Workers," I will stress, "without the consent of the Council of Workers, it is not possible to cancel the contract of employment with a new offer to the same or other employer, to reduce the salary, to initiate disciplinary and compensation proceedings against him or otherwise to place him in a less favourable or subordinate position." And now that I am reading the proposed amendment, which is being addressed, it reads: "To a member of the workers' council, the labour council is still included, nowhere does it exclude any council of workers, "there is no way to lower wages or start disciplinary or compensation proceedings against it or otherwise to put in a less favourable and subordinate position," and here is the emphasis, "if it acts in accordance with the law, collective agreement and contract of employment." If he doesn't comply with the law, it's clear that he does. Is that what you're defending, colleagues? Or if it does not comply with the collective agreement or contract of employment, as these are the rules of the game. However, this proposal, which is in the law, reads: "Only without the consent of the Council of Workers to terminate the contract" and so on "whether it is in accordance with the law, in accordance with the employment contract or not". There's a difference. Thus, the amendment is added that it is not possible to act in accordance with the law. That's the point I see. It is true, however, what my colleague Pojbič said earlier and also read that special protection against dismissal is for the members of the Council of Workers, for the employee’s trustee, for the members of the Supervisory Board, which is explained in Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act and for the same as for trade unionists. So it's already settled with the law. Let us look at this, in accordance with the law or not in accordance with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. You've got two seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I'm up. [[End warning sign]] In particular, it is a miracle to discuss a colleague who, often as an opposition Member, votes in a different way than that of the committees. And this time, that's how you think. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u140	First, about reading articles and amendments. I must say that the Member must ask before me who, in a society where the owner is almighty, interprets the employment contract. And if you think that a member of the workers' council does not need protection in terms of the consent of the workers' council, then you put yourself in that old Balkan rule of 'kadia sued by a kadiya judge'. That's what this is about. The Council of Workers and the consent of the Council of Workers, which, as Mr Minister is said to have explained, will certainly, as a Council of Workers, decide more appropriately whether it is justified to initiate a disciplinary or compensation procedure than the owner himself will. Therefore, if you give the owner the right to bully a member of the Council of Workers, a worker or a worker's representative, you say that this is the right thing to do, with this amendment supported, then you really don't believe in the participation of workers in management because you break the back of these people. And that is quite consistent with what this ruling coalition started at the beginning of its mandate - first you broke the spine of public servants, then the police, now the workers, now the representatives, members of the workers' council and so on. Where do you think you're going? And finally, so far, the protection of the workers' world has been in place. And Mr President of the Government said yesterday that we have high economic growth, that we have a good economic position - yes, and who created this? Also, trustees, including members of the workers' council, including labour directors, if you like, or members of administrations, representatives of workers in the company's bodies. Then you don't have to tear it down. However, if you are afraid and want to create the conditions in which owners will continue their way of increasing capital in the second half of this mandate uncompromisingly, then this should be written here. And that's why he's going here. It's about different co-management in companies. Co-ordination, which is paper co-management, because people who are supposed to co-operate are not protected when they have a different opinion; and it's about control, it's about exercising control, and it's about promoting fear in people's bones at the will of the law. And to say, like someone who had two seconds left, he said that I had problems with it, what the board said. If a colleague goes to read the tape and the text of the law adopted at the committee meeting, I think it's a good text of the law. If not, I suggest that before the decision, we ask the Legislative and Legal Service to explain to us the content, for those who do not read the articles, of course, of the content that the Legislative and Legal Service should explain to us what this means, according to some constitutional principles and in Slovenia agreed ways of regulating relations in companies. Therefore, gentlemen from the ruling coalition or, I apologize, from the two parties to the ruling coalition, from the Republican parties, remove these amendments. Remove the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Koren has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u142	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. A good greeting to the Messengers and the Messengers! So, now speaking to you, Republican Member Drago Koren, a member of the Unreleased Slovenia, in truth, of the Free Slovenia, and first of all I really need to replicate a little in my debate and ask my colleague Brickle whether it is inconsistent with the Constitution or with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or with any act of our country, so that certain amendments should not be tabled at the time of adoption of this law, no matter who they are. This is of great interest to me that it would not be me, because I very much advocate that all things happen legally, and if it happens to be an illegal thing, I must say that I will immediately vote in favour that this amendment will not be adopted. The logic of capital in us and in the world, perhaps even more so with us than in the world, is very cruel. With us, it is possible to be more cruel mainly because capital has come into the hands a little differently than elsewhere in the world. And I am very committed to enabling workers to be co-chaired so that we can really enable them to protect workers from this cruel capital. I very much agree with Mr Kumro, who said, look at the restaurant, what happens to waitresses and others. I couldn't agree more. With the adoption of this law, with or without an amendment to this issue that you have mentioned, we will certainly not be able to solve. On the other hand, you have repeatedly opposed workers. Capital, limiting the economic initiative was mentioned many times in this National Assembly when we also talked about pornography. I don't think you remember how it was said that we were trying to limit the free economic initiative. Remember the Trades Act. Whether we are here to advocate a worker, it will not be necessary for a mother and child to leave the child, to seek protection, to go to the store to work for the necessary payment or unnecessary payment on Sunday. She has to go. That's the law we've adopted. Were we here looking at a worker, a shopkeeper? To return to the management or members of the worlds, I will say, we have in this matter, as we have abuses on one side of the owners, but unfortunately I know a few people who hide themselves by doing their work under the kind of legislation that we are talking about today. When they have come up to certain functions as a union trustee or as a working member of management only so that the employer does not have a chance against it, but when it is necessary to act. That is why I consider such an amendment as is proposed here, if a member of the Council of Workers acts in violation of the legislation, the collective agreement and the employment contract, I do not know what else it would take to ensure that the worker is not protected here. Is there too little protection? That's where I'm asking the question. Last but not least, I am the Secretary of State's response, given that he said there were companies that didn't have any workers' councils and then who would decide. So we're consciously accepting a marriage with a hole in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer, do you have a replica? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Now, first of all, I must say that at least in this two-year practice, which I am sitting here, I think is the first time that the National Assembly has completely annulled the adopted positions that have been translated through the legal dictatorships in the reform of the law, what has been concluded on the committee. It is said that in some way it discredits the whole work that has been done on the committee. And, look, it's not just about the committee or the committee, it's about the Labour and Social Committee. This just confirms me in my first assumption and discussion that the majority in this National Assembly have put themselves on the side of capital owners in the event that we are discussing, discussing and adopting the Law on the participation of employees in the management of businesses. Considering what my colleague Koren said. I am sure and daily practice convinces me that it is in small companies that it is far from draining between milk and honey; it is rare exceptions. But it is these small businesses that are the ones that can most abuse and exploit the workforce offered on the labour market. And it's in these companies that it's the least possible for me to use the Styrian term, "stupid," not to work, to prove myself on a Sunday. No way! No way. You can do that in other people. And then there's the next one. I don't think this law will be necessary at all, but let the Labour Relations Act apply. I will point out three things: up to 50 employees, informal participation of workers in management goes through these amendments. Article 10, which we will now consider, also does not allow for a supervisory or administrative committee in which the majority of the workers who decide who will be the working representative on the Administrative or Supervisory Board. Thirdly, as we are currently discussing, the Council of Workers has no powers to protect its members of the workers' council, as do other authorities in these same companies. I've made a comparison between the supervisory board and the higher management. The Supervisory Board is some sort of protective mechanism. Here, do not allow the Council of Workers to be a protective mechanism for employees. Employees then have no protective mechanism anywhere, and everyone else has a mechanism.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u145	Time's up, Mr. Kumer, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u146	The owners have protected themselves with the supervisory board, but the workers can't.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr. Mag signed up for the replica. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u148	Mr. Root. You have presented yourself quite correctly - the Republican Member. If you support this amendment, then you are the Republican Member. But since you mentioned work on Sundays, let me give you an example of what this amendment means if you support it. In a trading company, you have a representative of the company's body. The law stipulated that it was necessary to work on Sundays. The capitalist organizes work, the owner organises work and overburdens a group of workers with Sunday work. The representative, the representative of the workers, tells the owner, the owner does not like this and begins the disciplinary and compensation procedure and reduces the salary without this representative being protected. This is the content of this amendment, Mr Member. We can go to the Shaleska Valley, there are some companies where d.o.o., owners exploit workers or workers; and you, as a member of parliament who has been elected there, terminate this right, so you are indeed a Republican Member if you confirm the amendment. But if you reject the amendment and maintain the dictatorship that it has been so far, then you will also stand in those positions that you have taken in the Shale Valley in the past. Therefore, Commissioner, I agree with the problem that we have reopened trade for many on Sundays, but we have a free economic initiative in Slovenia. However, it is also right that they find the right organisational form in co-management in individual companies, but if they want to find it, the representatives of workers and employers must be in an equal position; and this Article 4 cannot be bullied by the employer without the consent of the Council of Workers. We have a new Sparta near Velenje. Ask the workers how the owner bullys them. These workers could be protected by a representative of workers, workers if this representative of workers and workers were also adequately protected in this law. That's why he's going here. So don't blow my mind that you're a Republican Member and that you're in favour of not working on Sundays. If work is done on Sundays, it should be done in accordance with the rules set out in this National Assembly. This is a matter of different interests [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u149	Time's up, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u150	the interest of the owner and the interest of the workers and maintain the back of those workers and workers. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u151	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. I will not support the amendment that has been tabled. I am convinced that there is an urgent need for the consent of the members of the Council of Workers to act against the representative. The reference to respect for the laws doesn't satisfy me. Because there are several examples of how everything can be done within the framework of the law, however, laws can be misused in the interests of the capital owner. Recently, the representatives of Mehan’s workers were here first, and then the owners. And if it's number 50, we can easily avoid all the regulations laid down by law. It's the same with the firing of workers. If it's number 30, by stopping at 29, we can stop any further procedure. When we adopted a series of laws in the National Assembly, we were confident that they would be respected as the law did. And if he is also an employer, I mean public servants, let me tell you that it is very common for public servants that they are retired without what Minister Virant then has shown me that they will reach a worker and employer agreement on whether work can continue even after the conditions for retirement have been met. In no case was the agreement practically made to me, but the workers were retired at the will of the employer, but they could not continue their work. Last but not least, in this debate I find it surprising that even in the National Assembly some should talk about the participation of workers in management, but some should not. Here it was heard that some, some sent to set up their own companies, or that because they were not in production they should not discuss labour participation in management. Now I ask you where we will come if we take the floor to those who have never studied the rights of EE to discuss school legislation. And if it becomes a personal experience criterion for everything we do when we adopt the penal code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. It is a shame, of course, that Comrade Koren is no longer here, that his debate was in fact very specific to the contents of the amendment they are proposing. If the ruling or part of this ruling coalition, the parties to the SDS and the NSI see that the members of the Council of Workers, the employees or the representatives of workers in the organs of society are only people who have come there because they are commuters, because they are uplifters, then it is understanding how to regulate relationships, relations within companies that will certainly have these different bodies, then logically it is necessary to give such people a clear message to be quiet, achieve what you can achieve with the elbows, and of course do not represent the interests of other colleagues of the employees, do not represent the interests of the company, but have these ratings, as they are worthy of the other and you are not. I think this is a very wrong approach to understanding what people we're talking about here today. And the establishment of a partnership between management bodies between employees cannot be achieved if the understanding of the role of working representatives is understood in this way. I have already pointed out in the first debate today that if they do not work in sync and that the management of the company does not understand that it is necessary to work deliberately and to strengthen human resources for the common benefit of the company, then it is not good for such an undertaking. And if we see these people today, who will represent their interests on behalf of the workers, and I am sure, even the interests of the company, that they are mufflers, do not need to be, of course, in this case it is also clear that they are proposing such amendments as we have here today on the table. Therefore, I am firmly convinced that, in this way, such amendments are not only unnecessary but also harmful, so of course I cannot support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I note that no, so I am closing the debate on the amendment to Article 4 and putting into discussion Article 7 and the amendment of the SDS and NSI sent groups. Anybody want to talk? I find no one, so I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the SDS and NSI groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening the application. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. This is another one of those amendments, which in some ways only increases this lack of trust in this institution of the Council of Workers or workers' representatives in a company. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we propose to reject this amendment. In fact, this is an exceptional situation that happens in a company where the Labour Director jointly proposes a meeting consisting of representatives of capital owners and representatives of the Council of Workers and Other Authorities within. And if this is a working representative, then we have proposed, and this has been adopted on the Committee, this committee of the Supervisory Committee or the Management Board has the same, a parity composition is said, the same number of representatives of employees or members of the Council of Workers and so on and of capital owners, and the president is always the owner's representative. I think it's a "fair" relationship, where it's just an exceptional situation and it's a working representative on the board of directors, that's what a working director is. I therefore propose whether the applicants withdraw or not to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I note that no, so I am closing the debate and putting Article 14 and the amendment of the SDS and NSI sent groups to the debate. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th agenda or at the latest at 20.50. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Period of the agenda - This is on the proposal of a declaration on the adoption of a verbal declaration by the Parliamentary Assembly of the World of Europe - Parliaments, united against violence against women in the family. The proposal for a declaration was submitted by the MEP to the assembly for consideration. Majda Potter. I give the text to the applicant for further explanation of the proposal for a declaration. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State. For two decades, the United Nations and the Council of Europe have been actively engaged in a long-standing and marginalised phenomenon of violence against women in the family. In most countries, the taboo theme of violence against women in the family has led to amazing findings by systematic research and recording of these phenomena. The percentage of women with experience of violence is even high in European countries, where we tend to imitate ourselves in terms of the level of democratic standards. Although there is no accurate data for Slovenia, it is not expected that in NGOs we would be far from the truth that every fifth woman is "falling down the stairs". I therefore expect that, in addition to NGOs and the National Assembly, the Government will also be involved in the campaign of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which includes 630 parliamentarians and parliamentarians from 46 countries and represents 800 million people and residents of Europe, adopted Resolution 1512 at its 20th session on 28 June 2006 and recommendations to Parliament, united in the fight against domestic violence against women. The growing violence against women in the family in Europe is a problem that affects all members of the Council of Europe and is reflected in serious human rights violations, because violence in the family does not know geographical boundaries, has no age limits, is not limited to a particular race and occurs in all forms of family relations and in all social settings. Domestic violence is characterized by violence in various forms, both physical, sexual, psychological, and may also result from financial dependence. Violence against women in the family is one of the most widespread human rights violations that should not be covered with eyes. This is why a pan-European campaign to combat violence against women, including domestic violence, was launched in Madrid on 27 November 2006 and will conclude on 8 March 2008. The campaign, which will take place in cooperation with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe with national parliaments or parliaments of countries with observer status in the Assembly, the European Parliament and the Nordic Council and NGOs, seeks to counter domestic violence against women. This constitutes an attack on the dignity of women and the deprivation of their fundamental rights guaranteed by the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and other international acts. The campaign also wants to open a public debate and at the same time encourage national parliaments to engage more actively in the fight against violence against women in the family. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has already taken part in a campaign against violence against women, as on 24 November it adopted representatives and representatives of NGOs, MPs and MPs. The Members were also informed of the text of the solemn declaration. With the support of the Slovenian declaration of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe - Parliaments united in the fight against violence against women in the family, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will confirm its support for the Council of Europe campaign and its opposition to violence against women in the family. It will reinforce the priority and express its political will to predict the ultimate goal, that is zero tolerance for domestic violence. I expect, honourable Members and Members, that you will support the proposed declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The proposal for a declaration was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. At its 21st regular session, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which is responsible for the work, family, social affairs and persons with disabilities, considered a proposal for a declaration on the adoption of the Parliamentary Declaration of the Council of Europe entitled Parliaments, united in the fight against violence against women in the family. The committee was assisted by a motion for an act, Mrs Mag. Majda Potrata, and the representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, Mr Marko Strovs. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft act in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. It considered that it would be advisable to consider whether that act would not be more appropriate to be adopted by a resolution and to adapt the text of the act accordingly. The members of the committee expressed their support for the proposed act, stressing the need to give greater emphasis to the fight against domestic violence against women, as this will help to build a society where the fundamental rights of all are equally respected; and in this case both male and female. No amendments have been tabled to the draft act and the Committee has drafted and adopted an amendment to the preamble, two amendments to the first chapter and an amendment to the title of the law, so that we have here today a complementary proposal for an act to this effect. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Madam Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs Marjeta Cotman has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! I am pleased that today in the National Assembly you accept the solemn declaration of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe - Parliaments united in the fight against violence against women in the family. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the adoption of the solemn declaration. By adopting a solemn declaration, you will support the efforts of the Council of Europe to combat violence against women, and so will you. Violence against women, including domestic violence, is a social problem that we need to talk about out loud and draw it out of the depths of prejudice. That is why it is so important that we condemn violence in the family in a loud manner. We must work to ensure zero tolerance for domestic violence and through relevant institutions and quality programmes to provide all assistance and support to people with experience of violence and to ensure adequate rehabilitation for the perpetrators of violence. The prevention of domestic violence and domestic violence against women is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The Ministry is preparing a law on the prevention of domestic violence, which we will also consider this year in the National Assembly. We have also made progress in providing programmes to victims of violence. The number of programmes has doubled in recent years and prevention programmes have also been strengthened. The programmes not only focus on the central part of Slovenia, but cover the whole country. The number of such violent acts, despite all efforts, does not fail. Violence is expected to be present in every fifth family in Slovenia. Maybe it's because of the desigmation I've already mentioned. And that's good, because the victims are all too often silent, which is why the perpetrators of violence have so much more power. Therefore, the important awareness-raising actions of the whole society leading to the identification of violence and giving a clear message to all that we have identified violence within the family, banned it and that we have programmes where we provide professional assistance and support to victims and perpetrators of violence in order to get out of the cycle of violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views on the proposal for a declaration. Mr Stanislav Brenčič has the floor, on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, once again for your time. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we certainly support the adoption of the solemn declaration and we also welcome the efforts of Comrade Potrat, saying that the declaration bearing the title of Parliament united in the fight against violence against women in the family. It is right that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia joins in joint efforts and efforts, as expressed in the solemn declaration, and will take them into account in its work. Not long ago in our society, there was little or no talk about violence against women. Especially not about the violence that is taking place, unfortunately, in some families against children. For the sake of the protection of the child’s personality and the reputation of the individual family in the environment where he lives, usually women have endured quietly and still bear the pain and burden on their shoulders today and try to keep the family together at all costs. Of course, this effect is quite the opposite, and violence is escalating, and the family and its members are increasingly suffering, sinking into decay, despair, and suffering. Of course, it is the family itself that suffers the greatest harm. The consequences are largely social. The consequences are long-term, difficult, and ultimately require much more effort and resources to deal with the consequences than if they worked hard to recognize and in time try to help. In our country, we have quite a few institutions in state, local, as well as a number of civil and charitable organisations that are qualified to recognize such situations and problems, but do not have the power and capacity to prevent them and then to restore at least partial family rehabilitation. Most of the time, solutions are still at the expense of the victim, who remains unfunded and without the support of society. Therefore, we hope in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that we will not only remain in a declaratory support, but will indeed, through deliberate measures, establish additional legal bases and other measures to prevent this negative development in our society, because the family is most vulnerable when internal cohesion is not needed and its vulnerability becomes more vulnerable than ever to society as a whole. We therefore support the intention of the proposer and also the decision of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support Parliament's solemn declaration, united in the fight against violence against women in the family. In this mandate, we have witnessed many times or have repeatedly addressed the subject of violence in a family of course of different forms, from physical violence to mental abuse. Here we are primarily talking about intimidation, constant underestimation and humiliation, including various forms of behaviour control, such as isolation of a person from his family and friends, monitoring and limiting the movement and access to data or assistance. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support this Slovenian declaration in particular from the point of view to encourage a determined resolution of domestic violence. We are aware of the importance of the problem and believe that solutions need to be found as soon as possible in this area that will lead to positive effects. We are also aware that violence in the domestic environment and in partnership is most often concealed, and it is also more difficult to recognize and prevent. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that a decision must be taken to address this issue systematically. We have received assurances from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, or from the new Minister, who is here today, that appropriate legislation is being prepared in the area of violence resolution. However, we must be aware that in solving this problem, we must not assume that the family is the focus of violence. The family must be considered as a fundamental value. Domestic violence, regardless of the fact that we are talking about children or women, is also a consequence of the state of the spirit in society as a whole, so awareness of violence in all segments of society and thus in the family is essential. Violence against women in the family is also the subject of many obsidies and research, as it is one of the most widespread human rights violations. With today's support for declarations, of course, we will not solve the problem of violence against women, but we can certainly contribute our share. However, violence against women must not be remembered only on the occasion of the International Day of Human Rights on 10 December. And that is why today, especially in this place, I would like to commend the efforts of all who strive to alleviate or prevent domestic violence. The Presidents of the 46 countries and governments of the Council of Europe recommitted in 2005 to stop violence against women, including domestic violence. Accordingly, the Council of Europe has launched a campaign, which is also marked by the adoption of a solemn declaration by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. With the support of these declarations, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group also joins the efforts and efforts made so far in the declaration, as we believe that violence against women in the family is a serious attack on women's dignity, which should not be tolerated by any Member State of the Council of Europe, because it affects not only the family but also the society as a whole. Of course, any violence is worth a conviction. Domestic violence, in this place we are talking about violence against women, and of course it may also be the result of an unequal relationship between women and men. We therefore agree with the text in the declaration, in particular in the work that says, quote, "For domestic violence the company pays a high price. Personal and social costs are paid by women who survive a severe nightmare and live in constant fear and anxiety. In addition, there is a huge financial price paid by the company as a whole, covering the costs of health, protection, legislative and police activities." As already mentioned, we will support this declaration in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Ms Lovtišar Bebler has the floor on behalf of the LDS delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Violence has become so commonplace in many ways that many times we never see it again. With regard to domestic violence, the belief that it is not good or wise to interfere in family matters still prevails today. It's dangerous if we don't recognize violence, if we're sorry, if we minimize it, but especially if we ignore it, it's dangerous. Even so, let's say we don't adopt the necessary legislation. In Slovenia, there has been more talk and talk in the last few years about the violence that is taking place behind the domestic walls, but this government has taken three steps back in adopting legislation in this area and has not yet submitted to Parliament a bill on the prevention of domestic violence. This is a system law that was prepared for the legislative procedure in 2004. At the LDS, we hope that the new minister will also have more hearing about the problem of domestic violence, which we cannot and must not close our eyes to. Domestic violence is not just a threat to women, but it is also a victim of children, as is a percentage of men. European countries are in a hurry to leave and forget the times when child abuse and degrading punishment were considered normal and acceptable. Sweden started to reform the law half a century ago and became the first country in the world to explicitly ban corporal punishment in 1979. This is now legal in Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Norway, Portugal, Romania and Ukraine. However, the Netherlands and Slovakia have announced that they will adopt a law against corporal punishment. We sincerely hope that Slovenia will join these countries and that we will also be able to write this down in the Family Code, which is also ready, and is stuck again. Since it is a declaration that does not contain specific content or suggestions or recommendations, it is only awareness that is to be taken into account or implemented by Member States, that is, the governments of the Member States of the Council of Europe are to prepare or amend appropriate legislation and to formulate national policies, which would constitute a framework for combating violence against women. The declaration adopted last year can thus be a form of pressure or initiative from national parliaments, united under the auspices of the Council of Europe, that governments amend legislation or formulate policies on the basis of both the recommendations of the Council of Ministers, the Action Plan and all other acts of the Council of Europe, as well as the proposals of the European Commission in the Hague Programme, the first priority of which is human rights and citizenship, where the fight against violence against women, as well as against children and men, belongs. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has also recently addressed the implementation of the Hague Programme. We hope that concrete projects will also follow the solemn adoption of the declaration and that the fight against violence against women will be a truly priority theme of the European national parliaments, i.e. Slovenian parliaments, and that it will not remain only in the written words and declaration of support for the declaration of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We will support this declaration at the parliamentary club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Expenditure on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members, Madam Minister! For many years, the Group of Social Democrats has been striving to show violence between the four walls as a general social problem. It cannot be said that violence against women is the only form of domestic violence. It is problematic, however, because an unprotected mother who is a victim of violence cannot be a good protector to her children, since those who witness family violence are often further promoters and bearers of violence in the future. When we started the topic of "violence in the family," we didn't want to start the foundation of the family. Surely, the family should be the safest environment in which each individual will find sufficient support, but it should be any form of family, not just traditional. That is why we have supported all attempts to amend legislation since 1999, when legislation has also defined domestic violence as violence. That is why, in the previous mandate, we supported amendments to the legislation prohibiting the approach of a violent person who allowed the removal of a violent person and not one who had experienced violence. In short, he intervened in individual laws in accordance with positive European practice. Regrettably, this effort was concluded in 2004 with a broad consultation on the prevention of domestic violence and the written legal texts, which was not supplemented by appropriate amendments in 2005. The Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities has addressed the Ombudsman's special report on the prevention of domestic violence, and Parliament has adopted a decision that specifically stated that domestic violence is, I quote, "a reflection of the wider social situation and, as such, a serious social problem, which can only be addressed comprehensively at national level." Therefore, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to define until the findings in the Special Report of the Ombudsman and to prepare a proposal for a law on the prevention of domestic violence and an inter-sectorally coordinated programme for the resolution of this problem and to inform the National Assembly as soon as possible. This was accepted. So far, we have not received any reports from the Government on how to solve this problem. To the special letter addressed to the Government as President of the Commission in March last year, I received the answers that were expected to put me on an uncertain ground, of course, to expect and demand something that the Government is doing. But it is only in this year's regulatory plan for 2007 that the proposal for the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence has re-emerged. However, some external pressure was needed to change the position of the Government. And I see that the act needs to be adopted, that its adoption is compulsory, is also due to a European policy that wants to prevent domestic violence and, in particular, to prevent violence against women, to be made a priority. I would like to point out that we see a particular problem with the fact that data on violence against women in the domestic environment and partnerships in Slovenia are not being monitored in a coordinated and systematic manner; that there is a lack of more detailed analysis or research on the extent of the occurrence and forms of violence against women; that a system of monitoring indicators in the European Union on violence against women is not yet in place to design and adopt an appropriate and integrated policy to prevent violence against women in the domestic environment and in partnership. Finally, we have not submitted to the Council of Europe a report on what we have found in relation to the situation in this area. The report should be transmitted between October 2005 and February 2006. It is therefore impossible to determine whether the real price of violence against women in the family is comparable to the actual costs detected in other European countries. Social Democrats are aware that it is not a uniform methodology for determining costs, but let me mention only some data: for the UK, €555 per capita per year, in Switzerland, €35. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, however, believes that the costs per individual per year are estimated at around €40. And that these costs are mainly directed to the judiciary, to the police, even to health care, and less to the assistance that victims of violence receive, as well as to those who cause violence, for their rehabilitation. For this reason, we expect the Social Democrats to accept the text of the solemn declaration, because it is not possible to interfere with this text, but that we will give Members and Members, by our personal declaration, our personal example, a behavioural pattern that goes beyond stereotypes and will help to ensure zero tolerance for domestic violence and to all kinds and forms of violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor, on behalf of the NSI Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u172	Nice greetings to the President, the Minister, the colleagues and colleagues. Any violence is worth judging, especially domestic violence if it happens. The dignity of human cohabitation fits only a truly solid place of understanding, loyalty, if expressed in a slightly different way. Not only in terms of the mutual responsibility of partners, but also responsibilities towards children if they come from a relationship. And in this sense, the family, the law not only is a private matter, but it also has a social significance. In Novi Slovenija we view the family as the center and foundation of society, so any violence in the family is a problem of society as a whole and not just the problem of the individual that is happening to him. The family deserves special firm support from society, especially today when we are witnessing to a visible crisis institution. What's good for the family is good for the company. The demoralisation of society is certainly a particular problem of today’s world. The phenomenon of violence also depends on how the company reacts to it, whether it penalises and condemns it, especially how it works in a preventive way. Violence against women is an phenomenon that we must be aware of and must be aware of, and we must also find solutions and act accordingly. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that the famous acceptance of this declaration is only a step towards combating violence against women in the family and that further major steps will have to be taken to end this kind of violence. Therefore, in New Slovenia we support the Slovenian acceptance of the declaration of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Here comes the debate on the proposal for a declaration. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Although I would personally like this declaration to have a more general address, united in the fight against violence against women, not just in the family as it is now. It is true that violence occurs in individual families, and it is true that this violence is far more subtle than violence elsewhere, but it is also quite something outside the family. When we record in the Slovenian Declaration that violence against women in the family is a serious attack on women's dignity, let me say that violence against women in the family is also a serious attack on men's dignity, especially those who do not understand it and those of us in Slovenia are also the vast majority, so men who are embarrassed to know that we have abusers in society who still use the power of argument to convince the weaker sex of their right. And sometimes when I listen to the explanations of this work, I often don't understand the female sex. A woman who says her partner beat her up because she loves her, she comes back to him after that attack. Then we hear that a woman who has been beaten or otherwise subjected to violence against her is said to be the result of her speaking, usually using language. Of course, this is a situation that reminds us that more needs to be done in this area. Acceptance of this declaration shall be a minimum of minimum. We join advanced Europe, join those who point to violence, and at the same time propose that individual countries, members of the Council of Europe, do much more with their active policy than has been done so far. It's important to say that we don't agree to tradition when men somehow owned women and it was kind of self-evident that a woman should do what a man wants. In doing so, it must be stressed that it is not only violence in families that are somewhere on the side of society or in families that are maturing with everyday problems of survival, but also violence in well - situated families, where family members or any other community are well-educated, and yet violence is present. And when we talk about violence against women, we need to be aware that much will have to be done to ensure that women become independent in our society. If violence does occur, we can provide shelter in a safe house for a woman, a wife, or a mother with children rather than remove the abuser from the environment. This mother soon returns to this violent environment because she fears for the future of her children, because she fears for her future too, because she thinks about how she will live in the future, because she is now dependent primarily and financially on the partner she has lived with. And until we ensure and remedy these shortcomings in society, of course, it will be very difficult to address violence. It will also be very important what the executive branch of power will be ready to do, that is, the Government will do to promote non-violence in the family, to talk in our society and to talk again and again about topics that were some sort of taboo of topics that we have not talked about and that we have not dealt with in the past. As we make mistakes unwittingly, I witnessed years ago in an election campaign when the mayor's candidate told us where the safe house was, without considering the consequences. Simply because he probably did not realize the problems associated with domestic violence. As I said, what we are going to do today, I am sure that we will do it unanimously, the minimum that binds us to do so with our own example, as the Mag has done on behalf of the Group of Members. By our own example, spending contributes to understanding the harmfulness of domestic violence by those who do so. And prevention is of paramount importance in this area. Above all, I repeat once again, it is necessary to talk about these problems, to talk about them, only in this way will those or those who have been subjected to violence be able to talk about them publicly and perhaps to stand on the sidelines. It is our duty to create conditions for this, too, in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u176	Today, the highest and highest-ranking value of safety is in society. I am pleased that we have this declaration on the table, but I will be even more pleased when I not only listen to the promise of what this security can also provide at the legal level, but see. For in the last two years a number of scenarios have been changed, which are supposed to remedy this daily more worrying problem of violence against women, either in the family or outside it. At one point, there was a promise of a strategy, then there was talk of amending individual laws, which we heard about a national programme against violence, then we heard about national orientations, today we hear that we will get the law. And if that is right, and if that is true, I would advise you, Madam Minister, to go back to those documents that have been put together in a number of councils and also analytical approaches, which have already begun either certain laws or the integration of all laws into one law, in a group in which the Justice Minister has also participated and in which the Ombudsman has made great efforts. It is necessary to respect continuity and respect it if steps have been taken, and they have been made. See also documents also published in the rapporteurs. It is not applicable to start and discard the work done if the power is replaced. In addition, I would like to point out that in 2005, from Amnesty to the Key Society, to the Anti-Trafficking Centre, to the Non-Violent Communication Society, the SOS, the Women's Advisory Centre, etc. There are many societies, many NGOs in this area, which at least make us aware of this problem. All these companies in 2005 called on President Janez Janša to adopt as soon as possible a system law to prevent domestic violence and to act against all forms of violence against women and children, including workplace violence and trafficking in women and children. I don't know if all these companies got the answer. But we certainly did not get the bill, but promises that we will once have a strategy, once a national programme, once another. But it's violence. And talk about him, fortunately, even more, because the very saying, "No, we don't want that" can mean a lot and change a lot of things. Even myself, I am pleased that we have a declaration of violence against women in the family, but I also think that this problem needs to be covered as a problem of society and there would be no disputed title to the declaration for me if we were talking about society, not just about family as a microcosm of a society. Why am I talking? Because security and violence require security, and especially violence is spoiled not only in this cell of relationships that we call family, but elsewhere. Allow me to update you on this occasion with an interesting interview that was published with Mrs. Jelko Strojan when a journalist asked her: "Have you ever been hit by a man?" We know that this is Mrs Strojanovo from Ambrus or then moved from Postojna to Ambrus. "Have you ever been hit by a man?" asks a reporter, Mrs. Jelko. And Jelka says, "No. Some fight and fight, we don't fight." And then the reporter says, "Do you have any bad experiences with the police and violence yourself?" "Once upon a time, a retired police officer struck me. He was conducting a house investigation." I bought a chicken, and I had an account. That's what I told the police, but he didn't look at that account, and he grabbed me, hit me, and pushed me away. I didn't leave. And I hit him back. But I told him my husband wasn't hitting me yet, and now he's gonna be a cop. Neither would you if someone attacked you and beat you," says Jelka. What I'm saying is that domestic violence is present, it's symptomatic, it's also problematic because it's difficult to record. Not just because of what has been said today, because there is a lack of systematic research and data in the field, but also because most women do not report violence because they are either ashamed or afraid of further violence or because they think no one will believe it. Of course, if more than one factor prevents women from reporting cases of violence and therefore in these statistics, where we see and record horrifying data on violence against women around the world and are truly catastrophic. Look, let's say they rape a woman in the United States every 90 seconds. That's what their Justice Department says. Or that 25,000 women are raped every year in France. And so on. But in these statistics, not only about rape, it may be even easier, but about violence, Slovenia is not because it has no tools and has not made it clear enough to record it, and because of the already mentioned factors, personal, intimate obstacles that usually women have to speak. Of course, they're also afraid of revenge. They sometimes have too little money to initiate procedures, but they are also in high emotional dependence and care for their children and do not have enough help, including morals. A number of women, especially those who lived or tried to get to a safe house or were in safe houses, were sometimes interviewed. Their problem was not just laws, their problem was practice, practice, what it means to go where after you've been expelled, when you can't stay in a safe house anymore, because your stay there is limited, as we know. How to move without at all, safe houses are not as safe as we have heard, not just today, sometimes because they are exposed. [[..]] But it doesn't matter, it's not what I wanted to say; it's not what I wanted to report that a woman doesn't get a job after she's stigmatized, but especially that not every job is for her, because she has to be around school, because children of such women who have to hide from a violent partner have no safe way to go to school and have an ambush on the way and so on. These problems are enormous. And if the laws can save them, I'm happy. But in existing laws, and we have them, as I listed here at least 9 or 10 or also programs, there are some security guards that unfortunately do not enter into force or cannot enter into force in such a way as it would be good for the life of all of these to be safer. This declaration is right not to remain a declaration, not to be a declaration, and not to be another contribution on the anniversary or at some sign that reminds us of the need to talk about it. We usually talk about this to women. But it is also true that in most women, victims are stigmatized or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! The Declaration says to back it up. It is a short, concise, if not the other one, opening up a debate for which obviously there is no overexcitable enthusiasm. With this debate, of course, we could know where we are and where we are going. In the case of domestic violence against women, prevention and abuse must be separated. The police should also play their part in this area. The police have certain powers laid down in the Police Powers Rules. On the basis of these documents, police officers can enter a foreign residence without a court decision, and on this basis they can also prevent specific risks to people and property. I think the police of this article and these powers are served relatively little. Cops are afraid of consequences, they're afraid of long-term complaints, the police are stigmatized because they write down a license plate. And the problem with the police is that there are known cases where police officers themselves have committed violence against women. Just an example from my environment, when a police officer loyally beat his first wife, then another wife, and in the hierarchy in the police department, he progressed from year to year. Colleagues and the environment either closed their eyes or simply ignored the case. Of course, the problem is not just violence against women, violence in the family. The bigger problem is violence in society in general. And I think that violence against women is a result of general violence in a society to which we are quite tolerant. It has already been said here, we must strive for zero tolerance. And that's right. We will not achieve any degree of violence in society at all. But it is right that our eyes, our goals, are in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Violence against children and women is one of the most unacceptable phenomena in society. Given that the Council of Europe has adopted a Slovenian declaration calling for the fight against domestic violence against women, it is clear that such violence is still a social scourge across Europe. And it is right that Slovenia joins this declaration and efforts to combat violence against women within the family when it has joined the euro area in the last two years of its accession to the European Union and accession to the euro area. I do not know sociological studies and research on the situation and situation in Slovenia in this area, compared with other companies and countries. Universal value in the world and in us must be to prevent all violence, especially violence against women and, of course, to prevent violence against women within the family. I believe that Slovenia is somewhere in the European environment with regard to human rights violations relating to violence against women in the family. I don't think she's the worst, and she's not the best. However, I believe that the situation in this area has probably deteriorated in the years following World War II, given the previous situation. At the time of the previous system, which systematically destroyed all the traditional values, among which there was an extremely high position and value of the family, I think it is logical that this relationship within the family has also collapsed and that the situation has probably deteriorated. The former company did not replace traditional values with new values. And I think there's been a lot of things going on wrong. In my view, fighting feminism has also contributed to this in modern times, which certainly does not reduce these phenomena. I am very interested in the sociological studies that have been carried out in this area. I would also like to know where modern sociologists and statisticians include modern families that are not formally concluded as a marriage community. We will probably get better in statistics because it does not cover this segment, but we would be blinded to the fact that this problem is not where these partners live without a formal marriage union. And in this regard, in fact, I must say that I have been surprised by the fact that there has been a competition recently, I think, in the context of the Sunday Diary, the chosen Mrs Slovenia. We know how liberal this newspaper house is. When they found out somewhere that this lady lived in an extra-marital community, they immediately seized her address. But that's probably not the reason. The reason was that, as I subsequently found out, there was once a pioneer in our group. This is the attitude and therefore I call on those who consider themselves liberal, in fact liberal, but not ideologically motivated. I believe that all the words spoken today in this regard have actually been thoughtful and well-intentioned and that in this area we will establish a good situation or improve the situation in Slovenian society, because I agree that this is certainly a social problem, that it is a social problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Does the proposer want a word? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u182	Thank you. At least now, at the end of the debate, I was driven by the desire that it would be good for some to read the Slovenian Declaration and find that the declaration states that no state is immune, no society, no social environment and no social layer. If some people find it necessary to question and seek information on this, including violence, on the type of family, then let me say that different types of family are respected in the Council of Europe. And the definition of violence against women in the family includes these kinds of violence: physical and mental violence or even aggression, emotional and psychological abuse, rape and sexual abuse, incest, marital rape, extramarital partners and cohabitants. So all these statistics cover, if anyone is concerned, and, of course, all the other acts we know, crimes in the name of honour, various disgraces and other traditional practices that also migrate with migration to European space. I should like to return to the declaration and express my expectation that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will in fact meet the forecast and, by December 2007, prepare and, by December 2007, adopt the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, thus withdrawing from what it considered to be two years, that this law is not necessary to actually talk about domestic violence undermining this traditional value. The existence of domestic violence is sometimes linked to stereotyped notions of the role of women. And the basis for violence against women is the unbalanced power between the sexes. The absence of equality, gender equality is also the basis for all kinds of violence, especially against women, and I do not conceal the fact that we know that we also detect violence against men, but that the first problem of violence against women is so small in terms of frequency. And now allow me, as a parliamentary speaker appointed by the President of the National Assembly as a liaison between the national Parliament and the Council of Europe for activities related to the campaign I am talking about, to announce at least two actions which, within the framework of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, I can promise or announce. We will certainly prepare a comprehensive debate on the situation in this area on 2 March, in which we intend to invite both representatives and representatives of NGOs, the Government and all those in particular in charge of this area. We expect the Government to prepare a broad public debate on the proposal for a law on family violence prevention, and the final action will be in 2008, when, in all three segments, it is said to the government, represented by the Office for Equal Opportunities, NGOs and the National Assembly, we are planning an international conference on violence against women. However, in order to closely monitor everything that is going on in this area and from the Government, I can also promise to report on the measures taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u183	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. I remind you that the time for discussion is no more than five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u184	Thank you very much. When I confronted myself once before that the hand had been raised by the high government official of today’s government, and not completely aroused, I wondered myself what it was that could cause such acts. Undoubtedly, it is an act of power. Power over one another. The expression of this kind of power, which has just been subdued by other arguments today, is that combat feminism promotes or does not solve or reduce violence or even that the period after II. World war meant a deterioration of the situation, of course very superficial conclusion and generalisation. And if it's said in this room, it's so much more dangerous to promote the wrong aces. I understand that all of them are somehow not always able to devote themselves to certain backgrounds of problems, but yet in the violence in the family and against women in general, by not denying that there is still a certain very small percentage of reverse violence, it is said to be violence against men by women, but yet the triggering element and impulses of this violence are home to the widest spectrum and the common denominator of this spectrum is power. Power over one another. It's an extreme form of male control over women. That's the most classic definition of violence. Here, if anything drives it, traditional and very authoritarian vision and perception of this relationship, which is unequivocally conditional, can also by thinking: set up another face, or "ora et lab", it is said, be quiet, pray and think. The roots of violence are very wide. And it is most inappropriate to reduce it to the issue of feminism, which he has tried in the near, and especially in the distant history, more than in the near future, to remedy those issues that have pushed women far from the city, not only decision-making, but also the right to speak and to act freely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Well, for a lot of people, I would like to see the debates in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe where, according to the rule on these issues, which does not appear to have an excessive interest in our National Assembly, not just women, but women and men are discussing equally. And since I have in my hands a handbook for parliamentarians prepared by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which it intends to see in the Slovenian translation of the light of the world among us, I would like to tell you that, for example, one of the bearers of the 2004 report or document that discussed the prevention of violence against women in Europe was Mr. Branger, rapporteur. [[?]] , which is from France and which is a member of the EPP, is said to belong to this group, which consists of a political right-wing or traditionally oriented party. So I think that the basic task is to remove the ideological cloaks and to accept that it is not present in large ideological debates, but that we should all be concerned about the preservation of human dignity, regardless of what political spectrum we come from. Therefore, it seems to me that these are some rare occasions when we can do more together than we can see at first sight, if we are only a little more confident and do not attribute bad or extreme purposes to each other, and in particular, it is not intended to undermine family trust. That is why I am actually very pleased to say that the Slovenian Parliament is one of 24 which is the initiative of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to mark November 24th. And I am pleased that today, according to the support expressed, we will also accept this solemn declaration. What I am looking forward to is that, in fact, we will all make a substantial number of efforts together to regulate both the legal basis and our personal responses to the fact that we consider violence to be unacceptable behaviour to occur anywhere. Of course, someone might have thought that in some country, the rise in violence was linked to a change in the social system. I think that the more recording of these problems is linked to greater awareness, with greater sensitivity and greater conviction that violence and corporal punishment are unacceptable forms of behaviour. Let us just look at the reports we receive from Europe, or in the State Department report, or in the Human Rights Commissioner's report - it cannot be overlooked that violence against women is one of the most common forms of human rights violations in our country. I don't see a solution to the fact that safe houses are about to form mass. I see the solution in reducing the need for safe houses by preventing violence and reducing the need for safe houses to the minimum extent possible. That's what I think is normal expectation. In this we should direct our opinions and actions and be aware that elsewhere in the world of this action, these campaigns, these national plans are not a public movement for ever, but a process that, thank God, develops and becomes violent behaviour unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u187	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. As no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal for a declaration, the assembly will hold a decision on the declaration in accordance with the timetable for the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda, or no later than 20.50. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item - This is for the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxis, after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Here you go. Mr. Mag. Spreader's got a word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The basic objective of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Fees is to achieve greater uniformity between the various legal provisions, in particular the harmonisation with the Law on Road Traffic Protection, the Law on Registration of Residence, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents of Citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, the amended Council Decision laying down common consular instructions and the Common Manual on Visa Fees. The proposer also wishes to align the legal provisions with the new circumstances arising from the introduction of the euro, such as the introduction of amounts expressed in euro instead of in tolars, the new regulation of exchange rate issues and so on. At the same time, certain fees are abolished by law, thus reducing the costs of the debtors. The main solutions to the bill's proposal are therefore: the abolition of administrative fees in the field of tax matters, such as if the taxable person makes a complaint to the decision, will no longer have to pay an administrative fee in accordance with this bill; the appeal is not a service provided by the public authority but is the right of the taxable person, therefore it is not appropriate to charge such a practice; the abolition of administrative fees for applications transmitted via e-mail in order to promote the use of administrative services by electronic means. Exemption of administrative fees for applications to decide on the rights of the party within the procedure and on those issues which arise in relation to the implementation of the procedure, such as the application for the designation of the official, the application for return to the previous situation, the inclusion of the party in the procedure and so on. Delete heading 9 which provides for the charging of an administrative fee for photocopying official acts or documents with the administrative authority. In doing so, the Government considers that the photocopying of administrative acts or documents is not an administrative procedure whereby an administrative fee could be charged. The bill also introduces a new fee for the maintenance of the guest book for admission to accommodation or rest or accommodation resulting from the amendment of the law on registration of residence, as well as a fee for the certification of books relating to arms rules. A fee shall be introduced for the entry of a branch of a foreign society in the register of branches of foreign societies, including their amendments. The bill introduces a fee for the authorisation of a driving teacher, a driving instructor and a driving instructor and a driving licence extension fee for a driving teacher and a regulatory teacher. The draft law rationalises the existing situation with regard to the charging of administrative fees for the issuing of a travel document for children, while at the same time regulating the payment of administrative fees relating to the replacement of forms so-called non-biometric travel documents with biometric documents in the event of a complaint due to the error of the manufacturer. The section of the bill setting out consular fees contains several amendments and additions, among which are most important in order to comply with the law on amendments and additions to the travel documents law and in order to comply with the fees which were uniform for the Council decision on the visa procedure at the diplomatic or consular offices of the Schengen States. The reasons for the increase in consular fees are mainly the introduction of biometry and the visa information system into visa business. Consular fees are also amended to include certain tasks carried out at diplomatic or consular missions, but the consular fee has not been prescribed for them so far, for example for the extract from the birth certificate and for the costs incurred by diplomatic or consular representatives in obtaining extracts and certificates from foreign authorities. The proposed amendments and additions to the Administrative Fees Act are also the result of changes in the various areas of substantive legislation and changes and additions to the law will have a positive impact on the increase in public revenues from administrative fees. The reduction of public financial revenues will be affected by the exemption of administrative fees for documents and actions relating to proceedings before tax authorities, estimated at EUR 166 000. As a result of the proposed changes in consular fees, revenues from consular fees will increase by around €3 million in the national budget. These revenue shall include both administrative fees and material costs related to a specific mission of diplomatic or consular offices abroad. Changes in the level of consular fees, however, mainly reflect an increase in these costs. Within the Republic of Slovenia, these costs are not charged as part of administrative fees, but separately, according to the cost of individual bodies. The increase in consular fees, however, has no impact on inflationary movements because it is payments made abroad. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal be supported or adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u190	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! At its 24th meeting, on 27.1.2007, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Fees. We have received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which makes comments and draws attention to individual inconsistencies in the text of the Act in Articles 4, 5, 7 and 11. On 11.1.2007, this means in the course of business, we also received a proposal from the Coalition's parliamentary groups for amendments to Articles 4 and 5, which also takes into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. The fact is that we are talking about a so-called technical law following amendments to certain laws, which should also be covered by a new or complementary proposal for an administrative tax law. There are also some proposals to exclude certain things from the payment of administrative fees. As has already been said, the payment of taxes on tax matters is exempt from payment of fees for applications sent by electronic mail. The debate also tabled a proposal to amend Article 6 of Mr William Rezman, which proposes that the text of Article 6 replace "national" with "administrative" because the concept is broader and coordinates these tariffs in all areas. The Committee has adopted the proposed amendments to Articles 4 and 5 and has also been agreed with by the proposer and therefore proposes an updated proposal for a law in accordance with Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure for the adoption of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Member and distinguished 11 Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Fees, which we are talking about today, brings some news that I also welcome in the presentation of the representative of the Government and the presentation of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance. In the Slovenian National Party, however, we are particularly pleased that this proposal for a law has reached into the field of concrete Articles 19 and 20. Why? Because we finally came to the same denominator between those who were or were supposed to be refugees and those who were Slovenians. At least that's what they promised me. It's all the same. If they want to receive services, services under Article 19, i.e. passports issued by diplomatic and consular representatives, they have to pay a certain amount in, I will say, still a mercy amount. The same applies to both of them if they are not financially able, within certain limits, both to Slovenians and to refugees, as well as to be exempt. That's what I was promised from your side. I think that still holds. It was also promised by the Finance Committee. In particular, in the Slovenian National Party, we are pleased to see article 20, where we finally began to appreciate that the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia is not free to buy for two bottles of pire [[I said "pire" because it's "Lasko" and "beer" is Union.]] , as it used to be, but it is necessary for citizenship to do a lot of things, especially for Slovenian citizenship, because it is honorable and appreciated. I am sorry that, now I do not know if there are any changes, you will explain this to me, in points 1 and 2 of the footnotes, if it is the simultaneous admission of members of the same family on the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia and so on is paid for all family members a single fee. We oppose this in the Slovenian National Party. We are lowering the value of Slovenian citizenship again. I am also sorry for the remark under point 2, which applies approximately the same. However, just because of these two changes with great joy, I am now speaking because, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Fees. We reject any further claims about how to reduce or increase. Even too small are the prices in Articles 19 and 20 for all those who wish to receive either our passport or they want to become citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I hope that this change will also come very soon and that we will increase these prices, but note 1 and 2 will be abolished and, for everyone who wants to become a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, counts for each such tariff in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! After listening to more substantive discussions and reflections on essentials in the previous agenda item, about dramatic living situations related to the declaration or support for this declaration against violence against women and in the family, and supported by the DeSUS delegation, we are now going to a different level, to the level of dry day-to-day things, to bureaucratic procedures and payments for them. However, it is a matter of meeting people, customers, employees and government and municipal budgets every day. It is probably not entirely irrelevant, therefore, that we think more about these things, including administrative fees and procedures in this regard. It has already been said today and there is no point in repeating what is changing with this proposal and with additions. But perhaps it is only right to stress that these changes do not mean that there are any special political ambitions behind them, that something dramatically interferes with our everyday lives, and that it is not really a law that is creative in nature that creates something. Some are already being followed by legislation, some regulations that simply need to be followed, including those that come from the European Union bodies. And for the sake of this, because it is primarily a matter of tracking, it is probably also entirely justified that the procedure is shortened and that we call these changes less difficult. Some will benefit from these changes. In particular for those who are less or no longer paying for certain administrative procedures or services, and also for those who carry out these services, in particular if more of this electronic business, work will also be facilitated and probably reduced in a time-consuming sense. There will be some unpleasant consequences. We have also heard about this on the Home Working Committee quite a bit, particularly with regard to the increase in fees as regards diplomatic and consular representations. We believe ourselves in the Group of Members that if the fees represent part of the reimbursement of costs arising from certain services requested by the party, that this is also justified. If they hold data, then so far we have so far been unduly undercharged certain services and in fact to compensate or correct certain weaknesses. It is interesting to note that the estimated financial implications, which are cumulatively positive for the state budget, for municipal budgets, where many administrative procedures are also being conducted and fees are being charged, will in fact be completely neutral because of the new law on the financing of municipalities, which, in particular in the first year and later every year less than five years, so to speak, all taxes are included in their own revenue and then go back to the principal and return to the municipality through the principal. The municipalities will not have any specific own revenue that would be important to enable them to implement their own programmes. We are also pleased in the DeSUS Group of Members that several initiatives have been taken. What's interesting is that even one on DeSUS's side, which is not normal, that's a rare thing, but it's only happened this way. However, perhaps another comment could be taken into account and, in particular, two I would like to briefly mention. One regarding the exemption of payment of the location information fee, which is still in place and which is only the first part of the procedure for obtaining the building permit and, logically, it would be appropriate to exempt them. Second, as regards the exemption of fees for the acquisition of a building permit, there are fees for the construction of buildings worth up to EUR 100 million or up to EUR 420 thousand. This is said not to be about social ratings, but it can be if it is not just about the first process, including business activities, investment activities, and it is probably not right for such investments to be forgiven. The DeSUS Group will support this amendment and the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeaky on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u196	Mr President, government representatives, citizens and citizens! When the President of the Government said that Slovenia and Slovenia would not be further burdened in this National Assembly at the time of last year's tax reduction that Slovenia and Slovenia would not be further burdened, this was the second law when, as a result of the proposals of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, supported by the votes of the ruling coalition, there would be a significant increase in costs for citizens and citizens of Slovenia, particularly those seeking services from diplomatic and consular offices abroad. Obviously, I'm going to banalize, now that the law is directly available, it's going to raise this cost on average by 70%. Therefore, it will add EUR 3 million to the state treasury and it is banal for the Government to say that this is no big deal because it is only about raising prices abroad. Well, that's not true either, but it's more in the debate about individual amendments. Personally and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will oppose the law because of this higher administrative fees. After the President of the Government has said there will be no rise in the burden, this is the second law after the rise of energy excises, which will significantly increase the costs for Slovenian citizens. This cost will rise by 25% for service in non-European countries. For the issue of a passport, especially for those seeking refuge in Slovenia for example, the cost will increase by 85%. For various transit visas, of course in connection with changes in the European Council, these visas will on average rise by 71.4%. For the purpose of drawing up another document or certificates at the request of the interested person, by 11%. And the most interesting is a very small provision in the law, which says that we delete that the application for a service provided by the diplomatic and consular representation is free. In this regard, Slovenia has set two objectives in the development strategy of Slovenia: to have a more efficient and cheaper country and to invest in knowledge. Many students, many young people are now studying abroad. And when they study abroad and get a so-called credit-hour certificate, it needs to be verified at the embassy. So far, 11 euro has had to be paid at the Embassy for one page of this foreign translation certificate. According to the new report, this will be €19, which means once again a very high increase, 72%. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia by this law places an additional burden on Slovenia and Slovenia and those seeking assistance at the diplomatic and consular offices of Slovenia. Today we talked a lot about Slovenian entrepreneurs. If Slovenian entrepreneurs want to draw up a contract in the office of the diplomatic and consular representation, this cost will now be 18.6% higher. If they want to translate from foreign to Slovenian, this cost will be 29.6% higher, on average, than I said, by about 70%. And what's so corny about this? That, in order to ensure the neutrality of the transition to the euro, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has made a commitment that just because we are introducing the euro, we will not raise administrative fees, state prices and so on. In this case, the government didn't do it. The government and the government will have to go to the blacklist of the Slovenian Consumer Union, the only difference is that Slovenians and Slovenians who are looking for this service abroad will be burdened. Later, we will also discuss some of the costs that are increasing at home. We are opposed to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u198	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, representatives of the government, Members of Parliament and Members! In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia, we support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Fees. The basic objective of the bill is to achieve greater uniformity between the different legal rules, change in tolar values to the euro and harmonisation with taxes based on Council Decision No. 454/2003 because visa fees are based on actual costs and have increased significantly. As regards the harmonisation of the various legal provisions, this is particularly the case with regard to compliance with the Road Safety Act, the Residence Registration Act, the Travel Documents Act of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and Council Decision No. 2006/440. In the New Slovenia Group, we are particularly pleased with the changes that will exempt our citizens from many administrative fees, especially in the tax area. It is also more favourable for citizens to abolish administrative fees in the field of tax matters by exempting taxpayers from administrative fees for documents and acts issued by the tax authority on official duty or at the request of the debtor. For applications transmitted via e-mail, where the aim is to encourage the e-government, for applications to decide on the rights of the party within the procedure and also for questions relating to the implementation of the procedure. In view of the fact that the photocopying of official acts or documents is not an administrative procedure, it is proposed that administrative fees are not charged for these photocopies. With regard to the passport, the existing situation is improving as the child acquires a passport with validity up to three years of age and for the ages 3 to 18 the passport is issued for a period of five years. Most of the changes include a chapter setting out consular fees where the level of administrative costs is conditional on an increase in actual costs due to the introduction of biometry and the visa information system. Amendments are also necessary for the inclusion of certain tasks which are not covered by the applicable law and have been carried out outside the premises of the office for the purposes of the debtors. It should also be said that the authority issuing a passport to our citizen for return from abroad or abroad has the right to exempt the payment of a fee in the light of the material situation and other circumstances. As far as visas are concerned, it must be said that a number of exemptions are already envisaged in the law itself, mainly for the promotion of economic, cultural, political and other important public interests. In short, in the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a law because we believe that changes are necessary and in line with other legislation and also with the euro. We will not support the LDS amendment because the law is worse than improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Kristijan Janc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Secretary. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Fees brings the necessary alignment with certain other legislative changes, adjusts administrative fees in line with the new euro currency and brings other changes towards the citizens of a more friendly state administration. Of course, we support the proposed amendment of the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. In particular, we would like to point out that it is welcome to abolish certain fees which reduce the costs of the debtors in the proceedings before the public authorities. Among the other changes in this direction, I would like to highlight in particular the decision to exempt the payment of fees for documents issued by the tax authority at the request of the debtor or at the request of the official authority. The tax area is often faced by citizens, and tax exemption is also important for a greater modernisation in the tax area. Among other exemptions, it has also made an important provision that administrative fees are not paid for applications submitted via e-mail. This measure is considered to be very encouraging, in particular in terms of promoting the use of electronic services by the state administration. However, in addition, the exemption from payment for electronic applications was also an appropriate solution, as electronic commerce is actually cheaper for the public administration. In the long term, of course, under the conditions of the majority use of e-services, they could save quite a bit of state money and allocate it for other, more urgent and, above all, long-term efficient purposes. Of course, the proposed novels also bring some innovations, particularly the implementation of the guest book, books on weapons regulations, the entry of a foreign branch and so on. Most of the changes in consular fees are due, however, to compliance with the Travel Charter Act and to a decision of the Council of the European Community simplifying the visa procedure for the diplomatic and consular representations of the Schengen States. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that there are urgent and necessary changes to the Administrative Tax Act and we will support it as we have already said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u201	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be guided by the amendment review of 29.1.2007. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Report. Mr. Boyan Starman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u202	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I do not intend to support the amendment to Article 6 because, in my opinion, it does not in any way improve the text of the amendments themselves, but also because we have not announced the debaters in time before by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, I say that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will fully support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudi Veršnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. I am announcing that I will not support the amendment to Article 6 because absolutely nothing corrects the law as it should. At the same time, I would also like to say that such a tendency to present impressions as they were presented here in Parliament by one parliamentary group as a percentage that in absolute numbers it is not such a "fun" or it is not a large number. This would also add that this Government has saved people significantly more than they will have to contribute to these embezzlements, so that I do not keep talking about notary services and certified by notaries and so on. In short, the presentation was very trendy, set up where the percentages with large numbers were, in fact, when we look a little bit deeper, it's a few euro rankings, there's about 10 to 20 euro there, which isn't such a big number, because we don't need that every day. But if it's a quality improvement, we know why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues spoke before me about everything but this amendment, so allow me to speak myself about the content of the law and, of course, first of all, to say that I agree with my colleague before me so that this law needs to be corrected. This law should be corrected on the labour market only because it is contrary to the decision of the Government, which states that, at the time of the transition to the euro, the Government will not increase the monetary amounts set out in the rules and other legal acts adopted or proposed or affected by it in accordance with its competences, and has imposed on all ministries, bodies of composition, government services and administrative units to respect this commitment until the end of the transition period to the euro. The Ministry is also an external ministry. And diplomatic, consular representations are part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And these diplomatic, consular representations will be entitled to an average increase in the prices of their services by this law adopted in this National Assembly. This is not a bit of money, gentlemen - I'm sorry, the MP is not here in the National Assembly. This is at annual level 3 million euros, 3 million euros 750 million. This is, in order to translate into more rational figures, about a tenth of Mr Rupl's budget. Now, of course, it will be easier for Mr Rupl to spend money on other matters, because here the diplomatic and consular offices will get an additional amount of money from Slovenian citizens and from those who want to do business with Slovenia or seek refuge in Slovenia. And to say by the Members that this is nothing, I will only present to you the heading 77. So far, 270 euro has to be paid for the certification of the signature at the request and for administrative action relating to the issue of a decision to grant leave or admission to the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. Now you're raising it to 400 euros! 130 euros is for a large third of the salary. And that's why I can't agree that we misrepresented the position here. We have said here from this booth that the increases are very high - 25%, the service in the out-of-European countries from €8 to €10. But, you know, the government has committed itself to the conclusion that the transition would be neutral, that there would be no increase. The promotion here should be zero percent. Issue of a passport for refugees - from 27 to 50 euros, an increase of 85%. And then, of course, the famous story of heading 78, where the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Justice, should say, because we are moving to the euro in Slovenia, we will retain - and we can also establish here, for example, a parliamentary reservation to raise transit visas, where there is an increase from €35 to €60 or 71.4%. Slovenia wants to cooperate with the countries of South-Eastern Europe. The bumper is used for transit and this airport transit visa will now cost 71% higher. That's the content. For transit visa category B also 71%, short stay, visa, 71%. In a few days, colleagues from Southeast Europe will visit Slovenia and the short-stay visa will now cost 60 euros and not more than 35 euros. Businessmen, Slovenian businessmen, are exporting 70% of what they produce. From this, exports to Southeast Europe are growing very much. Apparently, the government's president is going to visit Macedonia with a plane full of businessmen, but when businessmen from Macedonia are coming back to Slovenia, they will have to pay a 70% higher visa for 71.4, Member of Parliament, precisely, for a short stay. And then, of course, the story, the most obsessive, so-called abolition of the request for a service. A student, a student in Spain needs a certificate of translation from a foreign language into a Slovenian language in order to establish credit hours. And to say that for one side this little thing instead of 11 euros to pay 19 euros, it's just a simple misdirection. Students have 200 Euro scholarships there. And now instead of €11, they're going to pay €19 to authenticate one side! And, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, I understand that the government says there will be no need to act with a reduction - for example, that is how yesterday, Mr President explained: "No harm, there will be no catastrophic scenario." You know, if you charge the Department of Foreign Affairs by raising the costs of services for citizens, then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can act even more irrationally. And I would like to see how this is known in the 2007-2008 state budget itself. No, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs obviously has enough money now. Thus, the whole story of increasing costs for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is that we will pay more and that the country will collect an additional EUR 3 million per year from us. And that's 70% raise. A few days ago, there was a discussion about who is on the blacklist of the Slovenian Consumer Union. I propose that the Union of Consumers of Slovenia place on the top of the blacklist the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, individual Members and Members, who today will confirm this law because this law means directly. These are the facts. I know that these facts are painful, I know that with these facts it is difficult to argue, and that now you will probably discuss anything but what it says here. At the time of taking over the euro, the government decided to raise costs by 70% in the diplomatic and consular office for Slovenian citizens and citizens and, of course, all those who wish to do business with or stay in Slovenia, now that Slovenia has become a member of the European Union. It's a very wrong policy. And then I suggest that Mr Rupel and Mr Bajuk and Mr President of the Government, who are most responsible for this action, simply delete the provision that Slovenia will be a cheaper country. No, Slovenia is becoming a much more expensive country with this act. A much more expensive country! And I'll do it. Of course, we propose with the amendment that the Minister of Finance, together with the Ministry of Public Administration, have a few words to say that when it comes to saving at the Ministry of Public Administration, the Minister of Public Administration will say that we will not save anything, we will not reduce expenditure, but we will simply raise our photocopying services." That's what's gonna happen. And in this case, with the amendment, we prevent this because we believe that at least the Ministry of Finance should take care of it. Why did the Minister of Finance sign this law when, at the same time at the meeting on 7 December 7, under point 7, he proposed to the Government a whole set of conclusions on how the Government would commit itself to its own law and not raise prices. When the Government recommended to the court and other state authorities that they do not do so, and when the Government, by its decision, requested the ministers to inform their authorities in the composition, I assume that the Minister of Finance did not tell the Secretary of State who sits in the cabinet of the Prime Minister that such a law was then found here. By asking you nicely, we are in a period of transition to the euro and there is no argument, except that you want to spend more irrationally money to raise these diplomatic and consular fees by 70%. And I will personally oppose such policies, and my fellow Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy will also oppose them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The government representative has the floor, Mr. Mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and honourable Members! First of all, I would like to say that the communication between the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State is smooth and complete and the Secretary of State is aware of all the documents. Next, I would like to make some clarifications, which I believe are necessary mainly because some of the indications here were incorrect also with regard to the figures themselves. Firstly, because of certain services provided by diplomatic-consular offices and for these services, diplomatic-consular offices have certain costs, and in relation to these costs prices are also determined if you want or if you want the prices of these services in the form of fees. First of all, I'd like to say about photocopying and photocopying student degrees. The provisions of headings 83 and 73 are excluded, which means that this is an amount of EUR 11. So it's not a huge increase, because these two numbers are actually being excluded. This means that both taxis cannot be charged at the same time. When we are talking about citizenship and we are talking about heading 77, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is €270 for a tax on leave or admission to the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. Such a fee is also prescribed in accordance with current legislation. However, EUR 130 is actually paid for the identification of citizenship, this is essentially a different service, and there is also a different item in heading 77 and the figures mentioned above, say EUR 270 and EUR 130, are in fact excluded, which means that this is not an enormous increase in the fee in this case or an increase actually mentioned here. With regard to refugees and taxes in connection with obtaining citizenship for refugees, here is the fundamental reason that material legislation has changed and that we no longer have special passports for refugees. In addition, I would like to mention that the revenue generated by the fees is the revenue of the state budget and not the revenue of the individual ministry, whatever. In connection with transit visas, I would like to say that Slovenia follows the European Council's decision that this is about uniting the level of fees. And given that Slovenia is in the EU, it has also committed itself to adopting rules that are binding or binding on all EU Member States in this case. Finally, I would also like to say that the Government opposes the amendment to Article 6 for the reason that such an amendment actually prolongs and complicates the process of accepting the costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Starman, did you want a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u210	Thank you very much. I wanted a replica before, so... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u211	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u212	For a short time. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u213	You get your word, then Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u214	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I just want to say a few words about these almost misleading words of my predecessor, Mr Cwickle. The fact is, all taxes are virtually just changing from tolars to euros. It's just the kind of alignment that it is. Secondly, consular and visa fees are to be followed by the EU Directive, which in the field of consular posts is Council Decision 454 of 2003 and in the area of visas Council Decision 440 of 2006, which regulates the same payment of these consular and visa fees in the region of the countries in Schengen. These payments are made outside and do not affect our domestic inflation. However, I must point out that in the beginning it was said that a few exemptions are taxes that want to stimulate or simplify certain things. These are fees for applications received by e-mail, these are tax fees for tax procedures, for decisions on these matters, so that we cannot talk about not knowing what kind of embezzlement these services have for our citizens. On the other hand, we are obliged to bring our legislation into line with the European legal order that we have entered into, and also with our legislation, with all the laws that we have amended in this period after the law has been in force. This law was adopted in 2000, the last amendment was in October 2005. And all the things we have adopted, the various legislation in different areas, must also be harmonised in this law. Therefore, it is essential that we accept and support this matter, and I see no reason to be afraid of the great inflational effects and irritations. For our citizens, things are practically valued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, a replica of Mr Mag's debate. It's spreading.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u216	Mr. Secretary of State. Look, of course, I am pleased that the Secretary of State is aware of the Government's conclusions. It is therefore so much more surprising to me that, even when the Government is aware of it, if it was the expert author of this material, it is so peaceful to adopt this law, while at the same time taking a decision peacefully where it states that it undertakes not to propose higher fees in the regulations and other legal acts it adopts or proposes. The first thing to say in this regard is the so-called adaptation to the European Directive. If the Government made the right comparisons with individual countries, then I would see that in different countries these fees are different and that this is usually dependent on, if you want, the general level of prices in these countries. And there is no reason to rush to the level agreed upon in the European Council. No reason to go up 71.4% in one year. Even more, Slovenia has an additional argument if, of course, the government were to care, as would all other pricemakers in the market economy, that there would be no inflationary pressures at the time of taking over the euro. The government should take on and justify why it will do so gradually. No, you have decided to increase the cost of citizens by a reduced procedure of 3 million. With regard to inflation at home and abroad, let me explain to you ladies and gentlemen that inflation is being created for two reasons. The first is so-called inflation due to increased demand. And when you gave more tax gifts to the rich, higher net wages, you created so-called inflation due to increased demand. The second is inflation, which is due to increased costs. And here, for 3 million euros, you also raise costs for Slovenian citizens when you need services at diplomatic and consular offices. And if we talked earlier about independent entrepreneurs who will now have higher costs if they do business in Belgrade and will be certified at the Slovenian Embassy in Belgrade, they will transfer this cost to the price of services at home. Therefore, the fact is undeniable, the prices of services are rising by 70% on average in diplomatic and consular representations. And now, in the end, this story about citizenship. Indeed, so far there has been one act for the certification of signatures for all administrative actions relating to the issue of a decision to grant leave or admission to citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia; and this has cost 270 euros. Now you have invented another additional action, namely, the so-called issuing of the decision, the signing of the decision, which costs another 130 euros. It is said that the administrative action would end from the beginning to the end in order for someone to become a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, goes, we know, for 18,000 so-called deleted, will be a total cost of EUR 400. Instead of considering what should be followed directly by a constitutional decision, the Government should either do so directly with the power of the law, but not to raise it from 270 to 400 euros. Finally, what the Secretary of State may have deliberately overlooked. Indeed, the verification of the tariff number - the content of heading 83 remains the same - EUR 11. Only so far have students not paid EUR 8 for requests for the service they want because the application for a service under this tariff number was free. Now they have to pay. And that's the difference. Of the 11 is the cost of 19 euros. These are facts, so the law was also interpreted by the Legal and Legislative Service when we discussed this. And, of course, the most trivial thing about this is that we can discuss this even this afternoon, the law is closed and unless the Government withdraws it or if the Members do not completely reject it, these costs for Slovenian citizens and citizens, for those who deal with our diplomatic-consular representations, will increase by three million euros on an annual basis. And for individual tariff numbers, I said an average of 70%. These are irrefutable facts. This was not written by an independent central bank; this, gentlemen, is what you wrote yourself in the explanation of the law and therefore, of course, I object to a law that does not follow the government's promises that the state will be cheaper. This country is less efficient and much more expensive.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Report. Mr. Mag. Expand, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Dear Members, very briefly, once again. I would also like to stress here that citizens and citizens will in particular be exempt from the taxes they pay most, such as taxes in the field of tax matters. These are the most common and are in fact the fact that the State will no longer require the payment of a fee when they have any questions, complaints, comments on the notes in the case of tax matters, as well as when they are operating with the State via e-mail. This means a substantial relief and a real relief for the majority of citizens and citizens. The next thing I would like to point out, of course, if we are talking about prices and possible price increases, is that consular-diplomatic representations in most cases use foreigners when they need certain services from the state of Slovenia, and they will be the ones who will pay these fees for these services. This will not result in inflationary movements or additional tax burdens for citizens and citizens of Slovenia. With regard to the so-called photocopying of diplomas, I would like to reiterate that tariffs 83 and 73 are excluded. In relation to citizenship, I would also like to say that both items 270 and 130 are excluded, which means that it is not an upgrade, but a matter of whether someone wants one service or wants another service. And in this connection, we cannot talk about such an enormous increase in taxes as has actually been said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Please. Here you go. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u220	I refer to what the Secretary of State has been deceiving and saying how the matter will be cheaper for the Slovenians and Slovenians who provide services with the country. I quote the figures from the government document: the exemption will be 40 million tolars and the higher costs will be 720 million tolars. If you share this, you get a factor of 18. You'll gain 18 times more with these higher services than you'll save. Of course, how many of these will go to the citizens of Slovenia, how many of these will be refugees or our business partners, that is the second question. But if we assume that 70% of Slovenian economists are exporting and their business partners will have more costs with them, this, Mr Šircelj, will soon be known at higher domestic cost-effective prices. They will do more expensive business or this business will be difficult with Slovenian companies. And so I say, the government here takes 18 times as much as it gives different groups of citizens, and the most banal thing is that you will be more and more burdened by those who have decided to go abroad to go to school and will now pay 85 percent more, and I don't know how many percent more, the business they have to do with the country, because no one else in the middle of London can verify some of the documents, but the Slovenian embassy or consular service. And that's the banality of it, you'll take 18 times as much as you give.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Before I go any further, I'd like to remind you of something. We are discussing Article 6 and the amendment of the LDS Group. That 28a. Article 6 should be amended to read as follows: "The Ministry responsible for finance, in cooperation with the Ministry responsible for public administration, shall determine the cost of photocopying official acts or documents with the administrative authority." We are discussing this amendment. Three others applied for the debate, the first being Mr Rudi Veršnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u222	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. However, the debate so far took place in a different way than you mentioned. I think you will have to bring this debate to an end in this sense. And that's why I'd continue here with what I've already said or happened here. I have a feeling that we're talking like we're in a mill, we're passing each other, and we're driving some demagogies out of a reflection that means a few Euros, of course, as a percentage of them look terrible numbers, and that's why some demagogues explain it as a percentage. I would point out, however, that this country, although being criticised, has taken care to reduce the costs for citizens. And I will just say, for the first time, by removing the stickers - and we have not filled the state budget with these, but with private pockets - and for the second time, with notary services, where we have actually sealed citizens very strongly with the verifications themselves and also with other services. And in this way, to run such a panic for these few Euros of encouragement; and also to let those who want to come to Slovenia realize that they are coming to a country that is regulated, which is a desirable destination. And if they want to come, let them know they're coming to this country. And that's why the price is higher. However, if businessmen are going to build prices because of these pairs of euros, I think that the one who declares that he was not quite present in the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I also wanted to protest the eclectic abuse of the Rules of Procedure and ask that we are still talking about the amendment, which is the only subject of our debate now. This amendment has only one ambition: that, apart from what is already stated in this article, the Ministry of Finance should decide on this. And don't talk about anything else. Let me also say that he's not talking about taxes, but he's talking about photocopying costs. This is exactly what the bill entails for the fees provided for in this Article to be deleted and to be replaced by photocopying costs. So all that goes through is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Maybe there's something else he should mention. In the introduction to our position, I have already said that, as the analysis prepared by the applicant shows us, when we talk about visa fees - it is that some costs have not been included in the price at all and some are too low. And when it comes to overcoming some of the earlier weaknesses, it probably can't be a reason for overly critical. The EU also requires us, by a decision, to unify all within the Schengen states certain fees. So here we are not in a position to arbitrate, but we simply need to implement some things directly. Unfortunately, it has happened to us that we have received another "gaugenvirt" now in Parliament. At our end, we called the "gaugenvirta" the one who took care of the "gugs." They hanged the guags, or there they exhibited those who came to the black pages. And this journey, the suggestion of consumer relations, that all those Members and Members who do not think like Mr Squeakl, should be exposed and attached to "gugs", I find embarrassing. That seems kind of corny and grotesque to me. I don't know why Mr. Squeakle wants to become a gavgenvirt. I'd be ashamed of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u226	Replica to Comrade Rezman. See, the Union of Consumers of Slovenia publishes those responsible on blacklists. Here the Government is hiding behind us, Members and Members of Parliament, and we will decide. I just want you not to hang on the blacklist of the National Assembly as a whole, but those, you can only customers because of me who will support this marriage. Of course, Members and Members of Parliament bear each individual responsibility. And if you support this law today, Mr Rezman, you are directly responsible for raising costs by 70%. These are the facts, this right and responsibility, especially responsibility, you bear with your function. And as I said, it is not the entire National Assembly that is to blame, first it is the Government's fault, but I could have been denied the law, the law was not rejected on the home labour body, nor were the articles open, where perhaps even you, if you really opposed the price rise, proposed amendments, but the amendments of some who were proposed to the amendment committee, were rejected on the home labour body and the law is closed today and the only thing left as an option is to reject the law. Otherwise, you know, every pressure on the key has consequences; sometimes these are positive, but sometimes they are negative. In this case they are negative for the citizens of Slovenia, and this is the second time since the adoption of the budget. You've raised your energy taxes and now you're raising your administrative fees by 70%. These are facts, they hurt, I believe.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Cyril Testen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again. I think that Mr Squeakl is aware that he has tabled this amendment only so that he can open a general debate on amending the law. This was an exclusive and basic objective. He knew that this amendment was bad, that it was worse than the proposal of the previous text, so he reacted in this way and then, thanks to being allowed to discuss all possible matters, he took advantage of it and he discussed the whole law and the fees and visas and all possible other things. I would also like to say that he has forgotten to say that for Slovenian citizens there are many reliefs, many cancellations of fees, that many exemptions are also possible at consular offices, and I think it would be very correct for him to say this in addition to everything else he listed. As for these foreigners, Macedonians, and similar ones, some of whom have such salaries as he mentioned. I don't think those who come to Slovenia with the government delegation will have too many problems. I agree, however, that someone else from Macedonia can have it, and he has all the conditions that the fees are also forgiven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman, what did you want earlier, a replica? There's no replica to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u230	I wanted to do it procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u231	Then please tell me.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u232	So, I would like to say that it was not as Mr Squeakl said what amendments all LDS had proposed on the Home Working Committee, nor did he propose a single amendment. What he himself was trying to propose in his own name as a proposal for an amendment to the home working body is not, of course, an amendment by the LDS Group of Members. But, you see, that's a fact. And when Mr. Squeakl speaks of facts, the facts are not well written. He turns them into his theory and manipulates them, and it's simple populism. Everything's going to turn into LDS, just populism.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Rezman. This was supposed to be procedural, but it was more of an explanation. Mr. Squeakle, what do you want, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u234	First, I would like to replicate Mr Testen and then replicate what Mr Rezman has said if I am allowed, otherwise I am applying for the discussion below. So, first of all, a replica of Mr. Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u235	I think that neither I nor the one behind me will probably be forced to read again the contents of the amendment that I have read before and that we are discussing. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u236	Thank you very much. I'm going to talk about the amendment and I'm going to replicate Mr. Testen with the contents of the amendment. The aim of the amendment is very simple: to achieve that the Minister of Public Administration, like the Minister of Foreign Affairs, will not invent himself a circuit on how to get more money when the Government via the Minister of Finance, if it deems it necessary, limits the costs of ministers. It is therefore appropriate for the Minister of Finance to agree on photocopying costs. That's right. But you are rejecting this amendment. I apologize, however, but I asked the President earlier when the two Members spoke before me, why they were allowed to talk about everything but this amendment. The facts are as follows. This amendment is the only amendment allowing not another minister, like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to raise the costs for citizens in the key content of the law when the Minister of Finance has to limit it. Well, and if, Mr President, you only allow a thought about the procedure. I have proposed amendments to the Committee's amendments on the home working body as a Member, because this business is the only possible. This is what you Members of the ruling coalition have rejected and the law is closed. Therefore, procedurally, if you do not want to be on the blacklist of the Union of Consumers of Slovenia, reject the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 6? Check-in is on. I'm reopening the application if it's a technical error. Two of them checked in. Mr. Bogdan Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u238	Thank you very much. After all, I was watching some debate in my office because I was preparing for the next item, but still, I don't understand something. In the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law and in the main solutions of the law, Article 6 - I apologize, you can correct me - I understood that such costs, I understood that the costs of photocopying would be abolished. That's how I understood. If I got it wrong, I'm sorry. Now I don't know why the amendment is proposed, because for these reasons we see that a lot of things have been done for citizens and citizens. Now, if I think wrong, I'll still like to hear a word, perhaps even an explanation from the government services. But as far as I've been trying to read and to be present on my parent's working body, I understand that they are, this is the deletion of tariff number 9, which provides for the charging of a legal fee for photocopying official acts or documents in a state body. That's how I write it. The line means, the line! It means there's no cost, at least that's how I understand. If I misinterpret it, I'll be glad to have different explanations. And I think it's a shame to talk about it now, that we're going to charge something, which is being deleted, which means there's no cost.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u239	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u240	I think Mr Barovic needs to be answered by a representative of the government. We have drafted an amendment based on the dictates in the article and we want in the amendment, I repeat, to prevent the Minister of Public Administration himself from increasing the prices of what is official action with the administrative authority. Because we have seen this same act in the content of the Foreign Minister's Law. And I know how ministers work. Ministers act, calling it "rational for themselves, irrational for public finances" and therefore it is the Minister of Finance who is responsible for the financial situation and cannot allow the Minister of Public Administration to determine the coster himself. With the amendment, we want to achieve, above all, that the Minister of Finance will influence what the Minister of Public Administration will do. And we want this because the Minister of Finance has left to the Foreign Minister, who is obviously inadvertently spending tax money - I hope that this does not need to be discussed again, given that you are so scrupulously defending the inability to debate or preventing the discussion on the use of vehicles on the Foreign Policy Committee itself and because the Minister of Finance allows the Minister of Foreign Affairs to raise 70% of diplomatic and consular representatives, we want at least to prevent the Minister of Public Administration from doing so. I propose, however, in this amendment and later in the full vote on the law, that we reject the law and stop unnecessary cost-raising, by more than 70%, 3 million euros, 720 million dollars, these costs for citizens, citizens of Slovenia and, of course, those who operate with diplomatic and consular representations will be higher at the annual level. So far, about three to four million euros have been spent, and now this will be about three to four million euros. 7-8 million euros. That's a lot of money, and that's a lot of costs. Of this, of course, the Government is deliberately silent and for no reason, I regret that this law has been introduced into the procedure in the way it was, and I suggest that we simply reject it and send it back to the Government for re-examination. When this transitional period of the euro will pass, then I think a gradual, multi-annual 7-, 8-year-old, gradual raising of individual items would make sense. How quickly, however, this depends, of course, on the rate of economic growth - Mr President of the Government said yesterday that the situation is good. If the situation is so good, I believe that it is not necessary to raise the costs for citizens and citizens by 70%.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u241	Thank you. Any other interests? There's another check-in. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor. You don't want to discuss it anymore. Okay. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u242	I just want to explain, I hope I understand. In my judgment, it was quite clear on the working body when the debate took place: the deletion of Article 9 means that no more photocopying fees are charged, which does not mean that no costs are charged. And since the costs of photocopying are still being calculated, the Ministry has been given this power by this article to make a coster. So that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u243	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u244	One more time. Main solutions to the proposal and amendments to the law. It is proposed to delete tariff number 9, which provides for the charging of the administrative fee, hereinafter the legal basis is laid down for the issuing by the Ministry responsible for public administration. And now we're talking about it all the time and I'm gonna say we're shooting each other. It is clear to me, too, as the predecessor has said, but I still ask, if there is a possibility, I would now like a clear picture from the Government that we will not argue with each other, because we all want to benefit those who benefit from the funds provided for in this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u245	Thank you. Mag. Spread out, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Dear Members, honourable Members! Just an explanation of photocopying. A photocopying fee is hereby lifted. Photocopying is not the administrative action of the administrative authority as proposed by this law. Photocopying shall be charged on the basis of the cost incurred by the Ministry of Public Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u247	Thank you. Any other interests? Mr. Squeakle, you've already given up the debate, as I understand. You weren't appointed. There's no more business. I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 17th item of the agenda or no later than 20.50 hours. This concludes this agenda item. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u248	Mr President, I think you have violated the rules laid down in the National Assembly. I didn't see who was even registered, there wasn't my name up. That's the first one. Secondly, Members and Members have the right to debate at the time available to the Group of Members, especially when the representative of the Government provides us with additional information. Here you have gravely violated the Rules of Procedure. I believe this is an unpleasant story for you, too, if the government raises the costs by 70%. That's why I object to what you just did. You prevented a member of the National Assembly from taking advantage of the time available to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u249	Procedural proposal, Mr. Squeakl?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u250	I'll make a procedural proposal. My procedural proposal is that you return the procedure to the point when Mr Šircelj spoke and, of course, allow the Member who raised his hand to declare his vote in accordance with the new rules. But when I was thinking about what I wasn't going to say, I hope you don't have a look at my thoughts. That's why, Mr. President, I think you've been gravely violating the Rules of Procedure. It was said that there was no limited number of reporting cycles, and you refused the possibility of another reporting round. Therefore, please allow me, as a Member, to take advantage of the time available. I think you've simply done what you know to do here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u251	It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u252	Three minutes, Mr. President, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u253	It's already expired, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u254	It hasn't been three minutes. You guys can watch, you just didn't turn it on. If you'll allow me to finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u255	Be so polite and finish your procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u256	I'll be done, Mr. President. And I just want you to put this procedural proposal to the vote. I would like to know whether Members will allow this to be done as they did in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u257	We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Economic Zones Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give my word to the government's representative. Mr. Shircel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! The fundamental purpose of the amendments and the addition of the Economic Zones Act is to harmonise the Economic Zones Act with the European Commission guidelines on State regional aid for the period 2007-2013. The guidelines have changed as a result of political and economic developments since 1998, inter alia, due to the enlargement of the European Union on 1 May 2004 as well as to the accession of Bulgaria and Romania.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u259	Mr. Shircelj, allow me to establish peace in the hall. Mr. Squeakle, please take your place. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u260	Thank you very much. The guidelines have changed as a result of political and economic developments since 1998, including the enlargement of the European Union on 1 May 2004, the accession of Bulgaria and Romania and the accelerated process of integration of countries within the European Union, followed by the introduction of a single currency. This required a comprehensive review of the guidelines with a view to preparing and adopting new guidelines that would apply from 2007 to 2013. The basic basis on which the guidelines are based is that regional aid, inter alia, can be a successful development factor only if it is used in a moderate and proportionate manner. As a result, in particular ceilings on aid should be allowed, proportionate to the seriousness of the problems affecting the development of the regions. Moreover, the positive effects of aid on the development of the regions must go beyond the State aid resulting from distortion of competition. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law amend or supplement the conditions for the enforcement of tax advantages for business in economic zones. However, the bill does not change the focus of State aid mainly on regional development and employment promotion. During the period 2002 to 2005, six users of the economic zone, which were also liable to corporate income tax, exercised tax advantages for business in economic zones; three of them were established twice and three once in the Koper Economic Zone. The benefits of operating in zones expire at the end of 2009, which is already laid down in the law in force and this proposal of the law does not change this. This is a scheme approved by the European Commission by that date. The key changes and additions to the law are: between activities which cannot be granted State aid for initial investments and new jobs associated with them, the synthetic fibre industry is added to the activity; the ceilings of the aid are changed so that they do not exceed 30% of the eligible costs, with the proposed distinction between small and medium-sized enterprises; for a small undertaking, the ceiling may be increased by 20 percentage points; and for medium-sized enterprises, the ceiling may be increased by 10%. For tax advantages related to intangible assets, conditions are added, namely that these assets must be used exclusively for that user, they must be treated as amortised assets, they must be purchased from a third party on market terms, they must be included in the assets of that user and kept for that user for at least five years; and in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, they must be included in the assets of that user for at least three years after purchase. With the proposed amendments, there will be no significant financial implications for the budget. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u261	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u262	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. At its 24th meeting, on 17.1.2007, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic Zones. The material or proposal of the Legislative and Legal Service, or comments on Articles 2 and 3 and 5, has been received. We have reached proposals for amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups by Articles 3 and 5. These supplements follow the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that, on the basis of the reasons given, the amendment to Article 3 shall contribute to the clear and unequivocal application of the definitions used, as the Commission recommends, while the amendment to Article 5 removes a disagreement with the constitutional principle that the rules must be published before they enter into force. The purpose of this proposed law is therefore to harmonise the basic text with the guidelines in the State, regional aid for 2007-2013 on the basis of a given commitment to the European Commission. This amends or complements the conditions for the enforcement of the tax advantages of employment in the economic zones themselves. The Committee adopted those amendments to Articles 3 and 5 and prepared a supplementary proposal on the basis of Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure, which it proposed to the National Assembly to adopt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u263	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman will postpone the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Well, our presentation will be relatively brief and let me just say in the introduction that we are going to support this bill of amendments and additions because we believe it is well prepared. Of course, the second question is whether the Economic Zones Act itself brought what it planned to bring. And if we judge by the information that we have been provided and that we have heard from the Secretary of State today, then it would probably not be a mistake to assess what would have been said, very little of what was expected was realized, one economic zone itself, a few companies or companies in this economic zone, and a very modest number of those who are serving in this tax area. And that probably tells us that what this economic zone law expected was not fully achieved. Even these changes that we are witnessing now do not have ambition, at least we do not understand it in such a way as to accelerate the number of those who would be beneficiaries of these benefits, and there is no indication that as a result of this, business in the economic zone will increase and that there will be more economic operators, that more jobs will be open and so on. But despite the fact that we need to comply with the guidelines applicable for the next period and which have already entered into force in the European Union days ago, we support this proposal for a law. There remains a fundamental ambition to promote regional development, new jobs and so on. The conditions and scope of state aid are changing, and we will probably have to wait for some time to see whether there will be less distortion of competition or whether there will be more jobs, or whether there will be more jobs that have been saved that have been threatened with termination. That's something that this moment probably doesn't show to prophesy. The DeSUS Group will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u265	Thank you. Ms Maria Possonec will present the position of the delegation of the National Communities. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u266	On 23.12.2005, the European Commission adopted new guidelines on State regional aid, which will apply from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2013. It is therefore necessary to harmonise existing regional state aid schemes, including the granting of State aid to operators in economic zones. The provisions of the bill thus amend or supplement the conditions for the enforcement of tax advantages for business in economic zones in the manner and extent to which they were adopted in those guidelines. I think that this form of assistance is very interesting to the economy and I would like to say that I think regional state aid is important and useful because the economy is being drawn forward. However, I would also like to point out that it would be good to consider that, not only in ports, airports would establish economic zones that would draw the depressed landscape from behind. Therefore, I propose that the Government consider changes in this direction, including in empty buildings, at the border crossing of the Long Village, at the Slovenian-Hungarian border, because this part of Slovenia has been severely lagging behind economically compared to other areas of the country. Perhaps this form of assistance would have drawn this province from its depression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u267	Thank you. Mr Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, too, will not go into detail because the applicant in the introduction has already presented in detail the solutions to this law. I'd just like to say a few generals, our findings, or our opinions. In principle, we support in the Slovenian Democratic Party State regional aid, which contributes to the development of the economy and entrepreneurship. This means that we also support the application of tax advantages for business in economic zones, which are intended for companies that create new jobs and which also have initial investments or investments. We are aware that economic zones and certain tax advantages are only one small segment of regional aid, which is unfortunately served by a very small number of companies. Perhaps also because economic zones can only be established in the field of airports and ports. However, there are some companies operating in regions that, after their development or perhaps some other criteria, still deserve some benefits. However, it will be necessary for these to find some other levers for incentives or aid, but I also think that it will be necessary to check at the same time the system of these State aids or these incentives in full. In short, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want to have a transparent and coordinated system of these aids in Slovenia, which will be effective and which will be at the maximum role of some coherent regional development. The law under consideration preserves these economic zones and thus certain tax advantages. At the same time, the conditions for the application of tax benefits are being amended or supplemented in a manner and to the extent that they have been adopted by the State and regional aid guidelines for the period 2007-2013. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Economic Zones Act. At the same time, we want such zones to be as many as possible and there will also be more companies to benefit from these benefits in order to invest and open new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u269	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u270	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting to the government's representatives! Messengers and Members! In the New Slovenia Group, we are following with interest the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Economic Zones Act. We'll support the bill. At the same time, we would like to announce our continued efforts to ensure and accelerate coherent regional development through an appropriate state aid strategy. Amendments and amendments to the law are necessary in order to adapt to the new Guidelines on State regional aid in force from 1 January 2007. Since we support the business environment in the New Slovenia Group of Members, we do not want to block the adoption of 55 companies with a friendly law, although according to customs and tax administrations all these companies are located in one functioning economic zone in Cyprus. In 1998, the Economic Zones Act was intended to contribute to the more coherent regional development of Slovenia through customs, tax and administrative benefits. The law allowed the opening of economic zones only in international ports and at international airports. In fact, this means that in Slovenia a new economic zone could only be established at the Brno airport. Research has shown that the law cannot be an important regional development incentive. The development indicators of Slovenia in the State aid section also confirm that the developmental orientation of state aid was poor in 2003 and 2004. The most developed European countries have devoted almost half of state aid to help small and medium-sized enterprises and to regional objectives, while Slovenia has a weak 7% and 4%. We therefore wish to reiterate the importance of regional development in the New Slovenia Group on this occasion. We are confident that the country's competitiveness as a whole will be achieved only through the development of the regions. We are aware that regional aid can be a successful factor only if it is used moderately and proportionately and focuses on the most disadvantaged regions. As requested by the Commission, regional aid must be granted under a multisectoral aid scheme which is an integral part of a regional development strategy with clearly defined objectives. By adopting the bill, we are giving the possibility to further implement the existing scheme, to grant state aid to operators in economic zones. In the New Slovenia Group, we will continue to support such forms of state aid as will be intended for the development of the most backward regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u271	Thank you. Mr Kristijan Janc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Government representatives! Greetings to the Pensioners of Mozire on the balcony! Dear colleagues and colleagues! If the DeSUS representatives were short, we will be even shorter in this presentation. The proposed Economic Zones Act is only about harmonising guidelines and national, regional aid for 2007-2013. The guidelines were adopted by the European Commission in 2005. On 30 March Slovenia also committed itself to align its State aid schemes with the amendments adopted last year in a letter to the European Commission. The novelty thus amends the conditions for the enforcement of the tax advantages of employment in economic zones in accordance with the adopted guidelines of the European Commission. The new law was also adopted unanimously on the home labour body, so to speak, without discussion. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree with the proposed amendment and will support it as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u273	Thank you. Mr. Sašo Pece [[He's not here.]] Mr Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected colleague and a few colleagues! The bill on amendments and additions to the Economic Zones Act, while reading the contents of the law, brings some content that I personally assessed with a plus, something with a minus. First of all, I would like to point out that I still do not find a definition or meaningfully defined terms of "small and medium-sized enterprises", which play a major role in this content. I believe that the Legislative and Legal Service has also warned when adopting or deciding on a shorter procedure for adopting this law. What is the definition or significance of a small and medium-sized enterprise. Now I'm getting to the plus and minus points that this law offers first. When applying a tax advantage for co-financing initial investments or for opening new jobs related to initial investment - this is essentially a purchase of an establishment that has been shut down or would have been discontinued if not sold - a condition is laid down for such an establishment to be purchased by an independent buyer. That's one good plus for me, because we know that otherwise these so-called merchants are good at the soul of investors, as much as you want, but no one comes. Buy cheap, expensive sales and go. But it's a matter of changing borders, helping. On the one hand, the aid limit of 40% of the eligible costs can be changed to 30%, i.e. lower, and the ceiling can be increased, according to the law, if the user of the economic zone is a small business. Now we're there. However, if the user of the economic zone is a medium-sized enterprise, the upper limit may be increased by 10%. Of course, all those who want to invest and implement this law will take advantage of this option, but I now really ask myself what is, where is the precise definition of a small business and what is a medium-sized enterprise. He also specified something very questionable, at least for me or the Slovenian National Party. In the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, we are already using two terms, which are not clear, and there is also a reduction in the retention period for newly opened jobs associated with the initial investment, which is a period of three years after the completion of the investment. It's a three-time, very mundane diction. That's what we're warning from our judgment. It is likely that it will be possible or possible to add itss to the Legislative and Legal Service or perhaps to the Government's representatives. We are, in particular, pleased with the expected tax consequences if the user of the economic zone, before the expiry of a certain period of time, withdraws or transfers the basic asset from the economic zone or does not meet other conditions such as that the user must return the proportionate part of the State aid received during the tax period during which that transfer or removal takes place or the condition is not met. This measure, distinguished representatives of the Government, is very welcome because many have served very well so far. And the last part. That the law establishes who is considered to be more difficult to employ or which definition is taken into account for the purposes of the law, the definition of the rules on the granting of State aid in the field of employment. This part is also very unclear for us in this context of ambiguity and perhaps we could hear clarification at least on our presentation of the Slovenian National Party's views on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Zones. Small, medium-sized enterprises and what it means, especially if not others, is the last thing considered more difficult to employ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u275	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 17. Agenda item - On the proposal of the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005 The proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005 was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Mag. Expand, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The key objective of macroeconomic policy in 2005 was to reduce inflation to a level that allowed the euro to be taken over in 2007. The fiscal policy objectives of 2005 were also subordinated to this, namely reducing the public financial or budgetary deficit, improving the quality of public finances and adapting to the pressure on public finances resulting from Slovenia's membership in the European Union and NATO. Realised inflation of 2.5% was planned, while the budget deficit of 90.9 billion was lower than planned. The Court of Auditors, when it revised it, delivered opinions on the proposal for a final budget account with the aim of delivering an opinion on the draft general part of the final accounts on the correctness of the implementation of the financial plans of the individual audited budgetary users in 2005 and on the evaluation of the planning and reporting of the objectives and results of the selected sub-programmes, which means that the Court of Auditors, of course, gave an opinion. Thus, the Court of Auditors delivered an opinion on the proposal for the general part of the accounts for 2005 subject to the method of recording the collection of debt for the public institution Oncology Institute of Ljubljana, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia and the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. The government will propose amendments to the Public Finance Act to the debt takeover recording regime. The Court of Auditors issued an opinion with reservation for the correct implementation of the budget for 2005 and one positive opinion, two negative opinions and 12 opinions with reservations were expressed for the correct implementation of the financial plans of the individual ministries. In planning and reporting on the objectives and results selected by the sub-programmes of the ministries, there has been an improvement in more than half of the ministries. Dearly noted, 1630 billion tolars of government budget revenue were realised in 2005, representing 96.9% of the budget adopted. In the 2005 budget adopted, 252.3 billion tolls of income were planned for income generated at the end of the year, amounting to 256.7 billion tolars. In 2005, amendments to the Income Act entered into force, which provided for a different way of calculating and paying income payments during the year, which is also one of the reasons for this increase. In the 2005 budget adopted, corporate tax revenues were estimated at $146.3 billion and $142.4 billion was paid. In reviewing the monthly flow dynamics of this tax, we can identify higher inflows in the first five months of the year, resulting from the final accounts submitted and the calculation of the corporate income tax for 2004. By the end of 2005, $121.2 billion had been paid from the tax on paid salaries to the state budget, representing 3 billion dollars more than planned. In 2005, however, the amended Wage Tax Act entered into force, which reduced the rate of accounting for this tax by 20% this year. In the 2005 budget adopted, domestic taxes on goods and services were estimated at 906.2 billion tonnes of revenue, total revenues amounted to 918.7 billion dollars and domestic taxes on goods and services totalled 56.4%. From value added tax, 589 billion tolars of revenue were planned and 607.7 billion tolars were realised, meaning 103.2% of realisation or increase of 3.2%. In 2005, EUR 230 billion of excise duty was paid to the state budget, which is 7.3 billion less than anticipated. The total excise duty in 2005 represents 14.1% of the state budget's realised revenues. The key factors that have affected excise revenue, particularly mineral oil, which is the largest here, are the price of oil on the global market and the ratio between the euro and the US dollar. Nearly 111.6 billion tax revenues were planned in the 2005 budget rebalancing. The total amount of non-tax revenue realised, representing 5.5% of all budget revenues, was 89.5 billion dollars in 2005. The 2005 budget rebalancing also planned 49.2 billion tolls of participation in profits and income from assets. The actual realization amounted to 45.6 billion tolars, the difference comes from planned but unrealised revenues from the grant of an UMTS concession of 5 billion tolar. The most important types of non-tax revenue include tax revenues and charges, which in 2005 accounted for around 1% of the total budget revenue. Here we must say that they have been reduced mainly because of their entry into the European Union and customs fees have been reduced, and the Law on the General Administrative Procedure and the Regulation on the acquisition and transmission of data between public authorities has also affected the reduction of fees for the purposes of administrative procedures. In addition, another 32.5 billion other non-tax revenues were planned, and in fact almost 18.5 billion revenue was paid into the budget. Following the entry into the European Union, the first European financial year was in 2005. During the 12 months of the year under consideration, we planned 115.9 billion of the funds received from the European Union budget. The resource efficiency of 72.5 billion tolars received in 2005 reached 62.5%. We have received the most from this title through the implementation of the common agricultural policy and lump sums. Budget expenditure. In 2005, according to the principle of cash flow, 1,721 billion tolars of expenditure were realised in the State budget, representing 97% of the approved budget of the eligible spending rights. The lower implementation of expenditure than foreseen in the adopted budget is mainly due to unrealised projects co-financed by the European Union budget, the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund. Wages and contributions from government employees representing fixed budgetary commitments were paid at 223.9 billion or 100.6% of the budget adopted and increased by 1.6% in 2004. Expenditures on goods and services amounted to 147 billion tolars, representing 88.1% of the budget adopted. At the same time, the realisation of these expenditure on goods and services is at the same level as that level in 2004. Domestic interest payments were paid at 60 billion tolars, which means 100%. Foreign interest payments amounting to 28.3 billion were also realised and were, in reality, 5.3% lower than in 2004. Subsidies amounted to 87.3 billion tolars, representing 108.8% of the budget adopted. The main reason for greater implementation is to ensure additional spending rights for rural development measures at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The higher spending on subsidies originally foreseen was also for the programmes of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy, i.e. to co-finance the implementation of regional development programmes, the restructuring of the Sava region, development assistance in Posoča, coal mine closure programmes and the like. Transfers to individuals and households were also paid above originally planned in 2005, amounting to 224.3 billion, 102.6% of the budget adopted. Transfers to non-profit organisations and institutions amounted to 12.2% of the tolar or 80.8% of the budget adopted. For other current transfers, including payments from the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, public institutions and social security funds, municipalities, public funds and public agencies, and other non-direct budgetary users, 716.2 billion dollars or 99.1% of the budget received were used. For the purchase and construction of basic funds, payments amounting to 64.3 billion tolars and 78.4% of the budget adopted were made. Investment transfers to legal persons other than budget users were 40.6 billion or 75.5% of the budget adopted. Payments to the EU budget amounted to 68.6 billion and 93.6% of the budget adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The realisation of the revenue and expenditure of the 2005 State budget shows that the budget deficit amounted to 90.9 billion tolars, one billion tolar less than the initially projected budget deficit in the 2005 budget. In the financial claims and investments account, the benefits realised were higher than the realised expenditure of EUR 2 million 721.909. The amount of the debt established by the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004 and 2005 amounted to 411.4 billion tolars for 2005. In 2005, the government owed 413 billion tolars in arrears and budget deficits, while at the same time repaying a debt of 400.5 billion tolars. This is actually the balance sheet of the country in 2005. Your Honor! The Government proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the 2005 budget of the Republic of Slovenia with a final account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u277	Thank you. The proposal for a final account was considered by the Commission for the supervision of the budget and other public finances as the parent working body. I give my word to the chairman of the commission, mag. To Milan M. Cwickle, to present the report of the commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u278	Mr. Minister, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Commission for Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance considered the proposal for a final account for 2005 in November and December 2006. The presidents of the working bodies were invited to consider the draft budgets, as is the case in all EU countries, at the same time as the proposal for a final account. I'm afraid that wasn't done. In the course of the hearing, the Commission therefore had to go through the entire state budget and first concluded that the representatives of the Court of Auditors had highlighted some key errors and uncertainties. The opinion, which we also took note of - the Court of Auditors’ audit opinion, found that the general part of the accounts was subject to reservation. With regard to the revision of the correctness of the implementation of the direct budgetary users of ministries, only one positive opinion was given, the Ministry of Education and Sport, two negative opinions from the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Transport and 12 opinions with reservations. The main problem of which the Commission held the most discussions is the correctness of the presentation of public financial balances in Slovenia, where it was found in the audit report that the budget deficit is too low for 49.3 billion tolars. Compared to 2005, the budget deficit is 70 % higher, 80 billion in 2004 and 140 billion in 2005. The Court of Auditors, in its opinion and in its debate at the Commission, stressed that there was a particular problem with the continuation of the model of action relating to inadequate performance in 2005. It goes on to say that, after we have not shown an adequate level of expenditure for health and pension allowance in 2005, on the debts of the Oncology Institute, it is the same for certain other indirect budgetary users, public funds or even public undertakings or state-owned enterprises. What's the problem here? The problem is that the State does not, on the one hand, provide sufficient resources for the operation of these users and, on the other hand, allows them to be indebted or to provide guarantees of debt. That was the difference of 50 billion in 2005 and it will also be obvious in 2006 for railways, for defence and very important, this is my comment as President, which we have just done in the administrative fees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Court of Auditors points out that this is the wrong pattern of operation because it is not appropriate to allow the guarantee of an obligation to then assume the debt of those or the guarantee to be paid by creditors. The problem is that for the first time, we have a very large correction in the Court of Auditors' statements, the formal balance sheet of the Republic of Slovenia. It is therefore important that we talk here today about the fact that the budget deficit in 2005 is up by 70 % compared to 2004. After consideration, the Commission adopted certain findings and conclusions from its competences, in particular that it is still to note errors in the determination of the remuneration of public contracts, subsidies to be recommended to the Government to take into account the recommendations regarding the planned reporting of the objectives achieved, and that the Commission recommends to the Government and the ministries mentioned by the Court of Auditors at the end of the audit report that they also inform the Commission of the achievement of the objectives requested. The Commission has also considered the consolidated asset balance and has proposed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide, after the implementation of the Real Estate Act, a complete inventory of the state assets and also an annual preparation of the consolidated asset balance. This is the first budget of the Government of Janez Janša and the Commission finally proposed that the Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia Budget 2005 be adopted by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u279	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u280	Nice greetings to all present. Dear colleague, dear colleagues. At the outset, I would nevertheless like to make one comment and ask that the person appointed by the working body to present the opinion does not abuse this and that it does not represent a personal position to then run out of time to present an opinion. The final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005 show the implementation of the first budget of the current ruling coalition, planned by the previous Government and proposed a rebalancing. The revised budget for 2005 has been implemented in the planned frameworks, as we have already heard several times today, and this is also reflected in the Commission's findings on budgetary and other public finances. If we first look at macroeconomic achievements in 2005, we can see that the key macroeconomic policy objectives in 2005 were aimed at reducing inflation, and this was subordinated to fiscal policy objectives, namely a reduction in the public financial or budgetary deficit, which was planned at 21.9 billion tolars and achieved a slight reduction of 90.9 billion tolars. The majority of macroeconomic categories for 2005 achieved planned indicators and positive trends. The growth of 3.9% was the same as forecast and was largely based on a high real export growth of 9.2%, which is significantly more than planned, and a moderate increase in imports of 5.3%, which is lower than planned. Inflation was achieved at a planned rate of 2.5% per annum and resulted from coordinated fiscal and monetary policy measures. If we take a closer look at the global realization of the revenue and expenditure of the 2005 budget, we can see that the total revenue of the state budget was EUR 1,630 billion and expenditure of EUR 1,721 billion, which means that the deficit amounted to EUR 90.9 billion for the 2005 financial year, which was all realized under the planned or rebalanced budget for 2005. However, an insight into the internal structure of the total revenue or total revenue in the so-called general part of the budget shows that in 2005 we have not, as is known, achieved the desired targets in the use of funds from the European Union. Instead of the planned 115 billion tolars, actual receipts of funds from the EU were 72.5 billion tolars or 63% were planned. The result was, of course, lower than planned expenditure on investments and investment transfers on the state budget expenditure side. As we know that European funds are being used for difficult projects, which take years to prepare and plan, it is clear that we were not the most prepared when Slovenia entered the European Union on 1 May 2004 in this segment. The data also show that Slovenia has not taken measures in time to make European funds more efficient. On the other hand, the poorer efficiency is also due to the complexity of the procedures that we have, in fact, lovingly, in many cases brought together ourselves. The current Government has therefore adopted a series of measures in early 2005 which we estimate will allow Slovenia to draw on all the funds allocated to it in the period until 2006, and these measures will, in our opinion, also allow for a better absorption of funds under the new financial perspective, which will be completed in 2013. Of course, we will be able to verify the effectiveness of these measures very soon, either this year or at the beginning of the next year, when we consider the final budget account for 2006. In accordance with the law, the Court of Auditors must carry out certain audits each year and, as we know, this includes a revision of the correctness of the implementation of the State budget. As for the 2004 budget, the Court of Auditors has divided its task into three parts or three types of State audit, namely, in the first part of the revision of the general budget accounts, in the second part of the revision of the compliance of the budget with the rules and in the revision or evaluation of the planned objectives and reporting on the objectives and results of the selected budget programmes and sub-programmes. With regard to the first part of the general accounts of the State budget, the Court of Auditors, as we have heard, delivered an opinion with reservation, mainly because it misjudged the performance of the debts incurred on the basis of the deficit of previous years, i.e. before 2005, in the other two public treasury offices, is said to be in the Pension, Pension and Disability Insurance Office and in the Health Treasury, according to the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, and to take over the debt from the Oncological Institute; that is, because the debts taken are not shown in the balance sheet of income and expenditure, but only in the balance sheet. However, as regards the latter, we have witnessed a lively professional debate between individual auditors and other accounting experts on the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances. In the parliamentary group, however, we believe that it would be right for the future Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors to harmonise the correct way of demonstrating such unique or similar events in advance. Nevertheless, the fact remains that a law was passed in a particular case in this National Assembly and that the collection of the debts of pension and health allowance was carried out under this Act, and we believe that this is correct and is not disputed in any way. Let me also say that these debt takeovers are properly reported under the ESA 95 European methodology. With regard to the audit of the compliance of the implementation of the budget as a whole with the rules, the Court of Auditors issued a so-called opinion with reservation. This opinion was drawn up on the basis of audit opinions made by individual ministries and could be said to have somehow averaged the audit opinions allocated to individual ministries. Perhaps it is good to look at a little statistics, as the Court of Auditors' findings also suggest that the situation is improving in this area. For 2004, one positive opinion was issued, the same for 2005, which we are considering today. In 2004, 10 opinions were issued with reservations, in 2005 12 negative opinions were issued in 2004 6 and in 2005 two opinions. So if we look at statistically, the trend is positive, but I think that the content is more important than the statistics in this particular case. The third segment addressed by the Court of Auditors is the audit or evaluation of the planning of the objectives and the reporting of the objectives and results of the selected budgetary programmes and sub-programmes. On this segment, the Court of Auditors found improvements in relation to 2004 in more than half of the ministries. Despite the improvements made by the Court of Auditors in its audit opinions, we are aware in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group that we must not be satisfied with what has been achieved. We believe that it is necessary to pursue such a culture of public responsibility, which will not allow those who are entrusted with public administration to derogate from the principles of economy, transparency and effective governance for public funds, but rather from acting in accordance with laws and other rules. I would like to point out at this point that the criteria for expressing the degree of irregularity, except when it comes to expressing opinions on the accounts, do not prescribe audit standards. For example, in a negative opinion, such as the Ministry of Culture, we can ask ourselves on the basis of what criteria this ministry has earned this negative opinion. If we look at the audit report, we can find that it states, as one of the shortcomings or irregularities, that it is mainly the two public institutions, the Slovenian Philharmonics and the Institute for the Protection of the Cultural Heritage of Slovenia, and the Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, that the Ministry has earmarked funds for their regular operation before their authorities have adopted the necessary additions to the annual programmes, and that there has not been a regulation that provides that this should happen before the transfer of funds takes place. It is interesting that the Court of Auditors wrote that the Ministry of Culture had already been alerted to this irregularity in two previous audits, according to 2004 and 2003. It is interesting, however, that the Minister of the former Government received views with reservation on those same observations and that the current Minister received a negative opinion, although it was a perfectly identical situation. Of course, in the parliamentary group, we expect ministries to establish reliable internal control systems for the implementation of the budget and at the same time ensure a sufficient number of internal auditors that will successfully prevent the emergence of possible irregularities, the uneconomic and ineffective functioning of public funds users. In this direction, we also expect the Ministry of Finance to establish an information portal for public procurement as soon as possible. In the parliamentary group, more effective action in preventing irregularities and implementing remedial measures is also promising from changes in the powers and responsibilities of the Court of Auditors. Here I think it is necessary to follow the example of modern supreme audit institutions, which, in their audit reports, not only disclose improperly or recklessly, i.e. inefficiently, inefficiently and unsuccessfully spending budgetary or other public funds, but at the same time formulate proposals for the implementation of the necessary corrective measures and recommendations and periodically and closely monitor their implementation and report on this to the legislative authorities. In the last part of the audit report, the Court of Auditors has also tried to provide an assessment of the planning and reporting of the objectives and results achieved by the selected sub-programmes, and in doing so has created a question and criteria for its evaluation, by end granting estimates from 1 to 4, with one worst estimate, 4 best. In this regard, it was found that more than half of the ministries in 2005 have seen improvements in relation to 2004, but the path towards the results of targeted budget planning is likely to be very difficult and will be a long time ago. Allow me to illustrate with some example this fact - that we may know not only how much budget and other public funds have been allocated to each programme, but also what has been the effectiveness of the use of these funds and what has been the success, or whether the expected effects of public expenditure have been achieved, I think it will be necessary to change the thinking, not only of individual laws in this area. For example, if we illustrate this position in the case of one action implementing an active employment policy, then we should not be interested in adopting a state budget just how much, or how much less, than in the year before, we will devote to such a programme or sub-programme. We should be interested in how many unemployed or latent unemployed will gain new qualifications or new higher education by using these funds and where they will then get new jobs. In other words, we should be interested in whether the expenditure of the budget for such a programme, called an active employment policy, actually had an impact on the reduction of the number of unemployed. Any increase in funds for this purpose should be justified by criteria. However, if these funds for an active employment policy are also shared in the future with educational organisations that are educated for jobs that are not in the job economy, there is likely to be no impact from such budget money spent. I think that we will probably be forced to face this sooner or earlier, despite some opposition that we are likely to receive from these educational institutions, and in this way we will be forced to deal not only in this way, but in all the programmes where public funds are being allocated for certain measures, which will then result in some concrete results. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group welcome the progress made in the effort to increase responsibility for the proper economic, efficient and efficient use of funds and other results achieved in the implementation of the 2005 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. For these reasons, we will support the 2005 Final Account proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u281	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u282	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ministers, Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we have examined the 2005 Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia, while also reviewing the audit report on the 2005 Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia, prepared by the Court of Auditors of Slovenia. In addition, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we note that 2005 was favourable in terms of ensuring public financial stability and thus the possibility of implementing the 2005 budget. In 2005, we recorded 3.9% of GDP growth, 9.2% of export growth and 3.7% of investment in fixed assets. This means that the economic situation in 2005 was more favourable than the estimated situation when the 2005 budget was adopted. A review of the implementation of the 2005 budget shows that on the revenue side of the 2005 budget there are the largest deviations in relation to the budget received from the European Union. Implementation was only 62%. In this context, funds for structural policy are particularly drawn up under the heading of the Regional Development Fund and the Social Policy. There are also large differences in cohesion policy funds, with only 1.8 billion won from the European Union in 2005 instead of 10.2 billion Slovenian tolars. The implementation of the budget on the expenditure side is also appropriate. While the government has practically fully implemented the planned expenditure in the state administration, amounting to 99.5%, only 78% of the investment expenditure is realised and only 84% of the investment transfer item. It is also interesting that the Government was above average successful in subsidising public companies. This item is thus exceeded in the budget as the index is 104. In its 2005 Report on the Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia, the Court of Auditors issued an opinion with reservations for errors and ambiguities for the general part of the 2005 accounts. In this way, one positive opinion was given to individual budget users, twelve opinions with reservations and two negative opinions were given for the correct implementation of the State budget as a whole and an opinion with reservation. The LDS Club continues to identify, on the basis of the 2005 audit report of the Final Account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, that the implementation of the budget in 2005 was a type of irregularity and non-conformity, with some to mention. The Oncological Institute of Ljubljana, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia and the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, for which the State has taken over the debt, has not been shown to be in charge of the State in the financing account. This is a total amount of 49.3 billion Slovenian tolars. From the point of view of the correctness of the business, the Law on Accounting cannot be circumvented by an individual law. Slovenia is reporting a higher budget deficit to the European Union by ESA-95, as shown in our final account. It was added to take over the debt of those institutions. In this way, the Government shall report different information to the National Assembly, which shall adopt the budget, from the data transmitted by the Government to the European Union. On the one hand, the State does not provide sufficient resources for the operation of indirect budgetary users and, on the other hand, allows them to be indebted and gives them guarantees of debt. Then he takes over their debt or the guarantees are cashed by the creditors. These debts are then not in the balance of income and expenditure, but only in the financing account. However, this does not increase the budget deficit, but increases the net indebtedness of the state budget or the possibility of increasing debt through the repayment of guarantees. The Court of Auditors found that virtually all ministries did not comply with the rules on employment, salaries and other personal benefits. Non-compliance with the rules is when taking on commitments from the budget, when awarding public contracts and when awarding transfers. In particular, the negative opinion of the Court of Auditors of the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Culture is worrying. Let me mention just a few cases of violations at the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry of Transport thus concluded a contract or annex to a contract which was not in conformity with the offer. It has paid off funds from an item that was not foreseen for this purpose. The contract was awarded without invitation to tender, despite the fact that the conditions for the award of the contract were not met without prior publication. It allowed substantial changes to be made in the execution of the contract in relation to the successful contractor’s offer and recognised the invoice issued in a higher amount than the works were carried out. Let me also mention a few cases with the Ministry of Culture. The payment of the liabilities under the budget thus did not take into account the prescribed payment period, it paid an account before the services were provided, it concluded a contract and paid the funds, although the legal conditions were not met, and it financed two public institutions and a public fund which did not have a certified work programme and a financial plan from the Council of the Institute or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the above findings, the LDS Club will not vote in favour of the 2005 Final Account proposal, while at the LDS Club, we hope that the Government will take into account the Court of Auditors’ comments and that such irregularities will no longer occur in the 2006 Final Account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u283	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u284	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, the Honourable Minister - she is no longer - distinguished representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues! The Social Democrats' Group notes that the implementation of the 2005 budget has not improved much compared with the implementation of the previous year's budget by comparing the Court's audit reports for both years. With regard to opinions with reservations, negative opinions and positive opinions, only the resources that have received one or the other assessments have changed. However, the content of the infringements, which sought such opinions, did not change much. There has also been little improvement in the absorption of funds from the European Union. An increase of 7.5% after a year of rule by the new government, which addressed a large part of the previous government's perceptions precisely because of the inefficient capture of revenue from the European Union, cannot be a reason for great satisfaction. Infringements of the Public Procurement Act are one of the main reasons for the opinion with reservation, and unfortunately it is evident - this can also be seen in the monitoring of the 2006 budget implementation, for example when buying operating tables, helicopter transports, armoured personnel and could also be mentioned - that the situation in this area is not improving further and therefore it is difficult to talk about some positive trends. It is interesting that a positive opinion from the Ministry of Health in 2004 fell between opinions with reservations. What is ahead of it when the 2006 budget is revised can only be guessed in the light of the problems that accompany the Ministry of Health. The deterioration of the situation at the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Transport is also interesting and there is nothing more to note that some mistakes and shortcomings are quite unusual. Like, for example, the extraordinary expediency of the Institute of Public Administration at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, which was able to deliver the professional basis for the preparation of the toll regulation before these grounds were even ordered. And even more, before the Institute himself even delivered his offer to the contracting authority. It's no big deal, it's very expedient. Otherwise, the Social Democrats' Group notes that the final budget account is a fact that cannot be changed. Except for the determination of the extent of actual indebtedness, for which there was no will in the coalition part of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. The fact is that taking over the debt of the Institute of Health Insurance, the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and the Oncology Institute represents an increase in the indebtedness of the state budget. And it is unusual for data from our Government to go to the European Commission in a different way than the National Assembly. However, in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats, we will not oppose the proposal of the Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u285	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u286	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting to the government's representatives, Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposal for a final budget account for 2005 as well as the proposal for a finding proposed by the Commission for budgetary and other public finances as a parent. On a proposal from the Government, when we adopted the 2005 budget rebalancing, we set ourselves as the main targets the achievement of convergence criteria for taking over the euro, the early establishment of the Schengen border, stable economic development and also balanced public spending. Today, in the opinion of our Group of Members, we are pleased to note that we have achieved these objectives to a large extent. Despite the Court of Auditors' very unanimous conclusion, as well as the Commission on Budgetary Control and other public finances, that the final accounts of budgets from year to year are better, with the results achieved in 2005 we cannot be satisfied. Of the 15 ministries audited, two received a negative opinion, in 12 cases with reservations and in one case a positive opinion. In the New Slovenia Group, while we are committed to public finances for consistent compliance with the law, this is the only way to ensure that adequate transparency and accountability are achieved in the management of public funds. We are also convinced that the Law on the Court of Auditors needs to be amended in that direction in order to reflect more in a balanced manner, in addition to legality, the efficiency, efficiency and efficiency of the use of public funds. Members of New Slovenia are convinced that the proposed amendments to the already amended legislation on the system of public sector wages and public procurement would help to make future opinions for auditors more favourable. Today, they rarely get a positive opinion. Another important aspect, which we think would be well taken into account, is the provision of adequate professional staff in budgetary consumers, which would also mean lower costs in addition to a better longer-term business. In the New Slovenia Group, we are satisfied with the implementation of the budget on the revenue side as well as on the expenditure side, as the realisation of revenues is 96.9% and 97%, while the budget deficit is 90.9 billion dollars, which is about one billion less than anticipated. Lower revenues as well as expenditure are mainly due to the poor use of European funds. It is good, however, that many efforts are being made to make use of these funds, to improve things, to draw on available funds in the coming years, and that we are still at the annual level of net beneficiaries and not net contributors to European funds. As regards the comments made in the Court of Auditors' report, I would mention only four specific cases, which, in our view, are very important. Negative opinion of the Ministry of Transport. This opinion and the correction of errors should be given special attention due to the large error rate and also due to the large resources available to the Ministry. The Ministry of Culture received a negative opinion because the Slovenian Philharmonic and the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage of Slovenia did not have a certified programme of work or financial plan from the Council of the Institute and the Ministry still paid them funds to finance salaries. In this case, it was the non-conclusion of the institutions in these two users, and therefore we do not consider this error to be very much. In its report, the Court of Auditors had a comment on the collection of the deficit from the previous years by the Institute of Health Insurance, the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and the Oncology Institute. The Court of Auditors requested the Ministry of Finance to make cases when amending the Public Finance Act in such a way that there would be no more irregularities, that was the Court of Auditors’ request. We are also concerned about the poor implementation of investment expenditure as well as investment transfers identified by the Court of Auditors, but in our view it is mainly due to public procurement legislation as well as to poor and untimely projects. Finally, Members of the New Slovenia will support the 2005 Draft Final Budget Account because it has made it possible to achieve the above-mentioned objectives because the budget rebalancing has significantly increased investments in state roads, which have been neglected in the past, because the rebalance has significantly improved the material position of the municipalities, since they have imposed only liabilities in the past, without funds, because the rebalance has significantly increased resources for economic development, which has an important impact on the level of economic growth and employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u287	Thank you. Mr Kristijan Janc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u288	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Government representatives, colleagues, unfortunately not. The proposal for the Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005 addressed the realisation of the revenue, expenditure and deficit of the state budget. The parent working body, the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005. The final account relates to the period that has passed, and the funds have already been spent during this period. From this perspective, it is impossible to correct the implementation of the budget, but it is important that the final account shows real, true data and in a transparent manner shows the country during the period to which it relates. If we look at the implementation of the 2005 state budget, we see that the implementation is relatively high in terms of the 2005 budget rebalancing. I would not like to repeat the data because they were already presented and heard. A specific indicator of the correctness of budget implementation is the review of the Court of Auditors’ audit report. This notes, however, that the situation in the area of the correctness of spending on public finances from year to year is improving, but there are still some shortcomings that need to be addressed in the future. I would like to draw attention to some of the facts that the Court of Auditors has established otherwise. The lack of coordination between the Tax Administration and the Ministry of Finance in the tax field is particularly problematic. This is a matter of very sensitive questions, so these inconsistencies need to be resolved as soon as possible. With a modern information system with this, at least in my laity opinion, we should not have any particular major problems. The low realisation of EU revenues is again identified for 2005. This information is not new for the year before, and we agree that there is a need to increase the realisation of EU funds. We expect that the 2006 statements and, of course, this year and next year will also be more encouraging in this area. It would be more than irresponsible not to take advantage of supply options and resources in the face of other public money shortages. With regard to the problem of taking over public debt, which has in particular been done for the Health Insurance Office, the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute and the Oncology Institute in Ljubljana, we expect the Government to ensure that, in accordance with the Court of Auditors' opinion, debt takeover will be defined as a country debt in the future. Among other things, perhaps at first glance the smaller observations made by the Court of Auditors, I would like to say something about the anomaly in the area of salaries of employees in the state administration. This is a well-known article of the Public Servants Act 96, which is the only possible way to easily and effectively increase the salaries of a civil servant. In this regard, the Court of Auditors draws attention in particular to the issue of pay-out of work also for the period of absence from work. At the same time, it notes that the individual ministries have a very large number of employees who receive allowances for increased work under Article 96 of the Civil Servants Act. These are at one of the ministries of state at 17.4%. It is more than obvious from this information that the supplement is also accounted for in cases where individuals are unlikely to be entitled to it. At least in view of the purpose of Article 96 of the Civil Servants Act, it certainly does not. Actually, it's not that problematic in itself. Given that we are constantly stressing the decline in public spending and the reduction of many public sector employees, a little more attention should be given to this. Above all, the issue of fairness and equality between employees in different ministries and other state bodies is being raised. It is generally known that some ministries in Article 96 are very generous, while individual ministries and state authorities recognise this allowance only exceptionally for a month or two. This area will certainly need to be regulated in a manner consistent with the aim of the legislator when adopting Article 96 of the Civil Servants Act. There is a need to ensure adequate comparability between all civil servants. In conclusion, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the Commission's conclusions on budgetary control, we expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, individual ministries and other state authorities to follow the instructions of the Court of Auditors. Therefore, there is no reason in the Group of Members not to support the proposed budget for 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u289	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u290	Your Honors are here! Today, under this item, we are talking about the financial situation in the Republic of Slovenia in 2005. Therefore, it is reasonable to stress from this title - and hand to heart, we stress this every year at the end of the account - that, regardless of whether the National Assembly approves or rejects this public financial act today, there will be nothing to do with it. Therefore, even if the National Court of Auditors today rejects the final accounts, it is negatively defined, is proved to have errors in the individual budget lines following the example of the Court of Auditors or in the example of all other supervisory institutions in our country, this will not affect future public financial acts in any way. That is why we or better are told, so on the one hand I feel it is a shame to have this time, because the maximum purchase, the point or message of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia may not get credit for past work in the field of public finances or not get a good trip, so that public finances such as these are done in 2005. Many of you have highlighted the role of individual supervisory functions, individual events within individual ministries and come to more or less the same conclusion - mistakes have occurred and we all want these mistakes not to take place in the future. Therefore, I will not repeat this work on the basis of those speakers who were critical to the Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia's 2005 budget. However, I would like to point out the fear, which is a kind of constant in the context of the planning of implementation and in the final stage also planning for the future in the field of public finances in our country. Regardless of the individual tax laws or all those laws that affect public finances through the provisions on the amount and structure of revenue in the state budget, we generally see that the structure of the basic public financial act, that is to say the budget, does not change in our country from year to year. But it would be necessary, of course, to change. So we see that for 2005, over 90% of the state's power from so-called tax sources was strong. Once again, and in fact, I say this at every time of the adoption of any public financial act, which means that we are actually burdening exclusively citizens and citizens through those sources that are legally defined. And if they, citizens and citizens, do not settle them against the State, they are, of course, financially responsible. So, I don't think any country, no national assembly, and not least no government, which is the original author of this kind of public financial policy, can be satisfied and beaten on the chest, if we know how good public finances we have within our country if we know that more than nine-tenths of the total revenue feeds the budget of those items where, if they are not, its own citizens and citizens would be sanctioned. From this title, the Secretary of the Government, Mr Šircelj, commended us in his opening presentation for the fact that we, in the framework of our revenue or I apologize for increasing the implementation of the plan in the context of our tax revenues - I think he said or writes for 3 billion Slovenian tolars. It is of course interesting, however, that what he has pointed out is, above all, in the headings, that he has increased and additionally burdened citizens and citizens, because, if it is favourable to the budget as income, this is unfavourable for citizens and citizens. Because this means that in the existing structure our citizens will have to contribute more to the public finances framework, and not least to all of us. Thus, revenue from income and profit taxes, contributions from the tax on the payment sheet, labour force, property tax, goods and services tax and, last but not least, taxes on international trade and transactions increased. From this title, in that year, the Ministry of Finance or better said to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has indeed managed to obtain more financial resources, but only from parts or revenues consisting of A to Z, and no one has been released, so-called tax revenue; that is, those revenues which burden each of us and which I personally believe cannot be commended by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Finance. Each of us or any citizen of the Republic of Slovenia knows that in the short term it is possible to fill a state treasury by raising taxes; and this is not an argument of appreciation, even before the State of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia could obtain financial resources from another source available, that would be a reference and a praiseworthy one. Regrettably, however, the second part of the so-called recent revenue available to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, for which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has all the instruments, but unfortunately does not use them, has been released by the Secretary of State - or in its own opinion - by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or at the direction of anyone from the Government of Slovenia - from his opening appearance. So let me tell you from this town that the non-tax revenues in that year, which is 2005, have decreased by over 20%. And if we look at individual sub-items or accounts in the context of tax revenue and other revenue, we see that everyone has achieved a lower indexation in order, but not a lower indexation per 1%, 2, 3, 4 or 5, but we are facing a reduction of these assets to 50%. Allow me to raise capital revenues from this city, for which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has estimated, according to its long, professional and very expensive analyses, that it will obtain them by 100%. At the end of the year, it turned out that these very expensive ones and their assessment of quality research led them to make half the mistake and so on from this title, i.e. capital revenues, only 59% of the planned amount, i.e. the 2005 budget rebalancing. However, I highlighted the 2005 budget balance. So it's already the 2005 budget correction. So if we were to talk about the basic budget, that is, the pre-rebalancing act, of course, this indexation would be much more in favour of saying that in our country, those who deal with public finances can not have much to plan. A similar issue, except that the numbers are more catastrophic for citizens and citizens, because the loss that occurred in this area between budget revenues has been covered by citizens with higher taxes, in the context of account 73 we have received donations where we have losses or differences between the planned balance and the realization by more than 50%. And then, of course, that permanent matter, which is repeatedly exposed, but again exposed in a different form, received funds from the European Union. In addition, whenever there is a public appearance, at least a government representative, there is talk of the amount of funds received, of having individual local communities cover their deficits through calls within the European Union, of how the state will build that road, school facility, landfills, through funds received from the European Union. But in 2005, it appears that the realisation of these assets was below 100%, even below 90%, below 80, below 70, and even below 60%. From this point of view, it is necessary to ask whether then the direction of the Government, the individual local community, to cover the deficit created by the legislation from European resources, if it is not able to do so, is sufficiently credible. I don't think so. I will continue with the deficits, deficits or differences between the plan and the implementation both in the area of the funds received from the EU budget for the implementation of the common agricultural policy, the funds received from the EU budget for structural policy, the funds received from the EU budget for cohesion policy, the funds received for the implementation of the internal policy, where it is very interesting that our public financial planners or employees in the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have been mistaken for around 91% and have planned for 91% more in this year in this area than was later adopted in the second half. From this place it is important to ask or answer the basic question of what would happen if the National Assembly of this kind of financial anomaly, which the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia addressed as the final account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005, would not accept. The answer is very simple: nothing would happen. Next, we will meet with budgets for next year, we will meet with the same, virtual bluff, similar coefficients, plans, realizations and assessments, with vertical lines that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia presents to us. From this address in the National Party, we will not attach the said act, as the said act before us would, of course, be a mere silence for public finance planners, that this is how it is done in the future. But the way it works in 2005 must not be given to the "heat" of the National Assembly and thus to the green light, so to speak in the field of public finances in the future. In his opening statement, the representative of the Government minimised the role of the Republic of Slovenia in public finances within the Republic of Slovenia and maximized the role and activities of the Government in the context of convergence criteria and orders for the preparation or acquisition of the euro. It is necessary to ask whether in 2005, that is, in the act before us today, whether the Government has in fact completely neglected citizens and citizens during that period and has been the only task, including within the Ministry of Finance, of taking over the euro. I think it's bad if it was the only job. That's what the government representative said. I still believe that, especially during the period of our own monetary unit, because we are talking about 2005, we should make sure that this is quality, but not that we are losing money on non-tax revenue in the future. I believe that from my performance, none of the government's representatives will draw anything that would motivate him to do his work for future budgets. Therefore, from this city I can only express the hope that, at least in the future, ladies and gentlemen, whoever sits in future governments will learn only one thing: public finances are not your personal finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u291	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u292	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Members of Parliament, representatives and representatives of the Government! Members of the DeSUS will contribute to the adoption of the 2005 Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia. It is a pleasure to see that inflation and budget deficits are lower than planned. In the future, the country must strive to reduce public finances and to reduce deficits in the state budget. We believe that the current Government is following this difficult objective well with its actions, but despite the favourable dynamics of macroeconomic indicators, the planned implementation of budgetary revenue and expenditure has not been achieved. The irregularities cited by the Court of Auditors in its audit report are quite something, and it is worrying that they are repeated in the light of previous years. There is a lack of compliance with the rules on employment, salaries and other personal benefits, an irregularity in the take-up of commitments and the award of public contracts and irregularities in the allocation of transfers. The result of the audit is only one positive opinion. The two ministries have earned the greatest grace, for all the other ministries that have received opinions with reservations, and we cannot say a praiseworthy word. Members of the DeSUS therefore point out that, in the first place, it is necessary to ensure the full legality of spending on public funds as soon as possible. We do not approve of references to regulatory inadequacy, as we estimate that the budgetary users are committed to proposing to remedy possible irregularities and inconsistencies. In doing so, let me point out the problem of drawing on European funds, which is at a very low level in Slovenia. In 2005, we managed to realise only 62.5% of the possible European funds. In this regard, it is imperative to act as we are constantly facing a lack of resources on the one hand and, on the other hand, we are not taking advantage of the given or offered opportunities that we have as a member of the European Union. This warning must certainly be taken extremely seriously, since in the event of non-use, these European funds will have to be returned to the European Commission's account. However, a very important warning relates to debt collection, which according to the Court of Auditors was not properly demonstrated as the country's indebtedness in the financing account, namely from the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and the Oncology Institute in Ljubljana at a total value of 49 billion Slovenian tolars. As a result, the budget deficit is also shown for that amount too low. Despite many years of warnings in our country, we still do not have a central register of assets, although the Public Finance Act 2002 requires the establishment of this property. As a result, in Slovenia we still do not have a complete review of all the property of the country, which represents a significant disadvantage in the management of state property. The shortcomings identified for 2005 cannot be remedied and it is therefore necessary to take into account the Court's guidelines so that such shortcomings do not occur in the future. Unfortunately, we can understand from the audit report that there are still too many opinions with reservations, so our Group appeals to all ministries and other budgetary users to carry out their public finances obligations more precisely in the hope that the next budget period will be even more successful than it was in 2005.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u293	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the draft act. I will only call on those Members from the list of those who are present. Mr. Janc has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Rudy Versnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u294	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! In the financial year 2005, revenue was realised by 3% less than planned. The implementation of expenditure represents 97% of the approved spending rights in the 2005 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The lower implementation of expenditure than foreseen in the adoption of the budget is mainly due to unrealised co-financing projects through the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund. It follows from the realisation of the revenue and expenditure of the budget that the budget deficit of the revenue and expenditure balance amounted to a billion dollars less than the initially projected budget deficit in the 2005 budget balance. In the calculation of financial claims and investments, the realised revenue was higher than the realised expenditure of 2.7 billion tolars. The amount of the debt established by the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004 and 2005 amounted to 411.4 billion tolars for 2005. In 2005, the government owed EUR 413.1 billion in debt and budget deficits, while at the same time repaying a debt of EUR 400.5 billion. This financial situation of the general part of the final budget was audited by the Court of Auditors. It is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and 15 ministries. They revised the correctness of the implementation of the financial plans, 15 direct budget users, representing 94.3% of the budget expenditure. For the general part of the final budget account an opinion was delivered with reservation, as well as for the correct implementation of the State budget as a whole. One positive opinion, 12 opinions with reservations and 2 negative opinions were expressed for the correct implementation of the financial plans by ministries. On the basis of the irregularities found, it was estimated that between 4.5 and 9% of all payments from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005 were considered to be worth between 4.5 and 9% of such expenditure, which contained irregularities in the procedures themselves. Since all the irregularities revealed could not be resolved already during the audit and some could not be remedied at all, appropriate response reports were also requested from six ministries. The comparison of audits in 2004 and 2005 differs in the fact that more than half of ministries are improving their planning and reporting situation in 2005. However, there is a warning that much more will have to be done in this area, particularly in raising the awareness of ministries that planning cannot be flat-rate, generally but that it must be based on some concrete and legible indicators, indicators and criteria, because without this it is impossible to measure and then talk about any progress. Despite undisputed progress in the management of public finances, there have been repeated violations of public procurement all the years since I have been monitoring the accounts. It is true, however, that the amounts of such infringements are lower from year to year. In the area of payroll, there is also a lack of compliance with the legislation each year and therefore irregularities found. Every year, we face a shortage of the information system of the so-called MFRAC when considering the final account and reviewing it. I therefore rightly expect that there will be a replacement either with a newer version or with a completely new programme. The consideration of the final accounts for 2005 showed that the Court of Auditors does not revise computer applications, which is certainly a huge flaw for me. In all respect for the problem of the acquisition of adequate personnel, this type of audit is necessary today, as large funds are being used in the public sector, so no matter what is being bought and how much is being paid for such a purchased software package. As a yoke of snakes, a non-executive requirement of the Public Finance Act is drawn from year to year requiring the regulation of the central register of state-owned assets. This area has not yet been fully regulated, although the agreed deadlines expired in 2005. Let me conclude by finding that the management of public finances is improving from year to year. There have been fewer and fewer errors in the revision of the regularity of business. However, I expect more audits of the profitability of the business, which bring real measurable added value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u295	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u296	Thank you for your word. All in attendance are warmly greeted! It is true that the final account is a document or financial document that cannot be amended because it shows the actual state of financial realisation. But it probably shouldn't be the reason that today you, representatives of the government, are here now more than we Members to discuss the final account. I believe that it is very important that this government has covered the 70 billion budget gap in 2005 when it adopts the budget; that, with the adopted budget in 2005, we have allocated 10% more resources to local communities; that, at the end stage, the final account, according to the overall realization on the revenue side, has been reduced or has not achieved a 3% reduction in the budget, which is the same as on the expenditure side, because it is also due to lower expenditure, which is also evident from the final account on the basis of precisely this, because we have not achieved on the revenue side the realisation on the one hand also from the point of view of drawing on European funds. Well, I believe that there is nothing left behind in drawing on European funds and that now the projects are ready and that the task of all ministries is, in particular, those who will have the European funds at their disposal, the possibility of drawing on European funds, that these funds will also actually be drawn up and that there will be more inflows than inflows into the European cash register. As regards the reports of the Court of Auditors on individual ministries, I also find or wish to say that they are actually repeating themselves in the departments of the Ministry of Auditors exactly the same as in the review of the municipal budgets when we have a visit to the Court of Auditors. In particular, public procurement is always problematic and, on the other hand, payments of personal income. It's kind of a cancer wound on one side of the local community, as well as we see the departmental ministries. I expect that in the future there will be fewer opinions with reservations, not to speak of negative opinions. And there will certainly be more to be done on this segment. However, I must say as I think some of the predecessors have already mentioned that somehow we don't know or yet they don't know exactly what the Court of Auditors is saying when we're talking about economics, certain receptions that someone is just going to do in order to make two out of one -- we've been talking to the Court of Auditors before -- now the euro. After many times someone succeeds, but then the Court of Auditors finds that everything is not as it should be on the basis of legislation and that the law says so, but it is necessary to do so. I observe these matters, and I have sometimes warned myself, and I hope that in the future on this segment, as one of my predecessors has mentioned, that this area, as far as the Court of Auditors is concerned, will also have to be regulated by law. I will support the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u297	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u298	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr Secretary of State, Secretary of State and Government representatives. First of all, I should like to start by saying that, as a Member, I will not support the final accounts for 2005, simply because the differences between the statements before the audit and the errors found and the statements after the audit are too high for me. The error of more than 40% of the budget deficit is unacceptable. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia had every opportunity to demonstrate the deficit more appropriately on the basis of the identified, unequivocally identified errors of the Court of Auditors and, of course, this is the final budget account which does not respect the Accounting Act. The Accounting Act requires the full disclosure of expenditure and, as I said earlier on behalf of the President, this was also the main topic of the discussion. I will not support this final account simply because, after we are Members and Members of the National Assembly, particularly members of the opposition, the Government has warned that it cannot, by special law, oblige accountants not to disclose the expenditure of the Institute of Health Insurance and Pension Cash like, in saying, "the appropriate part of the expenditure of the state budget". It is necessary to increase current transfers by 45 billion to these two public institutions; these public institutions would be the ones that would repay the country's debt and then the country would have a higher budget deficit as a legal person and would, if necessary, be re-indebted. In short, we cannot agree to the logic that the Court of Auditors has found that not enough money is first provided for the operation of indirect budgetary users and then debt collection is allowed. Of course, at the time of the discussion at the Commission on Budgetary Control and other public finances, I was trying to suggest to the representatives of the Government that they should forward to the National Assembly a new table on revenue and expenditure and, of course, also on the accounts of financial claims, showing correctly that in 2005 we did not spend only 1,044 billion on current transfers, but that billions of Euro1.089 200 million should show the amount of government budget expenditure. What's most banal here? The most trivial thing is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is providing the EU with such a well-exposed budget deficit. However, not only because of the ESE 95, as the government will now explain, but simply because the representatives of the European Commission and the European Central Bank, taking into account the principle of cash flow, know that all expenditure must be shown, as they have had a substantive impact on individual balances. Mr President of the Government spoke like this yesterday when we make a mistake and correct it. Well, first of all, I must say that this was only done in helicopter transport, because the board decided that it could not sign and pay for contracts which it had not taken over when accepting. And if, of course, the Government of Mr Janez Janša corrects the errors found, then the error found in the audit report, which is clearly shown on page 30, would also be corrected by the Government. No, that's not it. Mr Minister of Finance and the rest of the Commission began attacking the Court of Auditors first, and then I do not know who else, the President of the Commission, that we are misleading the Slovenian public. The fact is that the budget deficit for 2005 is 148 billion in the European Union, of which 139 billion is due to a better presentation of the budget deficit and then a small difference due to other public funds and others that we do not have in these first state budget balances. Now, what's the problem here? The problem is that we are misleading the Slovenian public. In 2004, there was a deficit of 80 billion. Let me remind you, this deficit was 80 billion because on 8 October, Mr Finance Minister Dr. Marble stopped public spending after the lost elections. It stopped public spending, and this did not result in the implementation of a type of investment. And then the government says that in 2005 the deficit is only 10 billion more, despite what they said was a so-called 70 billion hole in 2005 and I don't know what the government said. That's not true. Comparative figures are very clear: in 2004 there was a deficit of 80 billion and in 2005 there was a deficit of 140 billion. These are the facts. These are unequivocal facts. And these are the mistakes that should also be made in numbers. And if the National Assembly simply passes the Court of Auditors' opinion here and publishes a final account in the Official Journal, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has provided it to us, it will mislead the Slovenian public. You will publish in the Official Journal that the National Assembly has adopted the final accounts for 2005, and you will say that the deficit was 90.9 billion, even though the Court of Auditors found that the deficit was 140 billion. And we will have because the Court of Auditors hopes this year to discuss in this National Assembly how we will politically subordinate the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, if, as they say, they use the wrong standards and so on. Just as it was on the committee - that the auditor doesn't know what she's doing. That interpretation of the Accounting Act can be different. And now, of course, the Minister of Finance says that it will be possible to correct the Public Finance Act, where there will be only one deficit. There is no doubt that the independent supreme audit institution has already found a significant derogation for 2005 under the Slovenian Constitution. And this essential derogation needs to be corrected. It needs to be corrected in general and in a specific part of the budget, otherwise you will publish a lie in the Official Journal. In the Official Journal, we publish statements in accordance with the Public Finance Act and the Accounting Act. And the Court of Auditors' opinion here is very clear, unequivocal. But if this lie, which of course we will be discussing in the future, is confirmed and published, it will also be stated for 2006 that the public transport agency’s debt does not need to be expressed as the expenditure of the state budget, although it is clear to everyone that the Public Railway Agency, which received 100 billion, 99.6 billion, of possible debt, has no basis for this money to be owed. No one's gonna give her credit for this unless there's a government guarantee in the back. And here we will be again discussing with independent analysts of the Bank of Slovenia, whom you say you do not know what they are doing. They know exactly what they're doing. The only difference is that they are based on methodologies that are internationally comparable, not on what you have done as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance will now tell the Secretary of State how a special law was passed in the National Assembly, which said: show the debt takeover only in the balance sheet. This was a legal norm, contrary to the Accounting Act, contrary to Slovenian accounting standards: accountants, show debt takeover only in the balance sheet. When I asked Mrs Director-General of the Public Accounting Sector what the Charter of Auditors is, what is the basis, she said it was a law. But there's still an accounting law. And this marriage was broken. The Public Finance Act has always existed and, of course, the Supreme Audit Institution has found that the budget deficit has been misrepresented. We are almost at the end of the discussion on the Rail Transport Act. At this meeting of the National Assembly, we will receive him. As a result of this Rail Transport Act, we will also be working on a rebalancing for 2007 and working on amending the 2008 Budget. Then we'll do the right thing. The expenditure will include the expenditure of the railway agency. That's what we're gonna do. As with the expenditure of the State budget for 2005, according to the gross statement principle, the expenditure of the State budget covering the loss, health and pension liabilities should be shown. That would be the right thing to do. And the health pension box would be in excess in 2005, and the story would be clear. So it's not clear anymore. The health department has some levelling of revenue and expenditure in 2005. In fact, in 2005 we covered the higher expenditure of the health treasury in recent years. And how did we cover them? We covered them with the burden of taxpayers, not the burden of health insurance contributions. Taxpayers helped the health cashier to cover the minus. And that must be proved. And the expenditure that taxpayers contribute to the state budget turns out to be current transfers to the health treasury. These are common, all accountants, the financiers of known facts. That's what I'm going to object to accepting this final account for myself. When we look at some of the other things, it is particularly interesting what has been seen at the 2004 budget for previous teams not to respect this or that law. However, when you look at the extent of non-compliance with the rules in a series of budgetary categories and ministries, you will see that this list is getting longer. Two ministries received a negative opinion. We talked a lot about one ministry at the time of Minister Simoniti's interpretation. It is impossible that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not ensure throughout 2005 that the financial programme of the Slovenian Philharmonic is adopted and that it works as if it does not matter. And, of course, the Court of Auditors finds that this is wrong, that because this has been done, a negative opinion should and should be issued. It is not true what the Minister of Culture said was worth a few thousand tolars, a few tens of euros in wrong wages. No, the Slovenian Philharmonic has played all year long without a financial programme duly confirmed on the relevant boards of directors. One of the key features of dealing with such documents in other parliaments is that matters are harmonised. And when the Court of Auditors writes something, it does not attack the Court of Auditors, but solves the problem. And last year, we had a lot of so-called attacks by the headquarters, the ministers, the ministers, one of the ministers, not even among us anymore, who said that the Court of Auditors does not understand what the Public Fund for Agricultural Lands is doing. The Court of Auditors understands that very well. In the debate at the Commission on Budgetary Control and other public finances, we found that there were quite a few laws that ministers understood in their own way, that there was a bit of an irrational spending, but in 2005, because this year was extremely high tax revenue, it seemed unnecessary for the Government to say, by the Court of Auditors, that there was an excessive focus on problems. Let me remind you, Members of the ruling coalition, that in your 3 December 2004 coalition image, one of the key issues on which, of course, your action in the field of public finances will change will be directed towards the legitimate and effective implementation of the budget. But only a year later, for the first budget, it turns out that it is not legal and that this difference at the level of the budget deficit is quite 70%. Not to mention, of course, that it has been forgotten how content programmes will change, public spending, that objectives will be clearly set and those objectives will then be measured. It's all in your coalition contract. I was happy myself as someone who dealt with public finances for a few years in Slovenia, that Minister Bajuk wrote it down among his objectives. However, when the Court of Auditors for the first year of this mandate assesses how the objectives and tasks have been carried out and the objectives and tasks have been duly recorded, this point is not reached at all because it finds so much non-compliance with the regulations, regarding the Law on Public Servants, on the Law on Public Finance, on the Law on Public Procurement, on the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, on the Law on the Construction of Objects, on the Law on the Financing of Communities, on the Rules on the Procedures for the Enforcement of the Budget, and so on. And this is a normal situation for this government. In 2006, the Court of Auditors will also carry out a review of the functioning of the Ministry of Public Administration in paying for the costs of the renovation of the former cafeteria, the current cabinet premises of the President of the Government. Why February 2006? Because that's when the bill was paid. At that time, it will be established that the Rules of Procedure for the Implementation of the Budget have been violated, that the basic principle of the Government being able to spend has been violated if it receives a prior confirmation in the National Assembly. And then, or at least until then, it is likely that a change in the Court of Auditors should be made. Equilateral violation of the basic principles of public finances! The government, as executive power, cannot spend until it has been given authority in this National Assembly. Quite the same story, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in 2006 purchase of business premises in Brussels under the secret provisions of the Public Procurement Act. Like I said a couple of times, we're buying places like we're buying tanks. And a famous, probably already in the middle of this year a congress hall on the Hill was built. The same story - procedure started in 2005, all possible regulations were violated in 2006 in order to build something. I am pleased that in connection with the construction of buildings on our southern border, at least you have decided to change the law in the National Assembly after a rapid procedure, which will allow you to legally violate the constitutional principles of free access to goods in Slovenia. But for some key projects, you have gravely violated the fundamental principles of public finances. And when the Court of Auditors draws your attention to this in the 2005 report, you say the Court of Auditors does not understand. Members of the ruling coalition simply have to ask themselves whether this pattern of behaviour of this government will simply be allowed in advance. Or will you simply allow you to issue a guarantee in October, to reject an amendment in November to solve the problems on the railways, and in January instead of this guarantee, we are adopting the Rail Transport Act and it will take about 125 billion tolls, about 500 million euro of new commitments to the state budget. These are the facts. I asked Mr President of the Government about this yesterday, but I had no feeling that he understood me because he was mixing Banka Slovenije's analysis with the Stability Programme adopted by his Government on 7 December at its 100th regular meeting. And if we confirm today's final bill, we're going to legitimize this pattern of behavior. It will be calmly announced in the Official Journal that in 2005 there were only 90 billion and not 140 billion differences between income and expenditure. It's a pattern of behavior. And because I doubt that you will attach to the warnings of the opposition Member, let me tell you that this is what the Court of Auditors is talking about. This is what the European Commission warns. This is pointed out by the European Central Bank. Last but not least, the Slovenian Central Bank warns. And in 2009, any coalition, any assembly of Members and Members of the National Assembly will face great dilemmas. Good times, high tax revenues will be over. That's what the government itself predicts. We're gonna have to cut into expenses. In the National Assembly, whoever sits here will have a difficult task. However, this difficult task will be particularly difficult because in 2009 it would be necessary to increase the transfer from the state budget to Dars due to some other commitments related to the completion of the highway on the Premurski leg. And this will not be all because a new model of action has been established within the mandate of the Janša government. I show the budget inappropriately, I adopt a special law for issuing a guarantee or taking over a debt, I create high expectations, I share money that I don't have, but it's no big deal. When the analysts of the Bank of Slovenia point out that they are politically subordinate to whom, I do not confirm the independent governor, and when the European Commission reminds me to clarify the details for 2009, Mr President of the Government says that there will be no catastrophic scenario. Unfortunately, this is not confirmed by the facts. The facts are that in 2009 it intends to cut the next coalition into expenditure under the stability programme. And I say myself that if we were to change the way we behave, if we accepted that we spent more than we had in 2005, and if we acted more rationally in 2007 and 2008, and it works more rationally by including railways among the expenditure if it is a priority, but some other expenditure is reduced already in 2007 and 2008, then the situation in 2009 will be worse. But no, such proposals by the ruling coalition will not simply be accepted because they either do not want to listen to an independent opinion or simply the Minister of Finance, together with the President of the Government, is unaware of the seriousness of the situation. The period 2005, 2006, 2007 after the amount of tax revenue from legal persons is uniquely high, these are unique events. We have all taken over our Slovenian euro coins these days, which is why we have a few ten billion dollars in the state's single income budget, a few ten million euros. That won't happen in 2009. In 2009, there will be no high income from corporate income tax, no tax on paid salaries, and it will therefore be necessary to cut for these EUR 600 million or to play with inflation and other well-known games. And since this is Mr Janez Janš's first final budget account, I would like to point out that the pattern of conduct you have taken in this budget is wrong. It is creating major problems already in 2006, which are behind us, creating a major problem for 2007 and 2008 and for 2009 it requires an unsustainable reduction in public financial expenditure. Therefore, because this pattern of conduct has been introduced into Slovenia, the restoration of the shade, the rehabilitation of the Janšev period will be one of the most difficult things for the following mandates. And this, ladies Members and Members of Parliament, we will have to do, you will have to work in this National Assembly. This is what the Court of Auditors reminds us of, what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should recognise and send to the National Assembly a new revised final budget account for the year 2005, which would have told everyone in the Official Journal that in 2004 we had 80 billion deficits, but in 2005 we were irrational, but we took on some debts, but that is why the deficit is 140 billion. These are the facts. And I hope that the Government will explain to us further and then it will be possible that if the President so decides, unlike the previous point for a while, we will still have to say what needs to be said on this important issue. The most correct thing would be, the President of the National Assembly, if such a final account were prepared with such great differences as to allow the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to revise and return the proposal for the final accounts of the Section of the National Assembly to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This was proposed on the committee I run. However, since the summer when this Commission has the majority of the ruling coalition, this proposal has not been politically accepted. However, I think professionally that this is subject to sufficient grounds and the Court of Auditors’ opinion of the Republic of Slovenia applies. But the government's independent opinions are superfluous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u299	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u300	Well, I've been thinking to this day that getting out of LDS didn't leave my colleague Brickle any lasting consequences, and I was obviously in the wrong. Amnesia must be one of the consequences that have happened to him. However, I wonder on this occasion what is the credibility of a policy that changes its opinion earlier than one month. All the conclusions and conclusions proposed as President of the Commission for the supervision of the budget and other public finances have been adopted unanimously. Among them was a proposal for a decision for the National Assembly, which reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005. Mr Cwickl also voted in favour of this decision as President of the Commission for the supervision of the budget and other public finances. Today, we are listening to what a disaster will happen and why he will not support this final budget account. So much for that. Indeed, the final accounts of the 2005 budget are the first final accounts of the ruling coalition or of this government, but this government has not prepared and not adopted by this National Assembly. We have received a correction, a rebalancing of this budget. We know what has happened during this transitional period and what can happen to the balance or what can be done - things are coordinated according to how they are expected to deviate from enforcement by the end of the year. During the autumn period this was adopted, which means that this is still the budget of the previous Government. If he was ill-planned and if the expenditure and income were wrongly set up, as you say, a respected colleague, then write it down to yourself. I think he was executed optimally. The indices talk about it, they move about 100%, which means it was done as planned. With regard to the alleged misreported deficit or the taking over of a long pension and health allowance, I believe that it is a piece of paper entertainment that is unnecessary or is not worth considering in the National Assembly. On the committee, we heard a multi-hour professional debate on whether or not this was done properly. It was made in accordance with the law adopted by the National Assembly. This is a debt from past years, and once it had to be recovered and displayed in the correct manner and it was shown in the balance sheet rather than in the income and expenditure balance. This is the end of the matter. The opinion of the Court of Auditors in this case does not speak as the President of the Commission does that the final account should therefore be corrected. It's not technically possible either. We know the law and we know the rules of the game, and there is no need to do so. I personally believe that this is the permission of such or other political sparks on the subject that is not best suited for this. However, the paper exercise was not worth billions of savings, which were lost in Sicura and other food and credit services, for which the current candidate for the future Governor of the Bank of Slovenia is also responsible. As was not the paper exercise cashed out the guarantees of various companies in respect of which the same person bears his share of responsibility because he was a finance minister at the time. And these guarantees were cashed. It's hundreds of millions of tolars that are also charging taxpayers. They weren't used for retirement, not medical bills. By the way, the famous helicopter does not go as planned due to the decision of the Management Board of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute, but because the procedure found that a regulation was contrary to the Public Procurement Act. At the same meeting, where the co-financing of this programme was refused, the same Management Board adopted an increase of over 200 million tolars in one year ago. Well, that wasn't much of a dispute for some of us. I think it's a bad practice. By the way, the Health Insurance Office receives positive opinions from the Court of Auditors throughout the years. In this regard too, I think it is necessary to ask where certain rules of conduct are positively evaluated, and these same rules in another segment are evaluated with reservation or negative. But we are not talking about this today, but we are talking about the 2005 final budget account, which needs to be supported, because there is no issue in it, because the Court of Auditors believes that progress has been made in the implementation as compared to 2004 in the exercise of correctness, economy and efficiency in the use of public funds. The use of European funds was problematic. I agree that this percentage of 63% is not optimal, but it is the best possible, given the circumstances in my opinion, given that it was nothing in 2004. No percentages were in 2004. We know how these funds are planned, how they can be used and which projects are used. I said in the introduction that the real effect will only be seen in the final account for 2006. I don't know what he's like, but I hope he's better than he was in 2005. It's probably only a few years later. There were a number of procedures and measures needed to be taken to release certain mechanisms that have also prevented our country from making more effective use of these funds. To end this many times mentioned Slovenian Philharmonic. In this view, it would be best to keep Slovenian philharmonics free of wages. I don't think it was the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture if the world of a public institution that has no interference with the Ministry has not done its job. It is true that this has been pointed out, but in my view this should be pointed out in a different way. If certain rules of the game are not set, the rules must be amended to ensure that they work. I doubt that it is the responsibility of the person who has provided the means for normal operation and that the philharmonics have been able to carry out their work normally, just as they have been charged with the institution's organisational act. I think that the final budget account for 2005 is better than the final accounts for 2004 and there is no reason and no reservation to be confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u301	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has reached out to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u302	First of all, it's not better because instead of 80, there's 140 billion holes. And that's quite a difference. Second, about the paper "basing." Banka Slovenije analysts said exactly the same thing as Ministry of Finance analysts in the stability programme. The differences are a half-percent point because, of course, the Ministry of Finance is still referring to a possible VAT increase or a higher VAT revenue rate. Bank of Slovenia analysts have already ruled this out of the forecast because there is no legal basis. So it would be good to discuss paper "dealing" very much. If the paper were "fun fun", then, of course, we would not reject the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia with any plot, or now after 10 years he is convicted of matters for which Dr. Arhar is responsible. The story related to food and credit services has a long beard and includes a number of activities or inactiveness either by the Ministry of Finance or Bank of Slovenia. Finally, the story of the Institute of Health Insurance and Helicopter Transport was mentioned. Helicopter transports were adopted and amended by the Government because of the lie of Mr Janez Janša. He said what we're complicating because the calls were made. No invitation to tender was issued and the Regulation has therefore been amended. However, as the Health Insurance Office assumed a new obligation, yes, according to the programme and the fact that there were some ten more cancer patients who needed the medicine and this required an increase in the scope of the programme. Would you like to wait for 2007? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u303	Thank you. Would you like a representative of the government or one of the Secretary of State? Mr. Shircel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u304	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Allow me to speak about 2005 because today we are actually talking about the final budget account for 2005 and to explain some of the issues related to the deficit and some of the statements that have taken place today in the debate. First of all, I would like to say that the Ministry of Finance and the Government acted in accordance with the law and in accordance with the legislation which was in force and which was in force at the time. Second. The information sent to the European Union is in line with ESA 95 and does not mislead anyone in any way, which means that there should be no open question here. Next. The Court of Auditors does not claim or require the Government or the Ministry of Finance to correct the deficit of 90 billion to 140 billion, but requires the recording of such transactions to be regulated by law. In this context, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted amendments to the Public Finance Act under the normative programme and the Ministry of Finance will propose to the Government that these legal shortcomings or, as I will also show, a legal conflict with the law of the offices. When the Ministry of Finance examined with all due diligence and with all precision how to record certain transactions, it had before it legislation which actually provided for this. First, what needs to be said here is that this registration, where it is essentially a debt takeover, is recorded in accordance with the Bond Relations Act or the Bond Code, where we are talking about what kind of legal transaction it actually is. I would also like to mention the legal basis, which is here we are talking about the Public Accounting Act. Only the Single Account Plan Regulation provides that, exceptionally, such transactions may be treated as cash transactions under certain circumstances. From this point of view, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Government and the Ministry of Finance have acted in accordance with the legislation when this transaction was recorded in the balance sheet. However, it is true that there is a possibility in this Regulation that such a transaction may be recorded or recorded differently. Why, in fact, did this deficit arise? It is due to the fact that the Government has concluded that the deficit created in 2002 and 2003 at the ZPIZ and the Institute of Health Insurance will cover that these two institutions will be able to operate without deficit and without any inheritance that would actually burden the payment of health services on the one hand and on the other hand also on the payment of pensions. Therefore, during this period the Government decided to take over this deficit and actually cover it in accordance with legal standards. By doing so, the Government did not in any way want and does not want to conceal this transaction in any way, but has written it in fact as provided for by the Law on the Takingover of Debt for ZPIZ and the Institute of Health Insurance. This means that she did the right thing with that angle. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that, given that the Court of Auditors has given certain opinions, certain comments, in the future legislation proposed by the National Assembly, this lack of consistency between the legislation has also been eliminated. With regard to matters which were also exposed in this area and are not related to 2005, some investments in connection with the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union and the like, I would like to point out that in 2006 and 2007 the Government is also acting in accordance with the legislation adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u305	Thank you. All the advertised debaters who were present and wanted to do so received your word. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm opening an application for anyone you want to discuss. Mr. Squeakl and Mr. Chernač have been reported. Mr. Squeakle has 27 seconds, but Mr. Blackach, I don't know if he has two minutes. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u306	Mr President, if I understand, you must share the remaining time, which is 1 hour and 14 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u307	Mr. Squeakle, it's only shared with those who haven't spent their time. Here you go. Time's running out.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u308	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What the Secretary of State has said has nothing to do with the facts found by the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors found a mistake of 49 billion, and any serious government would correct the mistakes. Any serious government would correct the mistakes, regardless of whether the Court of Auditors would require it. This is the case with each audit of each serious undertaking and the Government is a serious company, so it would be expected to say, as you tell the European Union, that the deficit is 140 billion.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u309	Thank you. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u310	Even because the helicopter was not available at the right time, people were dying, Mr. Squeakl. I read you the 2002 cases at the board meeting. Deception of 80 billion deficits, now 140 billion, knowing very well that the deficit in pension and health allowance was created in 2002 and 2003, so in 2004 it was also the same, slightly less than 50 billion, which means that it is 10 billion more deficits and no more. 90.9 billion deficits. This is a reliable information which the Court of Auditors does not object to. I think it is right that we accept the final accounts of the 2005 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u311	Thank you. This concludes the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the closing account today in the framework of the vote in half an hour, which is at 6.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u312	Ladies and gentlemen, if you please take your seats. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. I ask Members and Members to verify that the ballots have been submitted. Thank you. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - this is on questions from Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana M. Cvikla will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of mags. Milana M. Exercisel on the adequacy of the planning and spending of public finances. I'm opening a procedure to report an explanation. Please, on behalf of the Group of Members. We have two registered and, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, Member Milan M. Cvikl has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u313	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In yesterday's reply to my question yesterday, Mr President of the Government has deluded me. He was more troubled whether I was an assistant director of the Analytical Research Centre 17 years ago, by the way, and then, of course, we also wrote the Bank of Slovenia Act, which you will obviously want to violate this week. But it doesn't matter. It is important that we support today's procedural decision to hold a debate on the inadequate response of the Prime Minister. This is because the National Assembly adopted the 2007 and 2008 budget in November, and only 14 days later, the government said, these budgets are excessive, the need will be a rebalancing, changes in the 2008 budget will be needed, in order to increase spending, but 2009 will require very high restrictions on spending on social transfers, pensions, material costs, part of investment and, of course, subsidies. It is therefore necessary to hold a public debate in the National Assembly on the Stability Programme before it was transmitted to the European Union, the European Commission, because the Stability Programme requires this National Assembly either in 2008 or 2009 a very important interference with rights. The government assumes that 1,500 civil servants will be forgiven per year, that investment will have to be reduced in 2009, that some 50, 100 million euros will have to be reduced for health and pension expenses and that it will reach out to a large limit on social transfers. It's a stability program. The European Commission does not believe in this stability programme. It says that it is necessary to define in detail the measures for 2009 so that Slovenia can implement the Stability Programme. It's a very simple story. The year 2006 was [[End warning sign]] The deficit is €200 million, now €400, in 2009 it will be €900 million if expenditure is not reduced by at least €600 million. And he's got to talk about it. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Anyone else in their own name? [[No, no, ……]] Then we can go to the vote on the proposal just explained by my colleague Cvikl. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. We are moving on to a proposal from Mr Ljubo Germić to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Health, mag. Andrej Bručan, on the question of the special voluntary health insurance offer of the Adriatic Insurance Office. I am opening the application procedure for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. There's no wish for parliamentary groups. And also a procedure to explain the voice in its own name. Here you go, please. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u315	Thank you so much for saying that. The Adriatic Slovenian insurance company offers a new form of voluntary insurance, which means that the wealthier will be able to ensure that waiting lists are skipped or have the advantage of waiting for certain investigations against others who will not be able to do so. This raises a number of questions, including in view of the Minister's statement, which says that those who have more will find it easier to get to a doctor. In doing so, it is very important to ask whether this changes the health insurance system in Slovenia, which speaks of equality and justice and equal access to health services, and whether this accessibility will indeed depend on the individual's property status. This is a very important issue, as it is a matter of rights that are already rights in compulsory health insurance. So it's a duplication, it's a special form of insurance insurance, it's a right that should already be included in the compulsory health insurance system itself. And here the question is, "Is this a provision of public interest in health care?" Here we are faced with the question of what interest leads in less than a month to 5,000 people who have already applied for this insurance, which speaks in the opposite way. What the Minister says is that waiting species are substantially reduced. Of course, the great interest of people in joining this insurance is the opposite. In doing so, it is concerned that only those who are richer will be able to jump. In order to be able to discuss whether this is really a public interest, whether it is only the interest of this ruling coalition, I propose that we discuss this in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u316	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, the family is not a social issue, Mrs Marjeta Cotman, to the question of the question of the question of Barbara Žgajner Tavš on the envisaged changes in the area of social protection. I request an application on behalf of the groups of Members. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat. Here you go, please. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u317	Thank you so much for saying that. At this point, I will once again, as I asked you yesterday, to press the key for when you vote on this proposal. It is one simple, yet sad, fact, respected colleagues and colleagues. Last year, the Social Protection Act was approved in the National Assembly, unfortunately. Sadly, this marriage is very restrictive, restrictive, even to single - parent families, to those families that you do not want to be so deprived or often found on the brink of social poverty. And let me support words with one simple calculation, not just one woman who will be in this situation from 28.2.2007. This date is the date on which the amendment of the Social Protection Act, which I stress once again, is unfortunately adopted with the support of the government majority, the government coalition. The practical calculation shows: new from the whole of the social assistance, however, I hope you know that social assistance is the only source of money that enables this woman or this family to survive. If this supplement is more than €61, a child allowance shall be deducted from this amount. Another €61. And according to the new law, which will enter into force on 28.2.2007, the single parent family, the mother and child, will be deprived of 120 euros, respected colleagues and colleagues. Tell me if such a family can live a decent month. Some of you lose your face. Yeah, those are naked facts. And since the Minister didn't have a concrete answer yesterday, I, unfortunately, cannot accept these facts with a smile on my face. I ask you to support the Minister in this broad debate on what she will do to these people in the field of legislation. In her hands is the fate of these people. Does it actually allow for a decent survival of €61? I'm guessing no, so I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u318	Thank you. Is there any other desire to explain? I'm opening the application procedure on my own behalf. Here you go. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u319	Thank you for your word, Madam President. We also saw similar smiles on our faces when we discussed this law here in the parliamentary procedure, and then you were all very much defending the child and the single parent families, as well as this law, when we adopted it, all of this is regulated. Last but not least, the new minister acknowledged this poorly yesterday, because otherwise I would not say that she will be preparing a new solution in June this year, which will be more after year, even though I do not believe in such short-term solutions. I want to know what she was doing when she was a professional assistant to the former minister when this law was being prepared. Either the minister refused to listen or was misinformed at the time, as we have heard today that some professional associates or ministerial servants will do one thing a little later. This has somehow become a habit of this government, and the most beautiful smile was the smile of one of the Members when we talked about 61 euros of that livelihood or that supplement that would allow a child to live a decent life. "Try" and believe me, your smile will fade out of your face.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u320	Thank you. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u321	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I can say that I will not support this proposal from my esteemed colleague Barbara. I believe it's a lapsus. This law entered into force on 28.1. this year, which was adopted by the National Assembly at the end of last year. In no way does this law make the social situation of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia worse. There is certainly no man in Slovenia and an institution who, after a day's implementation of the law, could come up with some substantial analysis on the basis of which we could have a wider discussion in the National Assembly. I believe it is a lapsus, but the truth is this, the law entered into force on 28 January 2007, is one day before this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u322	Thank you. Member Aloys Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u323	Thank you very much. I won't support that. I would just like to complement what my predecessor, Mr Horvat, has already begun, and I would like to say that Mrs Tavš announced a different question yesterday than she then asked. You probably know that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u324	Comrade Aloys Sok, we're in the clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u325	I told you I wouldn't support it. Of course, I would like to tell her that what she is talking about is section 28 of the Social Protection Act and I would suggest that this article 28 should re-examine, read it, then understand what he is actually asking and what the consequences of this law are. So... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u326	Comrade Sok, you're opening a debate. I can't let you do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u327	It is nice to talk about 61 euros, but Article 28 of the Law is slightly different than it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u328	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. A new round of pleadings. I'm asking for an application, on my own behalf, of course. Member Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Look, some of you are discussing what the Member or Member of Parliament has said. The saddest thing is, if it holds, of course we'll check that this law is in force. This is the saddest part of why we should not hear in the debate that the claim that €61 is sufficient for the child's survival is not correct or, if it is, explain to us how it is possible for the child to survive with €61. You're afraid of what, your respectable colleagues. The debate doesn't hurt. So many discussions sometimes, on behalf of all, I speak, even in my own name, go into the air, the lame. But this one's not lame. This is a debate that will say whether it is €61 or not. If it isn't, prove it isn't, but if it is, prove how someone can survive a 61-euro baby. And when you prove it, at least we'll say, you're right, bravo, great! It's worth talking about, not all kinds of nonsense, I admit, which we sometimes discuss indefinitely for five, six hours. What are you afraid of? What? Let's have a debate, and we'll have it once for seven hours, just like we had a hundred other discussions for seven hours. And we'll figure out how someone can survive with 61 euros. But if that's not true, you'll prove it to us. It's the simplest principle. And if you're right, prove it through this debate. There's power, there's will and there's knowledge.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u330	Thank you. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u331	Thank you very much. I apologize to the gentlemen of New Slovenia if I have made a mistake on the date. But it is so sadder that the date of entry into force will not be February 28th, but since before yesterday these people have been deprived of 120 euros. And when you talk, look at the law. Article 29 is disputed, specifically when we are talking about this maintenance, which is after a new deduction from monetary social assistance, a respected colleague and a colleague. And I only asked you and only because the minister admitted yesterday that she knew or heard that there would also be cases of injury under this new law. And if you are so honest, tell me whether it is fair for these people to reduce their financial social assistance by 120 euros because of the new law or the whim of New Slovenia! Today, representatives of government parties are also expected to receive a letter by e-mail. I hope that you have read it, and if not, that at least your President, Prime Minister Janez Janša, will be able to do so much wisdom and give the order to make a difference in this area, including in favour of the socially weak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u332	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There were 74 Members and Members present and 29 votes in favour, 45 against. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda - the second is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the participation of workers in management. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We have five amendments to the fifth article. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS and NSI to Article 1. We're voting. Excuse me! Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up. A colleague, Stanislav Brenčič, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u333	Thank you very much. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group does not, in substance, approve or support this amendment, because it is a threshold for a private entrepreneur to have at least 50 employees, 50 employees, 50 workers to comply with the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management. This limit, given the practice we are experiencing, is significantly too high that only then must the entrepreneur consult and exchange some starting points, including on the issue of employee management. However, if this amendment is not adopted, then Article 1 shall remain as it is. I must say that we have been somewhat misled on the Committee, but in this case, it is certainly not acceptable for such a Article 1 to require a single entrepreneur who has only one or two employees to establish the necessary obligation under this Act because sanctions are difficult. Therefore, in this problem, we will support the amendment by clearly predicting that we only support it in order to remain open to Article 1 and that we will table an amendment in the third reading so that this threshold is substantially reduced. I think it is necessary to discuss, in so far as we have a genuine intention to establish dialogue within businesses which are within the title of independent entrepreneurs, the partnership relationship would say that this threshold should be set at about 20, up to 30. Therefore, in this situation, we have no choice but to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u334	Thank you. Member Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Although I respect and have listened to Mr Brenčič's debate with pleasure, I do not agree with him, but I do not. Why don't I agree? The debate on how many workers there are at least, as the amendment says, has been sufficient time for this debate. Another time. Once again, we all know that this is not an absolutely binding declaration of the European Union. And the third time. We all know that companies with more than 50 employees in Slovenia are 0.1% if. Fourthly, let me say on behalf of the Slovenian National Party that it is only here that employers do not want any complications and want to silence all workers who have the right to say anything else. That's why it's such a proposal. We will not support him, because I also know that there will be no changes in the third reading despite the amendment tabled. We could've made those changes sooner. You know that if you refer to it, the declaration is binding not 50 and more, but from 20 on. But for 20 we would have landed, we have said this several times, of course there is no listening, so we will not support employers to silence workers in this way through this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u336	Thank you. Member Anton Anderlich has the floor. You're giving up. Member Janez Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u337	Thank you so much for saying that. Certainly, increased co-ordination does not necessarily follow in order to ensure consistently the scope of the rights. Co-ordination means co-decision on key matters relating to the management of associations. For the scope of rights and the consistent exercise of rights, inspection services are primarily responsible, and others that the union is also properly negotiated in accordance with the law. Look, this amendment is absolutely necessary, it's necessary. Because there will be a situation where someone who has set up a family business will hire one person and have co-administration. However, this craftsman or this independent entrepreneur will guarantee employment with all his assets, including the property of family members. But the one who's busy in there won't guarantee anything. So this position is extremely uneven, illogical and it would actually drive away not only foreign tradesmen, foreign investors, but also domestic investors. Even domestically, no man would do such a thing, and they have no such co-ordination anywhere in the world. It is therefore essential to support this amendment and, in fact, to put the situation in that starting position, as also stated by the Economic and Social Council, yes, for co-management, but in proportion. This needs to be ensured. So the New Slovenia Group will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u338	Thank you. And I am opening a procedure for explanations on behalf of Members and Members. I'm asking you to sign up. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u339	Thank you very much. I will not support this amendment. I will not support it from a simple fact, which also stems from the very session of the parent's working body. At the same time, my colleague Drobnic said clearly and loudly, when I understood him, why he did not basically support the idea supported by the secretary at the Ministry, Mr Stroves, in order to include independent entrepreneurs in Article 1 of this Act. Finally, the law that arose, if I am not mistaken, is from the time that Mr Drobnic ministered at this Ministry and it is logical that he must speak to the law in favour. It is surprising, however, that today he sees the importance of trade unions and trade union negotiations in the preparation of such laws. I regret that the unions have not been sufficiently taken into account. This was also pointed out on the parent’s working body. In short, the government coalition advocated a different solution on the parent's working body. Today, come with an amendment that limits the solution that they have not last proposed on their own. I will not support, as I have already said, an amendment that restricts. But let's do it. If we've decided to do it, let's do something about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u340	Thank you. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u341	Thank you for your word, chairman. How important the debate, which you did not allow one point back, has proved to be today, right here in this article. However, from the first report of the Government's representative to the second report, until the former Minister's announcement, there was still something that could be figured out. If, in some part, I may even agree with your statement, mentioned at the outset, I must say that it is nevertheless in order to prevent the co-decision of workers employed by a sole entrepreneur with this amendment. This was to be understood, and you will not be able to conceal this, unless more than 50 workers are employed. We know that in Slovenia there are almost no such independent entrepreneurs, and then we can talk about giants among independent entrepreneurs. And one more thing is interesting. How times change and how quickly people can change over time. Once, when you were in the role of the opposition, you defended the workers; when you came to the government, the employers. Good thing there's nothing in there. I will not support this amendment alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u342	Thank you. Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u343	Thank you very much. I understand the embarrassment of my colleague, Mr Brenčič, who decided, in contrast to the debate in the morning, to support the amendment so that the Government or anyone, the coalition could form an amendment to the amendment and set this number to 20, 10, 5, 25 or any number between 1 and 50. However, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, I understood that something had been arranged first on the working body itself. Today we had a long discussion that it is not clear why this limit should be exactly 50, why at the top of the European framework, I will not support the amendment. However, if there is a serious agreement within the ruling coalition, of course this vote will also show. It will be interesting whether this agreement within the coalition applies also to the amendment to Article 4, where we will in fact decide whether it is a law on the participation of workers in management or whether it is a law on the prevention of the participation of workers in management. I won't support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u344	Thank you. And Member Boyan Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u345	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I will, of course, support this amendment. I do not understand at all the debaters and all those who want to put in place labour co-ordination in all companies. This was not the case even at the time we were still in socialism and we actually had labour co-management, self-government based on social property. There's never been one, and nowhere in the world is that in such small businesses. Let's be real and smart so we don't take stupidity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u346	Thank you. Can we move on to a decision? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 29. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS and NSI to Article 4. I am opening the application procedure on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go. The word is given by the Member of the Cvet Zalokar Orazem. [[He's quitting.]] Member Janez Petty Officer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u347	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, this amendment restores the text of the law or this article to such a dictatorship as was adopted in the Economic and Social Council, in accordance with the agreement and decision of the social partners. We just need to be aware of that. With the change made in the National Assembly, we are in fact establishing a position to have two categories of workers - one who are responsible for their conduct, including in terms of disciplinary procedure; and another category of workers who are not responsible for it. I also stressed on the committee itself that the situation could happen - I will not talk about a burning company, but about, say, violating human rights or harassment. If someone had embarked on this unacceptable harassment in the workplace and followed the disciplinary procedure and it would have referred to the world, then of course, if the world had so decided, because it would have been in connection with its function, which either as a worker or as a worker, voted against and could not even be disciplined - so we should not have brought disciplinary action against such a worker who triggered the harassment. This is, in fact, contrary to the Penal Code, to our legal order, not least the Constitution. A proper diction is such that it is not possible and is not permissible for a worker representing a worker or a confidant to make his position worse because of his operation in the union or in the performance of that function. However, procedures that are not bound by this may be initiated. One such example is harassment in the workplace. And there are a number of other things, disciplinary things that the employer couldn't trigger anymore. Nothing else could have triggered them if a dictatorship such as that adopted on the Committee had been adopted. Therefore, the New Slovenia Group supports this amendment and returns to the dictatorship as adopted in the Economic and Social Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u348	Thank you. Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u349	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. What exactly happened in the Economic and Social Council, we have many different discussions in this National Assembly. The government says something was adopted, and then we get a different document. It is crucial that, as a former minister, the Member of Parliament defended a dictatorship which, of course, says something completely different. That is to say, if the employer simply assesses that a member of the Council of Workers does not comply with the provisions of the employment contract, he may be bullied, may be bullied, and may not have a member of the Council of Workers, a worker’s trustee or a representative of a company in the world of society in the world of workers, in society of no protection. And that's why he's going here. It is a matter of whether we will have the conditions laid down for workers' representatives, workers' representatives, members of the labour council to have their backs covered when they are being bullied by the employer, who will be the member of the workers' council, the worker's trustee, the employee's representative in the company's organs, of course, who will not be satisfied with the workers in one way or another. And that's why he's going here. It is about whether it is established in the company itself, and Mr Comrade Member Drobnič, if someone carries out such or otherwise as you have already said, harassment, there is a direct application of the penal code if someone sets the company on fire, as you said, I believe that, of course, the Council of Workers will also be able to judge when someone who is otherwise a member of the workers' council has harmed everyone in the company. And it is primarily about whether you want to have workers, people who are upright or who are simply going to be able to be bullied by the employer because of their interpretation of the collective agreement and, above all, by contracts of employment. And today we have discussed this a lot, and it has been shown that only members of the Republican Coalition or the SDS and New Slovenia, as we have talked about today, are advocating that these representatives of the Council of Workers should be prevented by law from protecting anyone, in this case of course the consent of the Council of Workers, if the employer goes against them because of the matters they carry out as workers' representatives. And that's why I'm going to reject the amendment you're proposing.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u350	Thank you. Any other wishes? We're opening a new circle. I'm asking you to sign up. We have six registered Members and Members of Parliament. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u351	Thank you very much. I won't support this amendment either. Simply because of the fact that, in fact, we supported the amendment included in the amended law on the home labour body. And now, to bring the matter back to a state we basically disagreed with, please. In addition, today, in Article 1 of the big word on how important trade unions are in negotiations and so on, then in Article 4 of the proposal of trade unions, which has not been taken into account, or on the basis of the parent labour body, has been taken into account, an amendment has been adopted, and now you are putting in the SDS and New Slovenia an amendment with which you are actually denying what the trade unions are proposing, the Union of Free Trade Unions. Who's kidding in this National Assembly, respected colleagues and colleagues? I simply cannot support this amendment even because of the fact that it violates rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u352	Thank you. Member Stanislav Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u353	Thank you very much. With this amendment, we are working in the substantive sense that I am pursuing, with the aim of participating in the management of the workers step back. Our Group of Members will unanimously reject this amendment. But I'm really glad that a man who was a minister is no longer a minister because such indoctrination is used. As an example, he listed on the working body when a worker's representative smokes the company, the Council of Workers will protect it. Today, he cited the case of sexual harassment, sexual abuse of someone in the company, and the world will protect him again. Let's be honest. Who is more exposed or more likely to these mistakes, these abuses, if not the manager, than the poor employee representative who is already so unjust? I'm glad we're not going back to the 19th century if we can turn this amendment down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u354	Thank you. Member Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u355	Thank you. To make it clear to all, as well as to those who will read us, watch us, or hear us. We are talking about the immunity of a member of the Council of Workers, a worker and a representative of workers in the bodies of society. Two of these, a worker's trustee and a worker's representative, two parties with an amendment waive their rights, probably because you don't know that these three are listed because all three are dependent on the number of people who are somewhere. And second. With the amendment, you are withdrawing the substance, namely: to a member of the Council of Workers, to a worker or to a representative of workers in the bodies of the company cannot cancel the contracts of employment without, essentially, the consent of the Council of Workers. You have deleted this consent and now the story is clear, with your amendment's proposal, we abolish immunity. But it is no big deal, if you think so, only such a proposal has already been made by the Government, but the amendment has been adopted on the parent's working body and he has made it clear that the number of people depends on whether it is a member of the world, whether it is a worker's trustee or a worker's representative; and the expression of consent used. And that was accepted. And now, because this consensus and those two who depend on the number of workers, they're no one's sick, we can't stop it. We can't go with the mother's working body - yes, the change again. No way, gentlemen! I'm not saying, every mistake you make, once you admit it, let's accept it like you did on your mother's work. And that's social, that's fair, and that's smart.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u356	Thank you. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u357	Thank you. I will not support this amendment because this amendment, like many other amendments as well as legislative proposals, build on the right of ownership over the right to work. This right to work is often minimised. But when it comes to working representatives, especially. And I can't agree to the interpretations that want to bypass the union's opinion and that I know from public audiences, after all, when representatives of the union or others representing the workers were attacked by the owners to tell the untruths that they were lazy, I don't know what else. At the same time, it is apriorously attributed to them that they are not able to judge criminal proceedings soberly. I would like to ask you whether those who sit in government who have authority are always able to overlook and see the signs of sexual harassment in the workplace if we have to listen to them right now. Some were even rewarded, not only were they not the subject of investigation, whether they were doing such things or not. About arson, about sexual harassment, it's about mobile phones when it comes to working representatives, but it's not about the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u358	Thank you. Member Boyan Starman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u359	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I will support this amendment. This proposal, which was adopted by the Committee, I did not support on the Committee either, which is why I have a very clear conscience here. I think that the protection of a worker's representative, when representing the interests of workers, is necessary in representation and must be. However, we cannot accept the absolute protection of an employee who, irrespective of what he is doing, cannot do so. I think it's logical and everywhere in the world that a worker is protected in the performance of his mission is supposed to represent workers. And that's the only thing right and logical. Anything else is pointless. Participation of workers in management, we have distributed social property and given to all our citizens, everyone has property and thus has the right to manage. There are very few who have kept this, and they still have that right. Probably by advocating these quasi-rights in governance, it would be wiser to advocate workers' rights. How many people would trade this right to get a job for an indefinite period instead of a certain period of time. How many would replace them for certain other categories in order to have a better salary and so on. Let us keep these concepts, not go beyond the context of Europe, or we will make our economy worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u360	Thank you. Member Janez Petty Officer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u361	The dictatorship on which we vote and which is the subject of the amendment reads as follows: "It is not possible for a member of the Council of Workers to reduce wages or to initiate disciplinary or compensation proceedings against him or otherwise to put him in a less favourable position or subordinate position if he acts in accordance with the law, collective agreement and employment contract." This dictatorship was adopted in the Economic and Social Council and the unions agreed. And we return this dictatorship to the law because it is appropriate and proportionate. Why are we only talking about a member of the workers' council? Because, according to the union attorney, his protection is provided in the Labour Relations Act. We have an appropriate European way of doing this. I stand for the things that have been agreed upon. And the unions themselves consider this to be appropriate. In view of the other comments that have been inappropriate, I will not give an answer because I think that those who have given them should explain them to anyone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u362	Thank you. In view of the desire for further discussion, I am opening a re-circuit round to apply for explanations of vote. Please, please. Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u363	What a fellow Member has read is a classic provision that says simplifies, "kadia sues the kadija court". Of course, the employer will determine whether the employer is in breach of the employment contract, but who else? And, of course, the employer will be happy to find out if this member of the workers' council is going to challenge him, the employer, on behalf of the workers. Therefore, the fundamental question here is whether we are forming a just society and whether in this just society we are establishing conditions where there will be an equal co-ordination between those who are representatives of workers who will present their views there and therefore will not be bullied. That's what this is about, Mr. Former Minister. And I'm joining my colleague, Brančič, that you're already a former minister. This is the foundation of a just society and this is the basis that has been agreed upon. However, if we were in the morning discussion, we would see that the status of union trustees is different from that of those who are members of the Council of Workers or, as the law says, a full proposal from the Committee, workers' trustees or representatives of workers in the bodies of society. This cannot be done without the consent of the Council of Workers, which could be interpreted as bullying, because they, by their role in co-management procedures, adequately represent the interests of workers. I will therefore reject this amendment of the SDS, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u364	Thank you. Member Happy Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u365	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I believe Mr Petty Officer wants to smoke a little bit at the Ministry of Labour. And I also believe I'd be happy if it were burning there. Look, if we were to accept this, yes, Mr. Petty Officer claims that the unions agree with that? Which unions agree with what you said. Can you just tell me one union? I'd like to see this union.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u366	My friend Lucky Friend, I owe you a break. It's a stage of explanation for the voice, you can't ask your colleague Drobnič here because he can't get a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u367	I forgot a little bit. I'm sorry. So the level of protection is getting smaller, and to someone who doesn't understand it, he doesn't even have to answer it. I'd ask anyone who doesn't understand this not to sign up for the word. And if we accept that, then that cookie you gave to the union can quickly come into a bitter diaper.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u368	Thank you very much. Member Tomaž Šteba has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u369	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I don't really understand this debate in the National Assembly, why is it so biased and seductive? Why would a member of the workers’ council have privileges? Why? But you assume that the employer will bully such a member of the workers' council. Why? And why would a member of the workers’ council not fulfill the same obligations and have the same rights as all other workers? I heard the word "immunity." What immunity? Union agents have full protection as union representatives of repressive unions. Here, in this case, any party that considers it either to be bullied or to abuse the rights that are now being restricted by this amendment - I will support it - to the rights and duties that apply to all employees in the company. All of you, one side and the other have a chance of judicial protection. And what's at stake here? Yes, some would like to assume that there will be absolute bullying and that such a member of the workers' world does not have any other protection, but that it should be given almost as much immunity as it wants to be. In fact, there is one life, a real game of mutual respect and partnership in the company. However, in cases of conflict, there is judicial protection here, and I will support such an amendment. I think it's the only correction for business.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u370	Thank you. Can we move on to a decision? We vote on the amendment under Article 4. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 36. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS and NSI to Article 7. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 26. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the same two parliamentary groups, namely SDS and NSI, to Article 10. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 29. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And we are moving on to a decision on the last amendment to Article 14 of the same two parliamentary groups, namely SDS and NSI. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 30. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments and thus conclude my second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to more than one-tenth of the articles were adopted in the second reading of the amended draft law, in short, all the amendments proposed were adopted, the assembly will hold the third reading of the draft law at the next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the Council adopt the following decision: a proposal for a third-reading law shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 52 votes in favour and 7 opposes the proposal [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. However, we continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - to consider the proposal for a declaration of acceptance by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe - Parliaments united in the fight against violence against women in the family. We are moving on to a decision on the declaration, and I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service have not informed me that the declaration adopted by the amendment would not have been harmonised because of the parent working body, so we are moving on to a vote on the declaration. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, all present voted in favour of the declaration. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I note that this has resulted in the adoption of the declaration and thus the conclusion of this item on the agenda. However, we continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - dealing with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Fees. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. That is, we have an amendment to Article 6 and we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia to Article 6 above. I am opening the application procedure on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go, please. Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u371	The proposed amendment seeks to ensure that the Minister of Public Administration does not increase the costs of service delivery in diplomatic and consular offices in the same way as the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This amendment prevents the Minister of Public Administration from doing so in administrative units for photocopying costs and other office matters carried out by administrative workers. The entire Administrative Fees Act, which is closed by the rest of the articles, will increase by 70% on average the costs at diplomatic and consular offices and will receive 18 times more from citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and others who benefit from diplomatic and consular services, as will some in the implementation of administrative matters return to Slovenia. It is a matter of providing an additional EUR 3 million in revenue to the state budget and additionally charging for EUR 3 million all those who benefit from services at diplomatic and consular offices. Slovenia wants to be a more efficient and cheaper country, according to some economic reform framework. With this law, Slovenia is becoming a more expensive country. EUR 3 million is these additional burdens and, therefore, with the support of the amendment, you are allowing at least that the Minister of Public Administration will fail as the Minister of Foreign Affairs has succeeded. Yesterday, Mr President, the government said there would be no catastrophic scenario. Indeed, it will not be if, in this way, we raise the revenue of the state budget with this law, the Administrative Fees Act, rather with the Energy Expenses Act, a little later with the VAT Act. With these measures, of course, we are additionally burdening citizens with this law, so I propose that you support the amendment and then reject the law, because otherwise the Members who support this law will be in accordance with the Law on Monitoring Prices on the Blacklist of the Union of Slovenian Consumers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u372	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? No, then we can go to the vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 42. I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and thus a second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As you have noted, the proposed amendment was not adopted in the second reading. Therefore, in the third reading, it is not possible to table amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law would not be harmonised. I am opening the procedure for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u373	Personally, Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy will oppose the adoption of the law because of the higher administrative fees. A few cases: for out-of-European service by 25%, for the issuance of a passport for foreigners, for refugees, for economists - by 85%, for airport transit visas and other transitional visas - 71%, for the drawing up of documents - by 11% and, most banally, for students at diplomatic and consular offices to verify certificates of credit in their study abroad, instead of 11 euros will now have to pay 19 euros or 72.7% more for one party. At the time of taking over the euro, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has concluded that, with a view to ensuring the neutrality of the transition to the euro, a commitment is made that only through the transition to the euro will the Government not propose to increase the monetary amounts set out in the rules and other legal acts proposed by either the National Assembly or to adopt them in accordance with its competence. This Article, this Decision of the Government is directly violated here. It would therefore be right for the law to reject, propose to the Government that, in line with the euro takeover programme, it gradually raises these administrative fees, especially at diplomatic and consular offices, and thus provides for a smooth transition and lower costs of the country. Otherwise, as I said, the National Assembly, the Members who will support this law, will take the first place in the blacklist of the Union of Consumers of Slovenia on the rise in the prices of services we accept in Slovenia. So far we have persecuted the owners of bars, cafes and so on, and now, if you adopt this law, we will be Members who will confirm this because your will confirms this, in the highest place. The average rise in these services is 70%. In this way it is very easy to save in the state budget. We're going to go against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u374	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? We're voting on the law. There are 74 Members and Members present, 46 votes in favour of the bill, 22 votes in favour. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Economic Zones Act. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service have not informed me that the law would not be harmonised because of the domestic labour body of the adopted amendments. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 71 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - consideration of the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005. I am opening the procedure for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Member Cyril Testen has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u375	Thank you for your word. I would like to say what I have already indicated earlier that we will support the 2005 final budget proposal in our Group. However, we will support it because the 2005 budget has achieved all those goals set by the Government and the coalition with a balance, particularly those relating to economic development, the balance of public spending, the achievement of convergence criteria! And also because we have made a significant improvement in the situation of the municipalities through a rebalancing process, because we have achieved much more investment in state roads, and because we have achieved with a rebalance that much more investment has been made in the economy and thus have had an impact on economic growth and also on higher employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u376	Thank you, too. And I'm opening an application procedure to explain my voice. Here you go. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u377	I will not support the Final Account of the 2005 Budget. I will not support it for formal reasons because the Accounting Act has been violated, because expenditure is not properly shown and the National Assembly will publish in the Official Journal a false volume of the budget deficit. This budget deficit is not only for 90 billion, but it is for 140 billion. We report so much to the European Union, not only because of the ESE 95, but because the legislation is fully implemented. That's what the Court of Auditors was talking about. As a result, the Court of Auditors submitted in the documents we have in the National Assembly, including an appropriate correction of the accounts and it is necessary to know that in 2004 we had 80 billion deficits; in 2005 we have 140 billion deficits. These are facts that cannot go past these facts, and since you are here as a member of the ruling coalition, I will not support such a document alone. It would be correct for the Government, as it had already done in the past, to send to the National Assembly a correction of the accounts and such a correction in accordance with the Accounting Act would be properly published in the Official Journal. This is as if, after receiving the audit opinion, the company has published the data before the audit opinion is issued; and, of course, we will publish an unaudited final account if you support its adoption. If you refuse admission, the Government shall have the possibility to correct the final accounts in accordance with the audit of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u378	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 18. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 18.]] I therefore note that the Final Account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 24th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
