ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the 29th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I inform you that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Anton Anderlich, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mrs Polonca Dobrajc, Mr Dusan Kumer and Mr Bojan Starman. We're moving to 21. PERIOD OF THE DAY - IT'S A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE PAYMENT SYSTEM SYSTEM IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR, BY EXISTENCE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you are, Minister Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members! For a short period of time, in what context this amendment to the Public Sector Wage System Act is adopted. The public sector wage reform began in 2002 with the adoption of the Public Sector Wage System Act, which was supported by all parliamentary parties at that time. The basic principle of law was a uniform and transparent system of public sector wages and the elimination of so-called wage imbalances. The current government has taken over this project from the previous government, of course, with the difference that it remained at the level of legal principles in the previous mandate. In this mandate, however, we must put this reform into real life, which is, of course, very difficult because it is one of the most sensitive areas for everyone, it is for wages. For wages of about 150,000 officials and public servants. The government has decided to set up a public sector summit first, i.e. the salaries of officials and directors. The aim was to both enter into force in March 2006 and actually also entered into force for directors in the public sector, for directors in public administration, public institutions, public agencies, public funds. It should also apply to officials, but there was a constitutional dispute in which judges challenged the regulation in the segment relating to judges. The Constitutional Court has frozen and retained the entire reform. Not just in the contentious part. The dispute was part for judges and state prosecutors. The Constitutional Court has decided to keep everything. Why? It's something that everyone can decide on in their own way. On the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court, we have prepared this amendment to the law, which allows for the transition to a new pay system for all public sector officials from 1.1.2008. With regard to all other officials, other than those of the judiciary, this law brings into force relations as established by the decision on official salaries, except in one case where there is no increase in wages, but a slightly smaller reduction than originally envisaged. We've been coordinating with the judges for about three months. The alignments were correct, worthy. I can tell. And we agreed on a number of issues, not all of them. All provisions on performance and increased workload are harmonised. This is very important. In this way, we introduce rewards after work results after work performance into the judiciary system. What remains uncoordinated is the height of the basic wages or the starting wage classes. This part is very important because it is also an anchor and a starting point for wage setting in the public sector collective agreement. We are in the final part of the negotiations for this collective agreement. This week we are intensifying them from Wednesday to Friday nonstop negotiations. Somehow it's a deal between the government and the unions to close this one. So let's go to the end, not to stop anymore, but to negotiate from day to day until, if possible, in June, after many years of negotiations. What happens to court fees in this new law? If I can explain in my grave. The mass for the fixed part of the judicial salaries, that is, for the basic salary and supplement for the working period, remains at about the same level, by making changes in the structure of fixed wages by obtaining junior judges, judges at the beginning of their careers, and by obtaining judges from first-degree courts, district and district courts. Where there's also the biggest problem with judicial backlogs. And of course, this is very important for stimulating or motivating young university-graduate lawyers to decide on a judicial function. In the rest of the work, it is extremely important that the law introduces part of the salary for work performance. The mass for this part is 2% at the annual level. In addition, all the savings paid by the courts, for example, due to maternity leave and the like. Each year, the National Assembly will set the level of resources to increase the amount of work to remedy the judicial backlog. The National Assembly will therefore be able to determine each year in the State budget - I conclude - the extent of the resources to be allocated to better payment of those judges who will be more intensively involved in the resolution of judicial arrears. So much for the intro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the committee president, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u4	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings to fellow Members and fellow Members and to all those who are in the process of amending these laws, which we are about to adopt today in the package. At its 38th urgent meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the public sector wage system. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. The representative of the proposed minister, Mr Virant, provided an additional explanation for the bill and said that wage reform in the public sector had started in 2002 when, in agreement with the majority of public sector unions, it was agreed that, on the basis of the new Wages Act, the pay system would be regulated by a single system and that some wage imbalances would be eliminated. It was decided by the Constitutional Court that the legislator must protect the salaries of the judges obtained in the light of the prohibition of their reduction, that the incentive part of the salary should not be based solely on quantity and that the salaries of the judges must be governed by law and not by a decision. Even though we've adopted both acts in the National Assembly. Thus, even though both acts are adopted by the National Assembly, the Constitutional Court has ruled that this is a formal distinction that justifies such a decision. The bill mainly provides for the continuation of the renovation of functional salaries and allows the transition to a new salary system for all officials. However, the changes brought by this measure relate only to judges, state prosecutors and state lawyers. In the course of the debate, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service reiterated the comments made in the written opinion and reiterated some questions regarding the provisions of the draft law relating mainly to the salaries of judges, prosecutors and lawyers and certain editorial errors. However, these comments have already been taken into account. The latter has already been taken into account by amendments which have also been adopted by the Committee. A representative of the Council of Justice also took part in the meeting of the Committee. The President of the Council of Justice said that the Council of Justice had made every effort to fully regulate the salary system of judges in the Law on Judicial Service, in particular in view of the fact that the judges were officials with a permanent mandate. In the opinion of the Council, judges should be classified as payment systems from 45th as district judge of the novice to 60th as supreme judge. The President of the Council of Justice also said that, during the coordination process, they were prepared for a compromise solution on the basis of which the district judge would be classified as a novice in the 42nd grade. The representative of the State Attorney General's Office, Mrs Barbara Brezigar, stressed that prosecutors have always advocated a uniform system of payment in the public sector. However, according to the classifications of prosecutors, it is estimated that the prosecutor’s salary must be assessed in the light of the social and personal exposure of the prosecutor’s functions, as there is no criminal court without the prosecutor’s opinion. However, the state’s prosecutors and judges must be completely equal in their position. A representative of the State Attorney's Office also took part in the meeting. This stressed the importance of distinguishing between wage classes for public defenders and those in the external departments. The representative of the Slovenian Judicial Society attached the opinion to the opinion already expressed in terms of the comments of the President of the Council of Justice, and in particular stressed the duty to regulate judicial salaries in a manner comparable to those of the legislature. Representatives of various unions, namely the Union of State and Social Authorities and the head of the negotiating group, also participated in the meeting. Mr Škernjavič pointed out, as the essence of the bill, a provision that states that two sources are provided for the elimination of imbalances, namely a source from wage indexation and a source that is part of the [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions, a representative of Slovenian diplomats' unions, representatives of the Federation of Slovenian Trade Unions Pergan, who expressed support for the bill. [[...]] The representative of the proposer answered the concerns and questions raised. Finally, the Committee adopted some of its amendments and all the articles of the law together.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I ask Ms Mojco Kucler Dolinar to continue and express the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u6	Thank you. Indeed, the story of the public sector wage system began in 2002, i.e. in the mandate of the previous Government. Except for the two novelties, the law did not change significantly until 2006. Novela E, and last year she brought in a new system of salaries for officials. In particular, with a view to regulating and limiting the highest wages. It also indirectly affected the salaries of other civil servants. Members of Nova Slovenije have also pointed out in the previous mandate the non-compliance of the previous system. Of course, the public also attached to these warnings. The public also supported the changes, as it saw some absurd situations in which directors’ salaries, such as public institutions and public funds, were strongly above the salaries of top government officials, such as the Prime Minister of the Government. When we adopted the novel and the decree in Novi Slovenije, we supported the elimination of wage imbalances and discrimination. However, it is also true that at that time the National Assembly may not have taken sufficient account of the Court's warnings and that some Members have been warned and warned, particularly regarding the rather unbalanced relationship between the paying officials of the individual branches of government. And this has also helped to reexamine this law today. The salaries of judges, prosecutors and lawyers are not linked to collective bargaining and can only be determined by law. The principle of independence of the judiciary is therefore only in line with the regulation of the pay situation by law. Therefore, the Constitutional Court has also ruled that the decision on the salaries of officials as a sub-legislative provision is inconsistent with this principle and is also inconsistent with the Constitution. In our New Slovenia Group, we support the objectives of the amendment proposal and the completion of the wage system in the public sector, which is therefore mainly in terms of responding to the individual findings of the Constitutional Court. In addition to these changes, we also support the changes resulting from amended higher education legislation for the introduction of Bologna education, as well as provisions on the translation of the salaries of employees in the public service of RTV. We also think that it is possible to have provisions allowing for a subsequent approach to collective agreements regulating wages in the public sector. The Constitutional Court, in its decision, stated that the legal determination so far regarding the regulation of payment for additional work performance was somewhat too open, too unclear. We therefore also support a more precise definition of regular work performance when determining the level of resources of 2% for basic wages. Despite extensive and long-term coordination, including the Minister of Public Administration, there are still some open issues. This was also clear from the current procedure, particularly in the work that touches on the classification of judges in wage classes. However, in the discussion at the home work body, opinions among representatives and representatives of individual trade unions were also divided as to pay reform. Above all, those who have already been provided with some better starting points in the past are not in a better position to adopt the law, as are others, who expect to have individual positive effects on wage reform by also adopting this law, since it is ultimately about regulating wages throughout the public sector. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposed changes to the law are appropriate and we will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik will give the position of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u8	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, including those who are in front of televisions, a very nice greeting! The Public Sector Wage System Act was adopted in 2002 and was last completed in 2006. However, it has not yet fully established itself in practice, as not all necessary sub-laws have yet been adopted. Negotiations on the public sector collective agreement have also not been concluded. As is known, in order to ensure payment of salaries to officials under the new system, the National Assembly adopted a decree on salaries of officials and amending three other laws governing judicial service, the State Prosecutor's Office and the Office of the Defence. Some of the provisions of these provisions were later defined by the Constitutional Court as incompatible with the Constitution and the National Assembly by laying down a time limit for the elimination of these non-compliances. Today's proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law on the public sector's wage system is intended in particular to remedy these non-compliances in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. The non-compliance with the legal provisions governing the salaries of judges, state prosecutors and lawyers with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is therefore eliminated. In addition, the law deals with a number of other less important issues. Among them is compliance with the new legislation on higher education. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the regulation of the salaries of judges, prosecutors and lawyers in the law in question is reasonable and appropriate. We do not see any specific substantive reasons for regulating these issues in the field laws. For example, in the Law on Judicial Service as proposed by the Council of Justice. For we believe that a uniform system of salaries also makes sense for employees in the judiciary in the Public Sector Wage System Act. This ensures greater transparency, comparability and transparency of the whole wage system in the public sector. In our opinion, the proposed solutions to the law are beneficial for judges, prosecutors and lawyers, since they are provided with protection by five per cent of the nominal salary reduction they would receive under the old rules. The single law also regulates allowances for judicial officials, which are set at the same level as other civil servants. This kind of regulation seems appropriate to us. Despite the coordination of several open issues with the representatives of the judiciary, there was no agreement on some substantive arrangements. It is a supplement for working time and the classification of judges in payment classes. In doing so, we would like to point out that when regulating salaries, the judicial authorities in fact also lay down certain conditions or rules and negotiating grounds for regulating salaries for all other categories of civil servants. From this point of view, we join the Government's view that, on some issues, it was not possible to fully meet the demands of the representatives of the judicial authorities. In fact, we also need to take into account the fact that the salaries of officials of the three branches of government in each country are very different. Comparative comparative tables presented as material for the novelty of the law show that the salaries of officials are largely dependent not only on gross domestic product but also on historical and similar external circumstances. It takes all these criteria into account, in our opinion, the determination of the salaries of officials in the judiciary and the remaining two branches of government. We will therefore support the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. We expect that the law will also be passed by representatives of the judiciary and that it will soon come to life. The fact is, they have chosen a slightly more favourable position in relation to the previous arrangement. We therefore believe that those issues, which have not been fully taken into account in accordance with the wishes of the employees of the judiciary, will not give rise to further difficulties in addressing these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Mr Villa Trofenik will give an opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Wage System, an urgent procedure, is intended primarily to give effect to decisions of the Constitutional Court concerning the issue of salaries of judges, state prosecutors and state defenders. In addition to aligning the law with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the proposed amendments to the Bologna study, the translation of the salaries of employees in the public service of RTV, the subsequent approach to collective agreements and the harmonisation of the basics of salaries in the months of July and January, have also been submitted, including the classification of officials in the wage classes regulated so far by the Regulation on the salaries of officials. Since the changes and additions to the law in the work relating to the issue which has been the subject of the Constitutional Court's judgment are only minimally different from the solutions so far, and since all three affected groups, judges, state prosecutors and state lawyers, have expressed dissatisfaction with the solutions proposed, there is a high likelihood of further disputes and constitutional complaints, and in particular the risk of dissatisfaction of those groups, which could have a negative impact on their functioning. In our view, the drafter rejected the comments or arguments of the affected groups too unilaterally. This is mainly due to the argument of the scope of public financial expenditure and the risk of triggering the plasma claims of other groups following changes or the risk of snowball effect, such as the threat that undoubtedly exists, was named by the representative of the proposer of amendments to the Act. This raises the question once again whether transparency and comparability of public sector wages can only be achieved through one law or more but mutually harmonised laws, and whether the proposed solutions in the law do, to the maximum extent possible, follow the principle of approximately equal pay for approximately equal work. It is because of all the above, despite the awareness of the difficulty of the problem of adequate public sector wage regulation of the proposed law in our parliamentary group that we cannot support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u12	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister, representatives of the Government! The fact is that the Public Sector Wage Scheme Act, adopted in 2002, was completed in 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006. So we change it at least once a year. The fact is that the proposed amendment to the law eliminates the non-compliance of the legal provisions governing the salaries of judges, state prosecutors and state lawyers with the Constitution. This amendment is, of course, also linked to the amended legislation on higher education, the Bologna process and so on. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I wish to express the following. Firstly, the amendments to this Act are linked to the proposals of the Law on Judicial Service, State Defence and the State Prosecutor's Office. Everyone has to change because of unconstitutionality. This sentence is very important. They have to change because of unconstitutionality." Such and similar unconstitutionalities are unfortunately regular events at a time when we have been together for three years, that is, at the time of this government. Dear Mr. Minister Virant, in this case, has had bad luck because he went after the judges. But the judges know they can pull themselves together and know what they have to do for themselves. I'm stressing "Agains!".. Unfortunately, however, I express my conviction and the facts on behalf of the Slovenian National Party that many of the unconstitutionalities are being ignored, because they are only minor, I stress small people who do not know or are unable to demonstrate their legal interest in the assessment of constitutionality and their rights are being violated from day to day, which is, of course, evident. Unfortunately, it's in this branch of power. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I note that it is very interesting how quickly it is, how quickly the Constitutional Court reacted and resolved the case because it was a matter of interest to them. Once again, Minister Virant has received a lesson in how the story ends if you go to the Holy Grail, which is the Slovenian judiciary in this case. At the same time, we note that all attention in changing wage policy is directed only to judges, prosecutors and lawyers. Nothing, nothing, nothing on the other 150,000 public workers, which - you do not read in the envelopes of change - wage policies are probably the most affected. The conclusion in the Slovenian National Party is that nothing has changed in 7 years. But the most interesting thing is that we're in a position. Why? It's a set of laws that we can't oppose, we can't. Because they're unconstitutional and still uncoordinated. On the other hand, we cannot support them again because they are once again guided by one policy that individual gentlemen in the judiciary have formulated for themselves. Not to talk about this pay policy about what we've all forgotten: Hercules, Lukenda and so on. The money's gone. Nobody's seen the results today. Last but not least, since I am running out of time, let me draw attention to one more fact: this is the fact that the Council of Justice warns that it can happen that judges will go back to constitutional judgment. Why? That's what you are, of course, and we'll figure it out for ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Rezman Villa has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Have a nice hello to everyone! And in the introduction, let me remind you that in the DeSUS Group we are not prepared to support all the proposals for laws coming into the parliamentary procedure, and sometimes not any government. The Public Sector Wage System Act is one of those in this category. So in the category of proposals that cannot receive our weekly support. It has already been mentioned that the frequency of amending this law is extremely high, which is in fact understandable as it is a complex problem. The point is that so far it has also been poorly and inadequately arranged. And it is, of course, mainly that here it is strongly and deeply interfering with very different interests. With regard to the proposaler's objective of regulating a single transparent payment system, one that would also affect the greater efficiency of the work of the courts, the reduction of backlogs, the possibility of awarding better, different from those that are weak, we have no prejudice. So, as far as the targets are concerned, yes. As far as performance is concerned, no. We are of the opinion that implementation is not what it could be and that there has actually been a conflict because of perhaps excessive intransigence in the negotiations. More support for this proposal could probably be achieved. Of course, if there were more hearing at different ends. Now we don't want to be confusing with the obvious not just one side, not just the other. However, it is certain that the attempt was made to change across the board. That the response was also comprehensive. That the opposition was widespread from the outset also within the coalition partners and that all of this had to be eventually brought to a standstill by the Constitutional Court. We are now responding to what the Constitutional Court has said, and we are adding in some laws that, as has already been said, are packaged, including minor or minor news. However, we consider that this fundamental problem is that the salary system for officials has been regulated by a decree, which is not in accordance with the Constitution, and that it is now changing by law, in fact, merely a beauty correction. All the essential substantive dimensions of the decree are transferred to the law. Those minor derogations or minor corrections, according to our judgment, are not the appropriate response to the Constitutional Court's decision. That's what he's talking about. That's what we understand. Law enforcement. That's what the Council of Justice is talking about. This is also discussed by some who oppose. We are convinced, for example, that this argument is also unjustifiable that there have been differences in the various branches of government mainly because of the fact that one branch of government also manages resources and has a presidency, the other not or a little less. Let us remind ourselves, by the way, that some branches of government have to go through some kind of professional judgement, through professional downhills, even through political ones, because in the end, appointments happen here in Parliament. Some other branches of authority do not even need all of this. So this argument may have been too weak, it broke so that it could hold. In the DeSUS Group, we also have political and substantive concerns that are not related to constitutionality. We've expressed them before. We're expressing them now. It's about changing the last-work supplement from 0.5 to 0.3%. We believe that it is right to advocate the preservation of the rights of older workers as well, and we are not talking about the need to make corrections in the younger or, as has already been said today, in lower courts. We therefore do not support this law because, in our judgment, it rejects and "brisks", it detracts from the Constitutional Court's decision because it rejects the proposed wage class classification by those who are most interested in it and rejects our concerns about the award of the past work. I'm sorry, so our support for this law will not be.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The content of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Wage System, which we are considering, is the conclusion of a few years' work and efforts to regulate the wage system in the public sector. Serious efforts have been made to regulate this system of public sector wages in 2002. This effort was also supported by the then opposition. So is SDS. We could say that if the then largest government party showed a little more attention, the content could already be settled. Moreover, the SDS as well as the opposition at the time was very critical until several times the date of entry into force of the public sector's wage reform. To achieve this goal, it is the National Assembly. In order to implement the new salary system for officials, the Decree on the salaries of officials, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutions, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Defence has been adopted. All of this happened last year. However, in order for the system to not live as it was supposed to, there was a requirement to assess the constitutionality of Judge Aleš Zalar and some others. At its meeting on 7 December 2006, the Constitutional Court laid down that the individual contested decisions governing the salaries of officials were inconsistent with the Constitution and imposed on the National Assembly to abolish non-compliance with the Constitution within one year of the publication of the decision. In particular, it is a matter of concern whether the Constitutional Court has expressed concern about maintaining the level of judges' salaries obtained. And the proposed amendment to the law eliminates the non-compliance of the legal provisions governing the salaries of judges, state prosecutors and state lawyers with the Constitution. The law includes those amendments and additions which are directly or indirectly linked to the implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court of December 2006. In addition, changes related to the amendment of the law on higher education in relation to the Bologna process. Provisions on the review of salaries of employees in the public institution of RTV Slovenia, the subsequent accession to the collective agreement governing public sector wages, the harmonisation of the starting and basic salaries in January and July 2007. The aim of the Public Sector Wages Act is to introduce a single pay system for all employees in the public sector. With regard to the classification of functions in wage classes, it is proposed that the function in most cases be classified in the same classes as that of the Regulation on the salaries of officials. Exceptions are the functions of the judicial authorities where certain corrections have been made, i.e. withdrawals. And also the classification of the Secretary-General of the Government for other officials, classifications as proposed by law. The National Assembly has already designated it appropriate when considering the Regulation on the salaries of officials and the solution has not been disputed. For reasons of uniformity, transparency and comparability, the purpose of the law is to regulate all elements of the pay system in the same manner and in the same rules for the salaries of all officials, and therefore the proposed law proposes that the salaries of other officials be fully regulated by the proposed law. It is proposed that this law lays down for all officials the amount of basic salary by classifying individual functions in the salary class, the payment for regular work performance and the increased volume of work, the additions, the examination of basic salaries and the protection of nominal salary at the time of introduction into the new system. As an element of wages, labour performance is also introduced for judges, state prosecutors, state defenders as an incentive element of remuneration, which also applies in other areas of this sector. In this regard, the SDS notes that the proposed solution to the public sector wage system is very similar to solutions in other, comparable countries for us and in which public sector wages have been so regulated for more than 10 years. Similar fully managed systems in other countries have shown good results and are also adequately effective. But it also turned out that comprehensive solutions are the only possible. The proposed legal solutions in the law in question fully respond to the Constitutional Court's decision and we therefore support them in the SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potč has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u18	Thank you very much. It is very difficult to talk in 5 minutes about a very complex issue. For we all know that it is not only the Public Sector Wages Act but also the related three other laws: the Judicial Service, the State Prosecutor's Office and the State Attorney's Office, which jointly regulate the issue on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision. We are aware that the pay system in the public sector is right and necessary to deal with, we are aware of the difficulties of this issue, but this should not deter us from the fact that we are also attentive and critical to the proposed solutions, as we can expect that reckless decisions will result in the re-commencement of the constitutional dispute, the re-retention of the implementation of the law and an unknown solution in the future. It is therefore in the law, first of all, to say that the Legislative and Legal Service notes that, even after the decision of the Constitutional Court and the reasons for repealing the law, the applicant has not substantially changed his position and the content of the solutions in the law. If that is true, then we must certainly imagine such a finding, since compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision can only be formal. These are, as the applicant has regulated all the essential topics in the law, not in the ruling, which was one of the findings of the Constitutional Court, that a sub-law adopted by a different procedure and which is not possible to veto should not be the basis for deciding on such important issues as the salaries of judges, prosecutors and lawyers. Especially as far as judges are concerned, because this may also affect their position and their independence. Another time. It is correct to conclude that the proposaler mainly refers to material frameworks when dealing with the problems of this law, saying that these material frameworks are certainly limited. However, in view of the extremely favourable economic developments that we have and which this Government refers to, it is unlikely that they should be so restrictive as to result in a relaunch of the constitutional dispute rather than a solution to this fundamental issue. While stressing that the issue is not solely related to that judicial complex in the broader sense that this law with three others is now dealing with, but that, as a result, the salaries of all civil servants will also have to be settled and that, in relation to them, the Government fully recognises that one of those issues, which can be constitutionally disputed, is highly linked to their situation. This is the fact that we will or will not and when we will start introducing a lower percentage of the work-life allowance, and it points out that this would not be a problem if it were only for the judges, not to mention that it would not be a problem if it were just the other officials. But when it comes to public servants, about whom we are now primarily talking about regulating the pay system and where half of them are close to the solution, half of them are against the proposed arrangements that have been made so far. This means such an amount of resources that a simple state cannot cover them. I think it is important to note this fact and to say that a solution that will impose a lower allowance at work for all the years that someone has already done back can also mean a constitutionally controversial solution, whether it will be constitutionally disputed only for judges, for other officials or not. We therefore believe that there are many, many issues in the law that need to be discussed. That is why we do not support him in our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u20	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, esteemed president, Mr. Minister! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will not support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages. Nor will we support the other three laws that are bound by this roof law. The reasons for this were already repeated through the mouth of various colleagues today, but I would point out some things that were so easy to say here. In fact, if you look at the report on the bill you will see that out of the twelve who have debated, who have in some way been representatives of different groups, only one law has supported and even the entire record does not say why. But all it says is that the union confederate agreed. However, representatives of health and care trade unions, cultural, artistic operators, the union of state, social authorities, the confederation of public sector unions, Slovenian diplomats, state defence, state prosecutors, Slovenian judicial society, the prosecution's society and the President of the Judicial Council themselves did not support this law. So this was the ratio of 1:12 if we look at the representatives. At the same time, there is a very high probability that this marriage will also occur after it is with Caterpiler No. 11 defeated all and will be admitted to the Constitutional Court. What will this accomplish? It is clear that when such matters are regulated - and this is not the first time - it was already in the previous system, but also at a time of great inflation - some new money must be found if such matters are to be regulated. Not by taking something and then by another way. Such solutions have thus far proved to be counterproductive. Of course, and also this solution, which Mr Virant brings, is certainly not the only solution. But at this point, it's unique. That's right. Because, despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has already ruled on such a way, it is now trying to bring another way. Of course, in proving why this is good, what happens in this country in particular during this government, we see that one part of the people, one condition stigmatizes that everything is obvious to them, once to the Roma, once to the judges, once to the teachers, the soldiers, the cops and so on. There's always a minority that gets squeezed if you can't handle the root and the stick. Well, now the carrot's obviously gone, and all that's left is a stick. And in other ways too, they try to subdue, say, the judiciary. Money is, of course, one of the possibilities. These are the reasons why, of course, we will not support this roofing law, nor will others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, forgive me, Mr Squeakl, procedural question. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Of course, given what you just started, I would like to say that the SD Group has tabled an amendment. I think it's in the system. Excuse me. The point is that the report came to point 21 yesterday afternoon, and it was actually not in the system itself yesterday morning. The SD Group is proposing an amendment to Article 2, where it wishes to remedy the confusion related to how and when decisions or decisions to eliminate inconsistencies will be taken. This is because the text of Article 2 has been amended so far as to add the text at the end of the sentence that it is a decision to eliminate non-compliance. However, this decision is unclear. This is a decision to eliminate inconsistencies with this Act or the Regulation on the salaries of officials. Therefore, Mr President, if, of course, the professional services do not yet have an amendment, I propose a 10-minute recess to allow Members of the amendment to receive and thus to discuss this very important law. This law will affect 150,000 civil servants. This law will affect, as a consequence, the debate that takes place in collective and sectoral collective agreements, the 700,000 remaining employees or all 700,000 employees, the 150 000 in the public sector and the 550 000 in the private sector, if you will. Therefore, of course, it is right to hold an appropriate debate on this. The amendments with which we wanted to resolve the fundamental dilemmas were unfortunately rejected on the working body itself. However, in accordance with the procedure, it is appropriate, of course, to formulate the amendment that I have just announced. That's why I'm asking the chairman for a 10-minute recess. The law came to the National Assembly following an emergency procedure. The meeting of the parent’s working body was on 14.6. However, if I am not mistaken, of course, the President's report signed somewhere in the course of yesterday, given that it was only yesterday that it was very late on our benches and it was an important law and, of course, it was not until this morning that we could prepare an appropriate amendment as required by the procedure. We're just before the debate. I believe that it is quite right to allow us to carry out the procedure as envisaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u23	Thank you very much. As you know, I'm also informing you as chairman that I haven't received any amendments to the bench until you've heard from me. That's why I'm breaking up. I hope we get this amendment in the next 10 minutes. I accept your proposal. I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes. We'll continue the session at 10.10. At the same time, if this is not technically possible, I suggest that we break this item of the agenda, continue with the next item, and in short continue our work so that we do not sit in this Chamber for free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u24	Dear Members and Members! We continue with the adjourned session or with the end of the 21st item of the agenda. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled by the Social Democrats Group to Article 2. I am putting to the debate this amendment by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Does anyone want to discuss it on behalf of the Group of Members? Check-in is on. Mr Milan Cwickl has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I, the President, do not know why you gave the opportunity only on behalf of the Group of Members. I don't think it's about explaining the voice yet. It's an amendment debate. I think that all Members can apply, but I have applied, so allow me to say something about the amendment first, of course. I hope we get him. What we want to make clear with this amendment in some way, and we are also interested in the position of the Government, is the so-called unlawful conduct. For this is that the government with the text 3a. the article of the amendment, of which the Legislative and Legal Service states in one way or another that, for legal reasons, it states that it does not fall within this Article, in some way by a new text of the amended proposal, of course, it also refers to a decision to remedy non-compliance. However, it is not clear what these non-conformities refer to. That is why we have been taught that there is a lack of compliance with this law, the decision on the salaries of officials, we wanted to eliminate this so-called disharmony that the Government is supposed to eliminate, in other words, by the decisions of the leaders in these public institutions, the state administration and so on. In this regard, however, it is necessary to ask how many of these potential inconsistencies are indeed. I quote the Minister, who said at the meeting of his mother's working body that, of course, one of these non-compliances would also be linked to this so-called or large non-compliance with the country's restrictions, so he says: "it would also be in the absence of this law," a half-percent of the financial supplement would still apply. And the Minister states that this would amount to €120 million in financial implications at the annual level. I don't know what numbers the minister's operating on. But according to the data presented by the Government to the National Assembly, it is estimated that EUR 800, 900 million would be spent on public sector salaries at the annual level. 120 million is 12%. I therefore ask in this connection, Mr Minister, how much non-compliance is going on and whether it is true that the effects of the adoption of this law at the annual level will mean that we will save €120 million. The minister then says: "This is still the subject of negotiations. But we do have a situation where the National Assembly adopts a law following an urgent procedure, which, if adopted today, will be the main argument of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in tomorrow, Thursday and Friday's negotiations. Public servants, you too must agree to reduce this supplement for past work from 0.5 to 0.3." So, I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia about their position on the amendment proposal and ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia where it is estimated that 120 million euros will be needed if this legislation is not adopted. By the way, that's a third of what we use for armor. The effect of this non-adoption of the law is that the continued application of 0.5% for public servants, for officials and so on, would simply mean that public servants would in some way maintain the real level of income. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as we have heard in the introductory debates today, as well as yesterday, I have heard so much from the President of the Government, who says that the economic situation is fantastic that we have very good incomes above expectations. I simply do not understand why such a scrupulous campaign for an emergency procedure is in order to save 120 million euros, according to the government. So the law we are adopting today will undoubtedly have major material consequences for 150 thousand public servants. They're not important officials here. Public officials are important. As a result, it will have an impact on 550 thousand employees, because I believe that employers will also receive confirmation of the political will of the ruling coalition, which the Government, as a employer, has succeeded in imposing on the public sector unions. I believe that employers will also be able to impose this argument against employees. So we have a very strange situation - in Slovenia there are good economic conditions, good income, but in every way the government saves, let it cost as much as it wants. What will be the result? Negative selection will increase. After we have politically subordinated public servants, we are also punishing them materially, or we are reducing their potential for material conditions. And of course, this is not a good trip, given that we know that these public servants are getting less and less, that they are working under increasing pressure, so material rewards should remain at least at the level that they are now. That means, from 0.5% of the last part. We know that the articles that would allow the amendment to be made are closed. Such was the will of the ruling coalition already on the parent’s working body. However, I will also say further that I will reject the law, I will not support it, because I see no reason to solve the problem you created by trying to punish judges needlessly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I must say, Mr Squeakle, that you have obviously read these things very superficially and quickly, and if you were in charge of wage reform, I hope you would take a little more time and be a little more precise. However, I will try to explain this problem again for the public sector. In fact, the public sector employment allowance is now 0.5% per annum for all officials and public servants. However, one thing needs to be made very clear. In the case of public servants, not in the case of officials, but in the case of public servants, this allowance is applied on the basis of the basic salary and only on the basis of the basic salary. Since over the years the salary has been built through a number of supplements in industry collective contracts, the actual allowance for the working period is approximately 0.3, a little over 0.3% per annum on the full salary of the public servant. The functionaries are privileged here because with us this supplement is 0.52% on everything, on the full salary - on the basic salary and all the supplements with which the wages were built or upgraded. And now that we are going to pay reform, when we want to ensure pay transparency, it is said that we no longer build on allowances, but that the function or job should evaluate the basic salary, the supplements in the mass of resources are actually marginal with the exception of one supplement. This is a work-life allowance. When we come to this, of course it is necessary to recalculate the supplement for the working time. One option would be to keep it at a percentage of 0.5 per year of work, but then this percentage would actually be higher in public servants or this supplement would be higher than today. Much higher. How did I come to the financial impact of €120 million? It's a very simple thing. Between 0.3, 0.5 is the difference of 0.2. If you multiply it by 20 years, like the average working time, it's 4%. 4% of the wage is 120 million euros. Because the wage in the public sector is not, as you said, just over 700 million euros, but say and write 3 billion euros at the annual level to a lady in the public sector. And that's where you'd get this "discretion." By no means does this mean any reduction in salaries for public servants. Look, whoever's gone a little deeper into this payroll reform knows exactly that. No one's nominal salary should be reduced. In collective negotiations, however, we are already so far away that we know today that some wage groups in the public sector will be severely paid to improve their salaries in health care, i.e. nurses, health professionals, so that wages will be strongly repaired in culture, in order to improve salaries also in public administration. Let's say referees, say beginners in the 7th tariff group, so university-graduate lawyers, economists and so on, where we really have a problem with employment. All of this is going to get better. The negotiations in the collective agreement are on their way to an end. And this has also been taken into account by the Government that favourable economic growth must also be felt by the public sector. This is why last year came for the first time in history, I would say, there was an agreement between the government and the unions, after which, in addition to the escalation, annual wage coordination in line with inflation, another part of the harmonisation of real productivity growth is added. And these funds will be aimed at eliminating wage imbalances. That's the money the union and I have already agreed on. Public sector employees will take part in economic growth. Now I'm actually explaining this pay-as-you-go renovation from the foundation. But these are things that have their history since 2002. The one who wants to understand it just needs to get a little deeper. It is true that this law affects 150,000. There's no doubt about that. However, there is no negative effect. Look, if we were to go, say, with an extra 0.5 in the wider public sector, then we wouldn't be able to eliminate wage imbalances. Then we'd linearly raise wages for all public servants. In 2002, the reforms were aimed at eliminating the imbalance. And since some parts of the public sector in the pay system have already adequately positioned themselves, lastly, education and education with the 2002 annex, which the previous Government signed at the same time as sending the new Wage System Act to the National Assembly, now is also the time for others. We do not deny what education has accomplished. And it's right that teachers put themselves in a position with salaries the way they fit in with this profession. That's right. But now is also the time for others, for health care, for culture and for others. And we absolutely insist that this money that is being collected and half the escalation and additional money from real productivity growth will be directed towards eliminating wage imbalances, not linear distribution of chapters. Again, Urbi et Orbi. Please don't come in the day with demagogia about lowering wages and what I know is, no one can get paid nominally or for a tolar. On the contrary, tens of thousands in the public sector will be paid if the collective agreement is concluded, as in approximately the same contours as is now envisaged, well-increased. That is, the first tranche of January 2008, the second tranche of July 2008 and the third tranche of July 2009.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u28	Anybody else want to discuss this? It's a replica. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u29	Look, Mr. Secretary, I've been very specific about the numbers and the dilemma that you have. Your dilemma is that you're doing salary reform without any extra money. 800, 900 million is the money that is allocated to salaries in the state budget after the full abolition of the tax on paid salaries is introduced. Then, of course, we have municipal authorities and then we have public institutions, which, of course, you do not yet have a collective agreement. So we have to be very careful. But speaking of how much money you spend and whether people will have more or less, the fact is the following. In 2008, your forecast was 2.9% higher nominally than in 2007 with 7% economic growth. And where do you get savings, Mr. Secretary? This is exactly where you get it, because of course you're going to translate the matter into a new, "grades without supplements". Instead of 0.5, 0.3% of the supplement was introduced. And, Minister, the problem is as follows. If you go a little deeper into labour market issues, people in Slovenia who have so far received an allowance for past work and are therefore more expensive for employees, employers will grab it immediately, which you will impose on public servants, public officials and so on. And the problem you're creating, Mr. Minister, is very simple: you've gone into salary reform with only 2.9% of the extra money. That's why you need to change this law by emergency procedure now. Otherwise, people will need to be given some of the effects of economic reforms. Economic reforms tend to lead to higher economic growth. And instead of 7%, you only increase 2.9%. These are the numbers that were identified in this National Assembly. Which is why I object to the notion that the supplement should now be shed from 0.5 to 0.3% because you're bullying older employees. By the way, fellow pensioners, this will have a direct impact on the lower pensions of those who will retire in 10 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening a new application circuit. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Well, let's close this thing. It turned out you didn't get any deeper. In fact, more than 2% are intended for the elimination of wage imbalances. These funds started to be collected in 2004 and are collected from two sources. On the one hand, all employees in the public sector give up the work of the regular annual escalation. So the alignment is consistent with inflation. On the other hand, the government is adding additional resources to this in terms of real productivity growth, i.e. 26% this year, next year 0.93 and 2009 under agreement with the unions 1.55%. This is additional money for the implementation of salary reform, so that the matter is not yet concluded as you have found. We have reached this point in the negotiations so far. This framework may open up somewhat in the final part of the negotiations. In total, we have available to eliminate wage imbalances about 8% of the amount of wage funds. So together, about €210 million will be available for us to put them in those sectors, in those activities where wages are undervalued. And that's not my reform. This is not our reform, this is not the reform of this government. This is a reform that, if we had a responsibility, if we felt responsible for the country, for the taxpayers, for the public servants, we would remember today that this reform is a shared responsibility. By starting in 2002, that a joint government was set up - and the opposition also supported it, that a large majority of the unions supported it - and that this is a reform that we are all responsible for and that we must bring together to the end. Of course, this reform has a financial framework. Because it would be irresponsible for taxpayers to now say, "The point of wage reform is to ask trade unions and judges and other officials what you want, and then we'd put it all together and say, I can tell you, the price would be about ho ho ho..." The price would probably go to billions of euros and then say, "Well, now that's the money we're going to spend on pay reform. You know, wage reform means very close coordination on the one hand of the interests of taxpayers, legitimate interests of taxpayers and, on the other hand, the interests of the 24 representative public sector unions and then those functional groups that do not have their unions, such as judges. It's a story about a work-life allowance. Apparently, we're not coming together today. However, I must stress that if there were 0.5% of the public sector’s public service allowance in the new system, it would actually be increased. In fact, the amount of money for this supplement would increase and in fact make the differences between the younger and the older in the public sector relatively greater than they are today. So it would be an increase. Now it's not a reduction. Because the calculation, as I said before, the calculation shows that, I will say precisely, this budget is 0.33. And the negotiations are not yet concluded. We're at 0.30 right now. Even if we went to 0.4, this would actually mean an increase in the work-life allowance. So you should never take any element of this wage in the new system in a partial way, but you should always look at the whole. But the fact is, we officers have privileges today. 0.5 on the full salary compared to the teacher, the doctor, the clerk, the police, the privilege for us. And this privilege is a privilege for officials, that is, a privilege in terms of comparison between us and others in the pay system and when we go into the new single pay system, we cancel it. Yes, Mr Squeak's salary will be lower after January 1st, not significantly, but slightly lower. And not because you want to be liked and liked by people by lowering functional wages, but simply because it is the only option for a fair transition to a new pay system.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Squeakl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u33	Look, Mr. Secretary! The information presented by the Government to the National Assembly is very clear. 3 billion 376 million money for salaries to government officials, civil servants, public institutions, municipal authorities in public finances in 2008 and 3 thousand 280 million in 2007. 2.9% increase, 80 percent increase, 94 million euros. Indeed, 200 million euros have been raised in the so-called budget fund, but these 200 million euros are being contributed by older ones. On average, more than younger. Because 200 million euros will be filled with 120 million euros of past work supplements that you will not share. Mr Minister, your thesis that the work will be gone or that the individual's salary will be higher - depending on his translation, depending on which supplements you have suspended him, which supplements will be directly available to the individual. It is clear, however, that he will no longer have an individual who has so far had a basic salary of more than 0.5 but will have an allowance according to your proposal 0.3. And I don't have a problem with you accepting this for state officials. I had a problem because you went to the judges to the same logic because you said, "You won't have a lower salary, but those who now have a higher salary will contribute to the fund from which some who will be better rewarded will get a higher salary." That was our problem. I'm not going into the story that we're going to be state officials. Because of me, you can cancel your last job allowance for government officials. I don't have a problem with that. I have a problem that you use this argument against 150 thousand public servants and therefore within the system of public servants from older people you take the resources to finance so-called younger ones. This is the story of your reform because you went into reform without any extra money. And now, of course, the Minister - with regard to shared responsibility. That's right. The common responsibility of all of us is to taxpayers. I couldn't agree more! But Mr. Minister, your Government has only been very irresponsible to these taxpayers in the last few months, and you are now going into a fight with 150 thousand public officials. I strongly advise you not to do so. That is why, of course, we will not support this law alone and in the parliamentary group. The consequences will, of course, be clear within a few weeks, a few months. Of course, the fight will be very interesting after employers take this idea of you and offer it through industry collective agreements for the remaining 550 thousand employees. These are the facts. If you are Minister Bajuk, Prime Minister of the Government and you are fulfilling the measures of the stability programme requiring around EUR 500 million to reduce spending, so that 120 million will go from a reduced spending, a lower allowance for the past work of public servants, then of course I must say that it has started to save at the wrong end. That's why I'm going to oppose this law, and I'm going to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u35	I'm sorry. Well, then I won't speak with this controversy again. But it's funny to think you're discussing something vehemently that doesn't even hold. And with numbers and calculations, I've shown you exactly that you don't, and you just insist on yours, and then you draw conclusions and the consequences of that. Look, this is a pure fiction that money for salary reform is collected from the resources of older workers. It's completely out of the vine. There's no real basis. We contribute money to all public sector employees in exactly the same percentage. Each 1.7., when an escalation is determined, which is slightly lower than the one otherwise. Each of us contributes the same percentage to this disproportionate fund. The state budget also contributes a part to the real growth of productivity. There is no reduction in the work-life allowance. See, very simple calculation: 0.5% of 60 is the same as 0.3%. Is that right? And if, after a new work-time allowance, it's going to be counted from 100, and today it's going to be 60, then if we want to keep it the way it is, we have to lower the percentage. It's so simple math that it can't be any more. Mr. Trofenic is not here. Maybe he could help us out here. Last time we had an argument with him. He's a professor of mathematics, and he can probably teach us all. I had five maths myself, usually in school, so I don't have any serious problems with her. And here the thing is crystal, crystal clear. In addition, we have not been in any conflict with 150 000 civil servants, but we have been at the negotiating table for five years. If anyone was in a fight, it was you who were at the negotiating table from - I think - somewhere in the autumn of 2002 and by the end of 2004 and you left us the difference between the government and the union side at then tolars 100 billion. So you were 100 billion apart. And we have drastically reduced that difference. So, if anyone is going to meet the unions, the public servants working in the public sector, then that's what this government did. Yours, however, has remained far away from at least approximate alignment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u36	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u37	Very briefly. First of all, Mr Minister, if I'm not mistaken, you were also the Secretary of State in that government. You were in that government 2000-2004. And second. In addition to the relative calculation, there is multiplication. 30 years times 0.5 is 15 percentage points. 20 years or 10 years times 0.5 is 5 percentage points. And the one who is 30 years old will have an additional 10 percentage points of five percent diet instead of 15 percentage points. There are relative and there are other mathematical operations. It's a very simple matter. Since you have too little money for this so-called salary reform, you have intervened in reducing this supplement. This is what we have been reminding you of since 2003 or 2004, when they first came up with these ideas. Therefore, Minister, the matter is very simple. Since the economic results are better, since the Government should be saving at this point at the point of rational action in all the state budget items, there is no reason to increase wages by only 2.9 percentage points. That's your problem. This, however, must be resolved with Minister Bajuk and not here and for five years to negotiate with trade unions with 150 000 civil servants, including people who are 30 years of age and who will now contribute 5% more savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u38	Thank you. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u39	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In the government, you've taken care of some government officials before with government regulations. Now this law is being prepared. However, you have already done this for some government officials past this government law and have just rewarded a certain number of civil servants. For example, the Regulation on the conditions and the amount of the allowance for payment of the increased volume, adopted already in May 2006, then here is the Regulation setting out the conditions and extent of the part of the salary for payment of the increased volume of work in the public sector, which has been valid since 1 December 2006, so that you have taken very good care of the Government. So you're on your own. Therefore, I ask you above all: Who is this Regulation or to whom are these Regulations directed? How many of the public servants in this title are paid more? From which budget line have you been financing this for over a year? Indeed, these salaries can be increased by 35% under these regulations. Some by 50%, some by 2007 - it says here - and even by 65%. So it would be good if you could comment on that a little bit. It is true that in this way you will reward - as it says - those officials who work on the project of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union and for certain other international projects. On the other hand, it is true that for many years some in social activities, and especially in culture, receive very low wages which are lagging behind in education at all levels, with salaries in the research and scientific sectors. Thus, in a union of cultural workers or in a union of museum officials, calculations show an average of 20% backlog. Or, say, just one comparison, which I have already said several times in this National Assembly, that a librarian in the school library gets over €400 higher net salary than employees in the same job with the same education in the cultural institution. It is said that there are very large inequalities here. On the other hand, by government regulations, which is much easier, you save a certain structure of government officials. And there's something else I'd like to say about the addition to the last job. You go from 0.5 to 0.3%. I'm absolutely sure it'll be very quick. I repeat, very quickly it became the standard for all salaries in the country, for all employees in the country. First, you will do this to officials, then 15,000 to public servants, then 100,000 to employees in the economy, in all social activities, in the private sector, etc. The experience for employers will be too great and I think they will even be able to think about it by going from 0.3 to 0.0 - it is said - to no extra work time. And I think this action will encourage a union fight in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u40	Thank you. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you that we in the parliamentary group have already said this morning that we do not support the law. Among other things, because of this decline from 0.5% to 0.3% or because some of the rights of the elderly are being reduced. In doing so, I am pleased with any discussion that supports us in this process of decoupling the elderly with regard to their past work. However, it is a miracle that, for example, those who have done so in previous discussions, when we adopted other laws, have shouted at me the whole voice of how pensioners are going to tear down the country, how public finances are going to destroy the economy and how, if they have 0.5% of the supplements, they are terriblely against themselves, as if they are unemployable for this reason. So much for memory. As for other matters, I would actually ask the Minister, because Mr Minister has mentioned that no one is being reduced. Now, if that were the case, we would not now have a proposed guardian as to how it is necessary to protect the salaries of the judges so that nothing will be reduced. It is said that the law also provided for the possibility of reduction. Now we're fixing it. Secondly, the fact that for some there is a possibility of reducing wages by 0.5%, without defending these privileges of those who now have more than a decade's pay of 80%. So those are still allowed minus 5%. In doing so, I would simply ask that the Minister not respond in such a way that I am fighting for privileges, but I find facts which are probably not disputed and which are not exactly in line with what Mr Minister has just said about wage cuts. In addition, we have opposed certain imbalances. And those disproportionate visas of various branches of authority and also the disproportionateity that the Council of Justice had warned of, and someone else within the branch of the judiciary. These are our warnings. I think there are no mistakes if we ever agree with the warnings of the Council of Justice or anyone else, although their interest is of course affected. And we're not defending any special privilege. But I would defend the privilege, conditionally speaking, of working in culture and in education. So, to all teachers and teachers and cultural workers, I would allow them to have the same percentage of their past jobs as we have. Well, we're not against them getting their wages up. There is no reason for us not to take part in this, perhaps even in high economic growth, in suggesting that this economic growth will not just stop at high profits. I think it would be good if even those who are now deprived were allowed to be equalized to those whom you have appointed privileged.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u43	Thank you very much. There's something I owe you. First of all, Mr. Bevk, who isn't in the hall. The increased volume of work is a normal incentive part of the salary, which ensures certain flexibility in the public sector's pay system. Without it, we would have been caught in some unimaginable tightness and could not have been better rewarded by those who work more and better. And it's true that for a number of years it was only for the state administration. But I'll say again, a number of years in times of past government. In this mandate, however, we have extended this option to the whole public sector. Have you forgotten? We have also extended the possibility of paying an increased amount of work with the previous amendment of the Wage System Act to culture, including health care, including education and so on. You spit in your own bowl or remind me that I must say what was done in this mandate for the benefit of public sector employees. The source for this increased volume of work is reflected in the law provided for in the last Regulation. The law clearly states, "It's financed from salary savings." So if we have savings due to maternity leave and so on, we can better reward those who are more burdened and for specific projects of national importance. For the time being, we have only three such projects: one is the abolition of waiting periods in health care; the other is the EU Presidency, when officials of the state administration, some, extremely burdened, at the threshold of overburning, would hope to say so, given that we have a small administration. A third such project is written in the law today. This is the removal of the judicial backlog. Three such projects are where extra money is provided for the payment of the increased volume of work. And this is a great mechanism that we need in the public sector. If you ever shut it down, you'll make a big, very unwise move. Mr Bevko and I absolutely agree in one point: the wages of cultural workers are undervalued. And in the government's proposal for a collective agreement for the public sector, culture is exactly the kind of activity that is relatively the largest to receive. So, help with the transition to a new pay system with 1 January next year, Mr Bevk, and culture will get its own. Ask the unionists, the suggestions offered by the government side are very, very beneficial for culture, just as you said yourself, to equalize themselves to bring closer to the education and education that has been given on the basis of the annex. 0.5, 0.3. Just one more time. There's nothing to take on public servants. On the contrary, if we kept 0.5, this would mean an increase in the labour-time allowance and an additional 120 million euros. But it's true that we take our officers. That's right. And it is also true that in the whole system, in the whole of the salary system, nominal salaries can be reduced only to the official, and not to the judicial officer, and only up to 5%. So the only person who can lose anything here is you, me, or another official who isn't a judge. For civil servants and judges, the nominal salary is secured. And now, again, fear that this will encourage employers to lower their allowance for working time in the private sector - because they came up with this proposal in the Labour Relations Act and the government did not agree with them. In the National Assembly you have received or will receive the Labour Relations Act without this, as this was clearly and loudly stated. So you don't get scared of something that isn't. By the way, when we're at 0.5 and 0.3. The unions themselves, the representative public sector unions, have already reduced their proposal to 0.4. This is said to be perfectly clear to them that a visa raise of 0.4 already means the current state of the visa. If I'm quite precise, as I said before, 0.33 would be a precise reflection, maybe we have some more room to negotiate, but the unions have already dropped to 0.4. So please don't scare me with something that isn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u45	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I have been dealing with this problem myself since the beginning, whether it was 2002 or before, I would have found it difficult to say, but from the beginning. And I hope that this matter could have been concluded long ago if the previous party of the proposer of this amendment might have had the opportunity to do so or if it did not realize that in solving such a systemic problem it would not be necessary to bite into any sour apple or perhaps a little less sweet and that things are not black and white. However, with regard to the content of this amendment, I would say that it is difficult to say anything at all after all because, in fact, the information with which the applicant operated is as much hair as most of the debates have so far in the National Assembly. So I don't want to feel sorry for him. I've told him many times so he knows I don't think anything bad about him. However, the numbers it is stressing here in Parliament are exactly the same in every debate when it comes to numbers. They're attracted to their hair. They don't have any smart, real bases. I am glad that today, after two and a half years, he admitted for the first time that all of his discussions so far were somehow over and that the numbers were not real, but only some of the extracts he wanted to show. I am glad that he has admitted for the first time today that things are not catastrophic, but that economic growth is only high. Since he's always said in every debate, "The thing will collapse, you'll lead to an impossible situation..." I won't mention it. I'm going to list this another time, specific cases because I've chosen the whole debate and I'm going to quote them so that they stay at the general level. In doing so, he has only proved that all the debates so far on numbers do not have a real basis. In particular, I would mention tax legislation where everything was completely wrong. Everything will collapse, and today we see that statistics show exactly the opposite, and if we followed his well-intentioned advice on how he wants to save the law, then something would really be wrong and statistics today would be completely different. All I would mention is that they were mentioned older ones. I think that there was a very similar debate on disaster at the beginning of the mandate, when this Government prepared a new system of calculation of pension calculations, is meant to calculate pensions for pensioners. At the time, everything was catastrophic, and today we see that everyone recognizes that this calculation is better. I'm not saying it's ideal, maybe we'll find it even better, but it's better than the last one, but then it was also said that everything was wrong. Let this be only in support and these numbers - with all due respect - are about as if they came from the Owl. They're not registered anywhere. They're not recorded. But there's a lot of noise going on, and I think that's the main purpose of this whole debate about this amendment that doesn't have a basis. That's what I'm saying. Thank you. Which is why, of course, I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u47	I must, of course, tell my colleague Petan that the numbers I mention are the numbers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - Ministry of Finance, documents published in the Rapporteur of the National Assembly. These are the numbers that the Government sent us in September 2006, when the state budget was submitted. So much for numbers. Second, about economic growth. Economic growth is linked to high indebtedness and tax reform. However, a tax reform that has given some an opportunity to increase significantly if you want, especially consumption, especially sustainable consumer goods. And there's very few of them. These are a few thousand, 10, 15 thousand people who, as we have already said several times, will acquire very large assets by reducing on one side the maximum income margin and by changing the taxation of capital gains into tax. And this is what drives economic growth in Slovenia today. This drives, by the way, also prices on the real estate market. That's why we have 1% inflation every month in the last three, four months. That's what we should be worried about. And so, of course, if you have 7% economic growth and if, in the wake of the tax reform of 800,000 taxpayers on income, which are, say, the subject of today's debate, only 10,000 of them have received a big tax gift. The other 790 000 received only a few euros a month, three, four euros from the tax reform. Then, of course, taking 120 million euros from past work is a wrong and a bad move. But there's nothing else the Minister can do. We used to learn basic mathematical operations before we went to relative numbers. It follows from the basic mathematical operations that they will contribute to this wage reform by financing, with lower than they would have had had had if they had not reduced the allowance to the previous work mainly by the older. And that's the story-- you hit those who have lower wages, and you hit those who are longer employed. I conclude that a few days ago, someone at a party meeting said that the next step is to reform the labour market. If the reform of the labour market, based on the logic of what is proposed here, means that the supplement for the past work will first be reduced from 0.5 to 0.3 and changed from the appendix for the past work to the labour force supplement, even more problems will be created in the labour market than we have. Problems for those with the biggest problems on the market today. And these are people who work for 3, 6, 9 months on a temporary basis, they're not permanently employed, because, of course, "employees don't want that". And I conclude. Economic growth is unusually high because it is an unusually high debt. That's what we're warning you about. Take a look at Monday's FT app and you'll see. The debt from the construction of the highway drives the growth of construction. Construction contributes to this economic growth inappropriately more than in the past period. Plus, you need to know that in the first quarter of the year you had an unusual nice winter, and that's why we also had a high economic growth. Whether this growth is sustainable for a long time, we will discuss it further. But she's clearly in charge of the debt. And if you have high income, then don't save on the ones that are hardest on them. People with lower wages and people who work longer because, of course, this will mean that a large proportion of public servants will be retired after 10 years in the category of socially disadvantaged people. That's what your government does.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u49	When we in the DeSUS Group are somehow trying to protect the interests of the elderly, two images are created, according to our judgment, not the most accurate. On the one hand, the image of how to make one against the downgrading of privileges. And, on the other hand, how could we exercise the same privileges to those who do not now have them threaten to demolish public finances, overburdens and so on. I would like to say, as I said before, that our ambition and our opposition to reducing any privileges. But our ambition is that in this great redistribution of the social wealth that has been happening and is still happening, there is also more involved in those who are now threatened by this 0.3 and whom we think it would be right to be aligned with those who have 0.5 on all pay and not just on the basis. Does this now bring public finances and economic growth and everything else? However, it is not only a matter of mathematical calculation, but also the question of our will whether we have as structured a budget as we now have, and whether we have as structured tax legislation as we now have it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u50	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u51	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Mr Minister, you said earlier that employers had already turned to the government and that they had demanded that this supplement be abolished at the working age of 0.5% for each year. It makes sense that you were against such a proposal. It wouldn't be right, I'd say, to please them. Not for public servants. And that another 150,000 would still have 0.5%. Therefore, it is logical that you will now go to 0.3% of all 150 thousand civil servants with this law. And I guarantee you, Mr. Minister, I don't know at what time, I think you'll be faced with a new employer's demand to reduce this percentage to either 0.3% or zero, I would say, this supplement at work. So I'm almost going to bet with you that you're going to face this problem soon, not only with 150,000 civil servants, but also with 100,000 employees in the economy, in the private sector, everywhere where this system is now in effect, that I can't talk about lunches, regress and so on. Employers will certainly not give in, despite the fact that the government and everyone boasts about the size of economic growth in the country, in fact of which they have the most capital owners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u53	Let me once again present to you the alternative and possible scenarios that the Government also has before it, of course, when it is now negotiating with representative public sector unions. It's theoretically possible. In theory, it would be possible to increase the work-time allowance in this way, from 0.5% to 60% of the salary, so to speak, to raise it to 0.5 to the full salary. However, this would cost EUR 120 million from the mass to eliminate wage imbalances, which simply means that there would be no real wage imbalances. Of course, there would be a linear rise in wages in all sectors, including those already properly positioned, such as, say, education and education, and would be lacking for those who are effectively undervalued, such as, say, culture, health care, social protection, for example. If anyone is really undervalued in the current system, it's, like, a middle nurse in a nursing home. Look at those payrolls, and you'll see where we have to take care of the salary hikes. And that's what the government is offering through the collective agreement. If we went to offer 0.5 per year of work, then we should lower that offer to increase in culture, in social, in health. You probably already understand that some financial framework must be set up by all this government in the context of wage reform. It's a normal thing. And even if you in the government weren't so irresponsible as to gamble on a state with wage reform in the public sector. So we're going this way to eliminate the wage imbalances, but all the time we have a real financial framework that we don't go through. And in these last days, weeks, perhaps even days of negotiations, it's also about the union side trying to strain this framework. Of course, he tries it, and they may be able to do it for a little while longer. But because of our responsibility to the taxpayers, we have to set a limit when we say from here on out we can no longer give in. And wage reform cannot be the sum of the wishes of the 24 unions, plus the judges and, at the final stage, I don't know, us Members and ministers, for example. And I think that in this story, we are the officers that can happen to us, which will happen to us some slight fall in wages, irrelevant. That's not what this is about. Now it's the salaries of 150,000 civil servants. That's what this is about. I don't think it really matters here whether, I don't know, my salary or your salary is going to be 2, 3% lower, because that allows for the reasons that I've explained ten times. This allows a normal transition to a new pay system without some elementary inequalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I'm opening another round of reports. Check-in is on. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. I would ask if you would limit yourself to the debate and debate on the amendment. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u55	It's not about whether I'm fighting for the minister to have a little less or a little more pay or me. The point is, 0.5 also means 0.5 for a nurse in the nursing home that you mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u56	The word has magic. Squeak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr President, the matter is very simple. The logic you have presented is the same logic that has led the Constitutional Court to reject this law. One judge cannot finance other judges and one public official cannot finance culture, social and health. Where's he going to save himself, Mr. Secretary? For example, it saves on the government’s material cost item, which increases by 10% and pays by 2.9. And what are the material costs of the state administration? Cars, new ones. We bought OSCE, I don't know how many new Audis. I don't know what. 8 or which are already etc. That's what I'm talking about. The increase in material costs is 10%, from EUR 1076 million to EUR 1166 million. However, the increase in wages is 3200 million, 3.2 billion euros 2.9%. In order for culture, social, health care to receive more, this will be financed by those who have lower wages and who have longer employment because they will have lower savings, lower supplements to past work. That's the logic. Because of this logic, the matter has fallen to the Constitutional Court, and I believe it will fall now.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u58	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u59	As far as material costs are concerned in the public administration, much could be discussed as to how cost-effective or unsustainable a government has been.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u60	Although we are discussing this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u61	However, I was challenged to the subject of material costs in the state administration. Yes, the current government. The former government acquired a luxury plane called Falcone. The current Government has leased air transport services and aircraft rental services that are also 20 or 30 years old and can lively look at the difference between some Falcon and those aircraft with which the current Government is flying when it cannot use regular lines. So here they are, the universes are intertwined, that's the difference. For the first time in cars, we introduced common public procurement and reduced costs. We have reduced mobile phones by 1/3 compared to the past, not to mention. Once again, I would like to throw away your barb that public servants who are older will contribute more years of work to the elimination of wage imbalances. It just can't hold. The one who claims it has not deepened or has problems with mathematics or is simply biased because some of it has to be. It's not like that. Look, in the case of officials, the wages are falling due to the transition from 0.5 to 0.3, and the judges' nominal salary is now protected, but not us. This is not the case with public servants. Because the current 0.5 per part of the salary is 0.3. I'll be precise again, 0.33 on a new base. As a result of this decline, no one contributes to the elimination of imbalances due to their years of working age. In order to eliminate the imbalances, resources are being acquired in accordance with an agreement concluded by the Government with the 18 representative public sector unions last year, where it was specifically agreed that one part of the regular annual escalation should be acquired on this item, that the Government adds one part of the money to this, depending on the real growth of productivity. That's the deal we made. Are we going to extend this financial framework a little longer in the final phase of the negotiations, or are the unions going to demand and agree to deploy these negotiating venues a little longer? I just don't think it makes sense. It's okay to let the unions know, not operate on them publicly. But what I'm saying is, if the money collected to eliminate the pay gap is given up to a higher percentage for past work, we're gonna run out of disproportionates in basic salaries, because the past job is a linear raise for everyone. The essence of the reform is precisely disproportionate. By giving more to those who are underestimated and most undervalued in culture, social protection, health care and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u62	Mag. Squeakle, I think you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u63	Very briefly. If it were true that you were saving, then material costs would not be increased by 10% in 2008 to 2007, 2007, 2006, but rather reduced. Minister, these are your data, Government of the Republic of Slovenia Rapporteur of the National Assembly - raise material costs. And that, the one who has 30 years of working age - 15% points. One who has zero years of working age - no addition to past work. The difference between them decreases 15% points to 10% points, so he who is older contributes more to this saving.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If you consider lowering the salaries of officials for the greatest achievement of this law - you have said this before - then your project is flawed and is demagogic and populist. I have already said that, for government officials who will preside over the European Union, you have already made sure that, even during the presidency, they will have an increase of not more than 75% in salaries next year. That's what these regulations say that I quoted earlier. So, some of you have taken very, very good care of. We are not against wage regulation in culture and health. You mentioned earlier, like, a nurse. No, we're not against it. It's been a while since this happened. However, we are opposed to taking one and then giving this money to others, so that you will then give this money, which you will save in addition to working hours, for wages in culture and for wages in health care, nurses and lower health care personnel. So I'd say I won't support this marriage. Not because you're always making exceptions. Officers, you're going to lower your wages to everyone in a row. But you have ruled out the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u66	I find that no one wants to discuss it anymore, so I am concluding the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 13th item of the agenda, or no later than midnight. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COURT'S LAW - Urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr Robert Marolt, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to adopt a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judicial Service following an urgent procedure whereby the Law on Judicial Service is aligned with the Constitution and is being upgraded. Some have already been adopted by institutions with a view to improving the effectiveness of the judicial authority in overcoming judicial backlogs, in the Lukend project and in ensuring the constitutional and conventional right to a trial without undue delay. It should be clarified that there are indeed legitimate differences between the Government and the professional public on some issues, where prior coordination, although many proposals have been taken into account by the professional public, has not led to full harmonisation. In Del, which means compliance with the Constitution, the bill is intended to achieve, in accordance with the envisaged harmonisation of the Public Sector Wages Act with the Constitution - as discussed earlier - the key objective of wage reform in the public sector, which, in establishing the wage system for officials and public servants. This includes important provisions on the promotion of a judge in a pay grade, in a higher court title in the same court seat, on the binding of the basic salary to a salary class for a court title or position in which the judge is appointed, on the prohibition of the reduction of the basic salary at the time of the performance of the judicial service, on the possibility of including a judge up to two salary classes higher than the basic grade, and on the provision on the right to an allowance, as part of the salary scheme in the public sector, on the part of the salary for regular work and on the performance of the increased work. The remainder of the bill includes amendments to ensure the effective resolution of judicial backlogs and the execution of the judicial service. It is proposed to supplement the assessment of the judicial service by also taking into account the number of court settlements concluded. In addition, the Institute of Interdistrict and Inter-Circular Judges shall be replaced by District or District Judges serving in a higher court and may be assigned to the first instance, district or district court within the territory of the same or other higher court for the purpose of replacing the absent judges of the extraordinary proceedings with cases or handling cases in other justified cases. With regard to the proposed amendment to the Institute of Mobile Judges, the proposer explains that a change to the Law on Courts is also envisaged in this regard, with which the Institute will be fully revived in practice. It is also proposed to speed up and rationalise the tendering procedures for the free seats, as it is noted that, given the current organisation of the candidatures in the district courts, they last up to 6 months and even on the district courts on average up to 9 months. In this regard, in the vast majority of cases, the Personal Councils of the District Court submit their opinions on the candidate for judicial service within a period which is substantially above the 30 days legally envisaged, in some cases also by more than 100%. Therefore, the applicant also proposes to amend the powers to draw up only opinions on the applicants for judicial office, which would fall within the competence of the President of the Court. Such a solution is also considered from the point of view of the number of personal councils which all 44 district courts do not already have. In view of the fact that the President of the Court is responsible for the functioning of the Court itself, in such a transfer of powers, his interest and responsibility for the full and adequate permanent employment of the courts in a particular court should be sought in particular, which is a prerequisite for the smooth and effective exercise of the judiciary and the trial within a reasonable time. In this regard, we also explain that an appropriate change of jurisdiction is also envisaged in the Law on Courts, which will follow this proposal of law. Although, formally, only some provisions of the bill relate to the envisaged regulation of salaries of officials or judges with the proposed amendment of the Public Sector Wages Act, it should be noted that the reform of judicial salaries also pursues the same objectives as the other provisions of the bill: the early implementation of the regime which establishes a sense of stability, which will undoubtedly have a positive impact on the performance of judicial authorities and the abolition of judicial backlogs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the committee president, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Good-bye! The Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice also considered this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements at its 38th emergency meeting. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. In his introductory explanation, the representative explained that the draft law follows the objective of aligning the Judicial Service Act with the Constitutional Court's decision and in accordance with the envisaged regulation of the Public Sector Wages Act, as discussed at the previous point. These are mainly provisions governing the judge's basic salary and allowances. The result of the coordination was a provision that, at the time of election or appointment, a judge may be classified in up to two salary classes higher than that of the tariff class in which he is assigned, provided that the Council of Justice finds that there are reasonable grounds for doing so. This section also includes a provision to allow for the promotion of the highest judges for one pay grade, as well as a new definition of on-call and readiness, which is also drawn up on a health-care basis. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service who participated in the meeting mentioned in the introduction that the proposed amendments to the Committee largely remove the written comments made by that service. However, she pointed to some questions concerning the Law on Courts, explaining that the relevant amendment to the Law on Courts was already in preparation. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also raised the issue of the evaluation of inactive hours, explaining that the proposed regime for the evaluation and recording of inactive hours of duty is appropriate and reasonable, meaning that inactive hours of duty during full-time work are considered to be regular work. This also regulates the method of evaluation for such on-calls. Representatives of the Council of Justice and of the Slovenian Judicial Society also participated. The President of the Council of Justice presented their opinion and said that the proposal for a law dealt with by an emergency procedure, in addition to the provisions relating to the payment system, also interfered with certain system-wide regimes of the judiciary. In his view, therefore, it would make sense, in the opinion of the President of the Council of Justice, to allow for a wider debate on these issues. However, the President of the Slovenian Judicial Society said that the company objected to the fact that the provisions of the law, which were not directly linked to the payment system, were being dealt with in an urgent manner. Members and members of the Committee raised the issue of urgency in the debate. Thus, on the basis of the opinion of the representatives of the judiciary, Member Potrč proposed a proposal for an amendment to the committee by which those articles of the bill relating to the payment system would be eliminated or deleted. However, this proposal did not receive support. It has also been pointed out by some provisions compared to the Judicial Service Act and the sense of decreasing the role of the Judicial Council has been highlighted. The Committee adopted the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and, in the end, all the articles of the law together.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u71	Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! The new Law on Judicial Service was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, which found that certain articles of the law were incompatible with the Constitution. Non-compliance relates to a new pay scheme, which was also the reason for the consideration of the Wage System Act at the 1st item of today's agenda. The last amendment to the Judicial Service Act introduced a reform of the judges' salaries. Increased mobility of judges was ensured, the legal basis for the reactivation of retired judges and a more detailed assessment of the judicial service. The purpose of the proposed novel is, of course, to comply first with the Constitutional Court decision or the definitive implementation of the new wage system in the public sector. In addition, the law brings some other - in our firm belief - important and necessary changes, which should further optimize the functioning of Slovenian courts. We have already expressed our agreement on the pay system in the Public Sector Act. This, of course, is also the case with the proposed amendment, which, in our view, meets the requirements of the Constitutional Court and eliminates the discrepancies found with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This changes the procedures for free judicial posts. The shortening of some deadlines in calls is, in our view, necessary. Indeed, the proceedings so far are too long and often contribute to the actual obstruction of the work of the courts. In particular, the proposal strengthens the role of the President of the Court of Justice in which the vacant seat is drawn up. It is the President of the Court who, following the proposed regulation, would make an assessment of the appropriateness of the candidates applied for. Given that the President of the Court is responsible for the effective exercise of judicial authority in court and the resolution of judicial arrears, it seems reasonable for us to assume greater responsibility in this connection in the selection of new judges. Of course, it would be a good long-term competence to sanction this in the event of the Court President's irresponsible conduct. Undoubtedly, the proposed solution contributes both to the effectiveness and strengthening of the role of the President of the Court and to increasing his responsibility for the successful work of the Court. The proposed law also opens the way for judges to move forward faster. As a form of stimulation to judges who will successfully solve judicial backlogs. This solution is welcome. However, it is worth noting that the rapid resolution of judicial backlogs should not be the reason for the less quality work of an individual judge, as this could mean an actual extension of proceedings due to the use of regular and exceptional remedies based on judicial or judicial errors. On the basis of this, it is clear that we support the proposed amendment of the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u72	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I say first of all that it was good to hear in the introduction, otherwise it was about harmonising the Judicial Service Act with the Constitution. But I'd like to say it's about regulating the Judicial Service Act because of unconstitutionality. The contents are the same. But it sounds different. In fact, we are back in one of the laws that are unconstitutional and that need to be regulated. As far as wage work is concerned, there is no point in repeating it because time is precious. We've already told our story in the first law. As for the content of this law, which again or again or continues to abolish judicial arrears, the Lukenda project, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I ask and finally want to get one answer. We had a project called Hercules. We had a project called Lukende. We've already got the Lukend project going on. We have thousands of ways to stimulate, no results. I don't know if they are. We have been working with the distinguished Secretary of State for several years. I want to help him, and I want the system of division of district, district courts to be deployed so that it will be a quicker solution without Lukende and Hercules. Unfortunately, there's not a response yet. Let's drop it. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I would just like to draw attention to what the Council of Justice has pointed out. At the outset, it was stressed by the president that an urgent procedure was under way, underlined. Well, the urgent procedure certainly excuses changes such as the provisions on the classification of a judge in pay grade, the provision on the advancement of judges, on duty and readiness. All the other changes in this law, which we are talking about today, I stress that all the other amendments introduced by the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service are deeply affecting the system of the judiciary. Therefore, it is not appropriate to deal with the urgency. A broader debate would be needed. The Council of Justice proposes that provisions not linked to the implementation of salary reform be excluded from this procedure and treated on a regular basis. And that would be the only thing right. The Council of Justice also points to the inequality or inequality of judges who will be elected to the courts of the District Courts in the future compared to judges who have already been elected and placed in the initial payment classes. If we have a warning from the Council of Justice, which is very important in terms of deep interference with content, regarding the separation of urgent and regular proceedings, at least the National Assembly, as the legislative branch of power, should be the one to take this into account. This is not the invention of the Slovenian National Party. This is the conclusion of the Council of Justice. But apparently, the Council of Justice doesn't mean anything in any kind of hurry, in an arrow that's going somewhere, and the consequences will be, and of course, they're clear. Once again, the worst part of all this is that if you support such a law, it should be supported because it corrects unconstitutionality. You can't support it because it's not good because it's not the right procedure because the findings of the Council of Justice and a lot of people are. On the other hand, you can’t oppose this law because we will have an opening tomorrow or tomorrow to support an unconstitutional law. And such games, you know, because they're not stupid, they're very smart ideas, we're not going to the Slovenian National Party. I really don't. Because we have an unconstitutional marriage, but now we've fixed it, we've written something down quickly, and now we've backed up that you're going to show that you're against unconstitutionality. Of course it's a great game. But that's not how it works. This is the way in which we cannot work in the legislative branch of power. And in the Slovenian National Party we are appalled by such procedures. This is now the second law, and we still have the next and the next one, which is exactly the same principle. One is unconstitutional and the other is now unconstitutional. Back him up, even though he's bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Well, since we are talking this morning about the chaining of individual laws, which are only based in one, in the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages, it is clear that there will also be similar or similar concerns in the various proposals for laws. Some, however, have additional concerns. As far as the DeSUS Group is concerned, concerns regarding the compatibility of the law with the Constitution have already been raised in the previous law. We believe that there have been indications that there has been inadequate root adaptations to the law, that it is possible to persist in this assessment, and that nothing will be better now. In short, it will be minor corrections that will not change the principle in any way. Of course, this marriage is not just about weaknesses. It is also about some good solutions supported by the DeSUS Group, whether it is about the proposaler trying to increase efficiency, to try to reduce judicial backlogs, to speed up Lukend's project in order to maintain a judicial function even after the suspension of judicial service or something else. In short, we support some things. However, for a substantial purpose, this proposal for a law will not meet our expectations. The main purpose is to comply with the Constitution, because of this chain of non-compliance, but the wages will remain, although elsewhere written, not in the decree, but in the law, but according to the content of the same or the classification in the pay grade will remain almost the same. So it's just a few pardons. However, what is new in this law, with a number of concerns being raised, is an adjustment to minor changes, as set out in the introduction, which do not appear to all to be so insignificant. It's a transfer of jurisdiction. Today's already mentioned objection that the urgent procedure is right for these changes and we think in the DeSUS Group that it is possible to draw such warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service in Parliament, which spoke of the conflict of various laws that we are causing by this and then we are forced to introduce new laws that will correct conflicts. It is also possible to appeal to the Council of Justice, which is simply saying that this urgent procedure is inadequate in relation to the modification of certain powers. But they're not just talking about the procedure. The procedure is, if I paraphrase a little bit, hando-hitting. But the point of being quick is that something changes without seeing why it goes, but also that it is not necessary. If that were necessary, of course we would not resist these changes. This will likely result in a change in the Law on Courts because we are now doing something that is not necessary. The Council of Justice is of the opinion that this will not make it more effective. It considers that there will be no special burden on the judiciary or that the Presidents of the Courts will even be burdened, even further burdened, which is unlikely to be disputed, and somehow suggests that the evaluation of the Council of Justice and the Personal Council is at the expense of the greater authority of the Presidents of the Courts. It is questionable to intervene in this mere administration set up by the judicial system. So why can't the DeSUS Group contribute its votes in support of this law? Because, for the first time, we are reading, as in the previous law, inconsistent respect for the Constitutional Court's decision, so to speak, the flashing of this decision. Secondly, it is our observation about the inappropriate transfer of power and the urgency of this procedure. Thirdly, it seems to us that it has actually occurred to us that we are occasionally satisfied with any change, just so that we do not have to face an obvious constitutional complaint. This cannot be something that we would support by adopting new legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the Government. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group supports the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Judicial Service Act. The Constitutional Court, by its decision relating to those provisions governing the salaries of judges, state prosecutors and state lawyers, has caused the need to amend the Law on Judicial Service, which we are considering today. The proposed law provides for a system-wide regulation in the field of salaries of officials, as prepared in the amendment to the Public Sector Wage System Act. The proposal therefore deletes those parts of the current law which refer to the regulation in the Regulation on the salaries of officials and the collective agreement for the public sector. In addition, the law in question shortens certain prescribed deadlines, making the procedures for the appointment of new judges faster. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party also welcome the strengthening of the role of the President of the Courts, which will ensure greater efficiency and, of course, also the responsibility of individual judges, as well as of the President of the Court himself. Since the desire to eliminate judicial backlogs is still very present and a priority in Slovenia, it is therefore welcome that the proposed law, with some amendments, makes it possible to make the courts more efficient without jeopardising the quality of the trial. Therefore, it is important to ensure the continuity of judges in lower-ranking courts. At the same time, it also provides for the stimulation of the ongoing resolution of judicial backlogs. The aim of the speedy resolution of judicial backlogs is also to amend the legal institute of inter-regional and inter-district judges, which can be allocated to another district or district court for a certain period, with the decision of the President of the higher court if the allocation within a higher court area is to take place. However, if this is to be the case, it will be decided by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. So the role of the President, as has already been said, is significantly more stressed than it has been so far. In doing so, he himself will have a more direct impact on the more or less successful work of the court, which he is leading and, of course, also on the effectiveness of remedying judicial backlogs within the area of the court he runs. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will therefore support the proposed law with the expectation that this law will further accelerate the work of the courts, which will become more effective in the future and their work in a qualitative manner, in the light of the laws and other measures already adopted by the Ministry of Justice as well as the judiciary itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Ms Lovtišar Bebler has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Again, following an urgent procedure and reasoning that it is only to comply with the Public Sector Wages Act and the Constitutional Court's decision, we are today considering one of the laws which, with the proposed amendments, deeply interferes with the system regime of the judiciary, which would undoubtedly require a broader and thorough debate, in which we would also listen to the reasoned concerns of the entities to which these amendments relate. With regard to the classification of court salaries in the salary system, which is otherwise applicable to public servants, we have concerns. With regard to the remaining amendments to the Law on Judicial Service, which we accept as a matter of urgency, we have very serious concerns or objections. Not to mention that the amendments to the Law on Judicial Service and others in this area in this mandate are to be sorted according to the current lane and, as a rule, by emergency procedure. Their main focus, however, is apparently to ensure the greater impact of the Minister of Justice. So, the politicians and executive authorities for the recruitment of the judiciary. Let me only recall the complications of the appointment of the President of the District Court in Ljubljana and then the impact on the distortion of the powers of the college authorities in court, on the depriving of the powers and role of the Council of Justice and so on. The proposal for a law entitles the power to draw up opinions on candidate procedures from the personal councils to the Presidents of the Courts. Although the personal councils have been successfully established in the last 15 years and the scope of their powers is appropriate and balanced both in relation to the Presidents of the Courts, Judges and the Council of Justice. There is therefore no compelling argument for precisely such proposed changes. With regard to the proposal that the Council of Judges, at the time of election and also of appointment to a higher court, could rank one or two pay grade higher, if there were reasonable grounds for that, it should be noted that the inequality of judges to be elected to the courts of the District Courts is introduced in the future, compared to those judges who have already been elected and placed in the initial pay grade. There are also no serious reasons for transferring the powers of decision on the regular progress of judges to the pay grade and on the promotion of senior and supreme judges as a councillor after nine years of judicial office in a higher or Supreme Court of Justice to the Presidents of the Courts. What are the actual reasons for strengthening the powers and powers of the Presidents of the Courts also in relation to the personal councils and the Council of Justice? If we link this issue to recent amendments to the law that have strengthened the position of the Minister of Justice in appointing the Presidents of the Courts, the answer is in hand. It is unacceptable that such serious infringements into the system regime of the judiciary should be decided by means of an urgent procedure, they have also warned and justified the Court of Justice and the Slovenian Judicial Society, which also object to many proposals from a substantive point of view. However, the proposer has no hearing for these objections. That is why we will not support this bill in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The debates so far show that it is difficult to talk in public, as well as in the National Assembly, about judicial salaries. In Slovenia, the constitutional principle of the division of power into a legislative, enforcement and judicial branch applies. The judicial branch is one that must be independent, impartial, the foundation of justice and also the strongest pillar of the rule of law. Some point to the apparent ease of the profession, which is generally perceived in this regard, by the fact that once elected to the seat of a judge or judge, no one can get him out of his position. And this kind of thinking has grown to the point where the judicial profession has actually become less valued and the attitude towards paying judges for their work is also appropriate. Nevertheless, judges must receive an appropriate salary for their work. In this respect, salaries must be comparable to other salaries of officials. However, it is not irrelevant that, compared to some other professions, judges are also partially prevented from obtaining certain other funds from other sources. Not just with pay, like doctors, lawyers and similar professions. Above all, there is a problem and an obvious issue, major problems and high fluctuations, which makes experienced judges decide to go to better paid jobs or even leave the judiciary profession. The above-mentioned problems and dilemmas are always open and always open when adopting changes in the regime of the payroll system of the judiciary. Therefore, we are certainly not in an easy situation as a legislator. On the one hand, be sensitive to the tendency to maintain the best professional staff, the best lawyers in the framework of judicial types. On the other hand, we must also take into account the fact that this profession must also be properly placed in a system comparable to other officials or public servants. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Judicial Service Act therefore refers to the Public Sector Wage System Act already under consideration. In addition to the arrangement of the pay system, it brings certain solutions that seek to ensure the continuity of judges in lower courts. We must certainly stress here in our Group of Members and acknowledge to the Minister of Justice that the provision of Article 11 and the related Article 32 have taken an important step forward. The Ministry of Justice is aware of all the problems in lower courts, district courts and amended provisions, and seeks to achieve greater employment and interest in judges staying at this level of the judiciary when it is proposed to move forward to the higher grades within this level or within the framework of district courts. The bill also drew close to the compromise proposal proposed by the Council of Justice in the system of salaries in public servants. The result of the coordination with the Council of Justice is that a judge may also be classified in up to two salary classes higher than that in which he or she is appointed, provided that the Council finds that there are particular reasons for this. In our parliamentary group, we also support the proposed solutions in terms of shortening the invitation to tender for new judges, strengthening the role of the President of the Court and simplifying the Institute of Mobile Judges. In the New Slovenia Group, we hope that despite some of the concerns of the Council of Justice and the judiciary, changes in the law will come into practice and have a positive impact on the work of judges and the resolution of cases. We are aware, however, that there will be a number of changes that will put the system at balance, but which are not solely dependent on this law. We'll support the changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u82	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 13th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 23. This is on the defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Defence - by urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Robert Marolt, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u83	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also submitted to the National Assembly for consideration a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Defence, amending or supplementing certain provisions of the Law on State Defence following an urgent procedure, which is also essential for the effective functioning of the State defence as representatives of the interests of the State and of the public interest in particular before the courts. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing this law, in which most of the provisions of a posting or definition nature are in particular aligning with the decision of the Constitutional Court concerning the salary system of officials of December 2006 and containing the necessary references or alignment with the proposed amendment of the system law on public sector wages, as you have considered at the beginning of today. With the proposed amendments, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia aims primarily to achieve the following objectives: Firstly: to eliminate the non-compliance of the first indent of Article 35 of the Act with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia; Secondly: to regulate the salary system of state lawyers is comparable to that of other officials in the judiciary. Of course, taking into account the specificity of the State's defence, that state lawyers are not part of the judiciary and that, in contrast to, for example, the State's Attorney's Office does not even mention them and therefore, in regulating their situation, including salaries and other benefits, the broader field of discretion remains. Thirdly: to harmonise the provisions of the State Defence Act in accordance with the envisaged harmonisation of the Public Sector Wages Act with the Constitution by achieving the key objective of wage reform in the public sector, which is to establish a common, transparent and legitimate pay system for officials and public servants. The essential solutions to the bill's proposal are, in accordance with the envisaged system-wide wage arrangements for officials in the Public Sector Salaries System Act, the salaries of the public defender will consist of a basic salary corresponding to the pay grade for the function to which he is appointed. Secondly, he works for the work performance salary, which includes regular work performance and work performance, as a result of the increased work volume. And third time, extras as part of the salary. The types of conditions and levels of allowances will be laid down in the Public Sector System Wage Act, as for other officers in the judiciary. The bill also contains a very important provision, namely, direct access to public sector official records for the purpose of carrying out statutory public defence tasks. In this way, the effectiveness of state defence will be enhanced. In addition, the work of state defenders, state defence co-workers and, of course, other public sector actors will also be strained with regard to the transmission of the data required by the state defence authorities in their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u84	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the committee president, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u85	The Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice also considered the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Defence at its 38th urgent meeting. The law was submitted for consideration by the Government. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. In his introductory explanation, the representative said that his primary purpose was to comply in particular with the Constitutional Court's decision on the salary system of officials and with the proposed amendment of the system law on public sector wages. He also participated and participated in the debate by the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. This drew attention to the need to harmonise Article 15 in terms of deleting part of the text. This comment was also taken into account and adopted by the Committee in the form of a proposal for an amendment to the Committee. The bill, as it is said, adopted this proposal for the amendment of the Committee and also the amendment tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. The members also adopted the remaining articles of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u86	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, would you like to speak on behalf of the New Slovenia Group? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u87	Thank you. I'll tell you for a moment, too, because apparently the other speakers have checked out. So in the parliamentary group, we support amendments to the Law on State Defence. It refers to the abolition of non-compliance with the Constitution with regard to the system of payment arrangements. The provisions of the proposed law are essentially of a permissive nature, as they travel to the amended Wage System Act. We support the solutions provided for by the law, including the establishment of wage classes, also by establishing direct access of the defence to the data in the computerised records of courts, registries and other official records, as well as other innovations brought by this law. So that our parliamentary group will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u88	Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u89	Your Honor! The latest amendment to the Public Sector Wages Act will provide comparable and uniform treatment of salaries of state lawyers and, of course, of all other justice officials. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Defence thus regulates only fundamental issues or fundamental rights, which form the basis for more detailed regulation in the Law on the System of Wages. Actually, there's not much to discuss here. The only other more substantive amendment to the proposed novel is a clearly defined equality of the starting salary class for the state's defence attorney or state attorney's assistant with the starting pay grade for individual judges. In this way, the starting payment class for national lawyers shall be governed in a comparable manner, in particular in the light of the responsibilities and tasks. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u90	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 13th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the state prosecutor's law. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Marolt, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the National Assembly for consideration a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutions, amending or supplementing, following an urgent procedure, a smaller number of provisions of the Law on Public Prosecutions, the amendment of which is necessary in order to allow wage reform in the field of the State Prosecutor's Office, as proposed in the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Wage System, to work in the field of civil prosecutors. The bill is linked to the proposed amendment of the Law on Judicial Service and the amendment of the Law on State Defence to the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Wage System. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office are mostly referrals. They travel to the application of the provisions of the Public Sector Wages Act or, depending on the specificity of the State Prosecutor's Office, regulate certain institutes, such as on-calls, preparedness for which specific supplements will be developed in the Public Sector Wage System Act. In addition, the draft law also takes into account the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which annulled part of the salary reform in the field of the State Prosecutor's Office on 7 December last year. The three amendments contained in the bill are not seriously linked to salary reform. For example, the amendment that the prosecution staff, i.e. the public servants of prosecutors, are included in the system of personnel records and not personal records, as is the case with the officials, so that no longer will the specific arrangements for the systemisation of the posts of state prosecutors and state prosecutors' assistants be introduced, but a normal regime of the personnel plan, as is the case with the public sector, under the Law on Public Servants, will be introduced. The following amendment concerns the direct access of public prosecutors to computerised official records and other databases of public authorities. These changes are not of a systemic nature. However, they represent minor additions to the law. Here I would only explain that, with regard to the direct access of the Public Prosecutor's Office to official records and other databases of the public sector, it is important to stress that this will also further increase the efficiency of the State Prosecutor's Office and the administrative burden on employees and data managers in the public sector. For example, direct access to criminal records, records of closed persons and any other records maintained in the public sector will be made available to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u92	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the committee president, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u93	Thank you. This will also be the final report in the context of the amendments and amendments to the law that we discussed at our 38th emergency meeting. The representative also made a supplementary explanation in the proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutions, in which he stressed that the proposal for a law was being amended or complemented in particular with regard to a small number of provisions, the amendment of which was necessary in order to allow for a wage reform in the field of the State Prosecutor's Office, as proposed in the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector System of Wages, to work in the field of the State Prosecutor's Office or in the State Prosecutor's Office. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the written opinion of this service. Ms Brezigar, the Attorney-General of State, also took part in the sitting itself, but she pointed out in particular an article that was not being dealt with this time. She pointed out that the amendment to the Law on Judicial Service in Article 74 provided for an amendment that said that the judicial service by law would cease the judicial service by retirement, but not later than 70 years of age, but that the judicial function did not, and that the prosecutors also proposed that this should be regulated in their future law in the same way as in the Judicial Service Act. Members and members of the committee did not discuss the draft law. However, one amendment was adopted by the coalition parliamentary groups. At the end of the day, all the proposed articles of the law together, and the Committee also invites this respected assembly to adopt them.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u94	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Dimitrij Kovačič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the Ministry. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group supports the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. The reasons for this are similar to those of the Judicial Service Act concerning compliance with the Constitutional Court decision. Since a system regulation is in place in the field of salaries of officials, which also includes the regulation of the salaries of state prosecutors. We therefore feel that systematisation within individual state prosecutors will no longer be subject to the law of the State Prosecutor's Office, but to the general rules applicable to public servants. Even in the area of the State Prosecutor's Office, despite ensuring the independence of individual prosecutors in their work, it is necessary to strive for the greatest possible efficiency and effectiveness, while the Head of the Prosecutor's Office may play a very important role. However, the Attorney General or the Prosecutor General is the Supreme Leader, who directs the work of the entire prosecutor's apparatus. It is therefore very appropriate that the amendment of the law systematically prescribes the competence of the Attorney General or the Prosecutor-General, who decides on all additives for the Heads of State Prosecutors. This also underlines the responsibility of individual heads of district and higher prosecutions, and of course also of the Attorney General himself or of the Prosecutor General. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party expect that, in the light of the legislative changes already in place and other measures taken by the judiciary, as well as within the Office of the Prosecutor, the proposed amendment of the law will represent a small step towards making the work of prosecutors more effective in our country. That is why we will also support the law under consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u96	Thank you. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u97	Thank you very much. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u98	Thank you for such a brief and clear explanation. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u99	Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The drafting of the amendment to the Public Prosecutor's Act is also a result of a decision of the Constitutional Court relating to the new wage system in the public sector. The amendment of the law is therefore necessary to ensure the implementation of wage reform or to ensure the enforcement of amendments to the Public Sector Wage System Act, which we have also discussed today. The proposed law contains only a few articles. These are articles of accommodating nature, as the Public Sector Wages Act also applies to state prosecutors, which also clearly regulates the salaries of prosecutors. The proposed amendment deals in particular with the field of duty as a specific form of work by which the Attorney General directs the pre-trial procedure and other urgent actions under the Criminal Procedure Act and other laws. Similarly, the law regulates the willingness of the State Prosecutor. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have no comments on the proposed amendment and we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u100	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Period of the day - another defense proposal for a law on scholarship. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Since the representative of the government is not yet in the hall due to the very rapid meeting, I am adjourning the meeting in five minutes to join us. We'll continue the meeting at 12.23 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u101	Dear Members! We're continuing our session. In the meantime, we were joined by Mrs Marjeta Cotman, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. And, of course, as a representative of the Government, he has the floor to further explain the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The scope of the scholarship has so far been regulated only in a few articles of the Employment and Insurance Act in the case of unemployment. This is the first time the system of scholarships is regulated in a separate law. An instrument allowing the acquisition of a state scholarship, the term "republic scholarship" is replaced by "public scholarship", is an entry price which depends on the income of the grantor to the family member in relation to the minimum wage. We propose to raise the price by 130% of the gross guaranteed wage on the extended 60% of the minimum wage per family member. The current method of calculating income per family member shall take into account all gross income and the proposed changes shall take account of net income per family member. This amendment allows 10,000 new scholarships. The amounts of scholarships and scholarships will increase, but selectively, depending on the objectives to be achieved. Thus, the state scholarship for students and students will rise by 11%, by 22% compared to the current amount of the state grant, by the highest income in the family, by 21.7%, the education allowance will increase. The draft law provides that, at the first stage of the State grant, social work centres will decide which in their computer bases have most of the data on scholarships and their families already in the child allowance process. Some criteria for obtaining Zois' scholarship are abandoned in the bill and learning or study success is maintained. In addition to success, the positive opinion of the teaching council and the school advisory service are important, and students are ranked among the best few percent in their generation. Regardless of success, a new criterion for outstanding achievements is also introduced. In this regard, it should be emphasized that Zois' scholarship for students and students who are also socially weaker will be increased. According to the bill, Zois's scholarship will also include an allowance based on the income of a family member, which we do not have under the current system. A supplement for the type and field of education has also been re-established, allowing for employability in the light of the needs of the economy and the market, which has not yet been introduced. The bill allows co-financing of staff scholarships granted by employers and holders of regional scholarship schemes or local communities, municipalities. This will affect the harmonisation of the supply and demand for staff of individual regions and the reduction of structural unemployment. Companies will be more encouraged for human resources scholarships and planning in the region and trained staff will return from university centres to the region. The bill also introduces a summary map, the bill also introduces a new award to contribute to the sustainable development of a society of 500 to 5,000 euros to a student or a student who will contribute with exceptional achievements to the sustainable development of society in the economic, social and environmental fields. Funding for State grants, Zois scholarships and co-financing of staff scholarships and awards to contribute to the sustainable development of the company is provided by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Zois' scholarships are paid out of the fund, for co-financing of staff scholarships from the state budget are provided through the Fund for the Development of Human Resources and the grant of the European Social Fund. The Fund will benefit from concession fees under the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act from the European Social Fund, the income from the management of the fund's free money and other resources. This is the first system law in the field of scholarships, which will increase the number of recipients of scholarships and thus enable more young people, including socially weaker families, to study, reduce the scope of work through student services, and thus allow for a faster completion of studies and early entry into work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u103	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. And you received the report in writing. This is followed by a shift in the positions of the members of the groups. Ms Maria Possonec will present the position of the Group of National Communities. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! The grant has so far been regulated only in Article 6 of the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act and in the Regulation on the grant issued on its basis. However, a sub-legislative act cannot regulate all the decommissioned system of scholarships because it is subject to legal regulation. The implementation of the system of scholarships and other aid intended for scholarships is so imprecise as it is regulated by different rules. As a result, he is administratively and institutionally fragmented and consequently expensive. The proposal for a new law on scholarships covers the net revenue taken into account, and the total income of the family and family members taken into account in the calculation shall be governed by the findings of the Government Working Group for the Preparation of Reforms of Social Transfers and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Development Service. The bill also provides for a significantly greater involvement of students and students in the scholarship system. In Slovenia, the total number of students and students has almost doubled in the last 15 years and the number of scholarships fell from 68.979 to 60.578 in the same period. In order to change this unpleasant relationship, an increase in the entry price is needed to obtain a Republic grant. The bill provides education for a large number of poorer students and students, as well as co-financing of staff scholarships granted by employers and holders of regional scholarship schemes. The bill also provides for the transformation of Zois' scholarships and therefore leaves some criteria for obtaining Zois' scholarships, such as intellectual talent testing, while the entry criteria are maintained by learning or study success. In addition to its success, it introduces a positive opinion of the teaching choir and the school advisory service for students, while for students it introduces the best few percent of the students in its generation. Regardless of success, a new criterion is introduced for outstanding achievements in a particular area of social life, both for students and students, who must be shown every two years. The proposed solutions are in line with the economic and social reform framework adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, stressing the need to co-finance staff scholarships and to increase the co-financing of regional scholarship schemes by the State, to examine the transformation of Zois scholarships and to implement them as a scholarship for the award of study and study achievements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u105	Thank you. Ms Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u106	Nice greetings to the secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are aware that it is the job of the young to take care of these young people as much as possible in order to enable them to achieve the desired education, thereby ensuring employment and competitiveness in the labour market. It is therefore necessary for the entire school system to respond to the needs of society, in particular the economy, and to ensure mutual cooperation between educational and scientific institutions, public institutions and the economy. The framework for economic and social reforms, which highlights the need to co-finance human resources scholarships, to increase co-financing of regional scholarship schemes by the State and other measures, has set out guidelines for the area of scholarships and also the grant law that we are considering today. This area has so far been regulated in various documents, various laws and regulations, and such a system has been untransparent and fragmented. Therefore, in our view, it is high time that we were given a law that will address this sensitive and very important issue systematically. And what does the law on scholarship bring? So far, applicants have submitted applications for the grant to employment institutions, and this is now being transferred to social work centres, since they already have the documents or most of the data required at the centres in their databases to decide on the child supplement and to decide on the grant and the amount of the grant. This means rationalising and appreciating a part of the country, but it is also an appreciation for users who will not have to invest twice and carry different documents at two ends. Such a regulated system also facilitates the exercise of control over the allocation and planning of funds. The new law also brings a larger number of scholarships. Despite the increase in the number of students and students, we have witnessed a steady decline in the number of scholarships, which is drastic in the field of human resources scholarships, which provide the only real link between education and the economy and also follow trends in the labour market, which consequently also means greater employment or youth unemployment. In order to provide more scholarships, an additional 7,000 scholarships, the bill contains a new way of determining the entry price. So far, this censorship has been linked to the guaranteed salary and has represented a exclusion criterion that has prevented some students and students from receiving scholarships from socially weak families. The increase in the entry price to 60% of the minimum wage will also affect the increase in the number of scholarships in poorer families, while a more pronounced increase in the supplement according to the income of the scholarship family is also proposed. In the debate at the meeting of the Committee, it was also proposed by the Student Organisation of Slovenia to set two different entry prices, basic and higher for those who are studying outside the home country. It should be noted that we had similar arrangements years ago, and it was definitively eliminated in 1998 when the censorship was evenled for all candidates, irrespective of the place of education, and this difference was settled with other supplements, i.e. for distance from the place of study, subsidies in student homes and so on. The law will raise the republic by 11%, and then the state scholarship. By 22%, the state grant will increase the highest supplement according to family income, which also means higher scholarships for the poorer. The education allowance will increase by 21.7%. The interest of employers in the allocation of staff scholarships has declined dramatically in recent years. Employers did not have the right economic incentives to opt for human resources scholarships, now this is changing as 50% will be co-financed by the state. This will certainly have a positive impact on the more equitable development of the regions, as well as the return of students to the region after the completion of schooling, with the individual contributing with his/her knowledge to the reduction of development differences. We could only see a positive trend in Zois’ scholarships or scholarships for the gifted. Some criteria are abandoned here, such as intellectual aptitude testing, and learning or study success is maintained. The purpose of the scholarship is to increase staff scholarships, so it seems to us that the Student Organisation of Slovenia, more specifically its leadership and individuals, oppose the adoption of a law that will bring more scholarships, bring up scholarships and provide better conditions for study and study. In our parliamentary group, we will support the grant law along with the coalition amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u107	Thank you. Ma'am mag. Majda Potter will present the views of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The Social Democrats' Group will support the law on scholarships, but of course we would also like the proposed three amendments to be supported, regardless of the fact that only one of the proposals comes from coalition types. Why are we expecting this? After a meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, it became clear that the law did not enjoy support in the form in which it was submitted, including by the Student Organisation of Slovenia. This pointed out that the November agreement and the proposal for a law were essentially different from what is now the subject of adoption in the National Assembly. If we listen to the students, they believe that, in the context of the 7th regular meeting of the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, they have aligned the law on student issues with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me draw attention to this, otherwise a banal fact, but nevertheless; the current proposal had 95 articles, and the current proposal has 74. I am not saying that this text did not give rise to a more precise dictatorship, but it is a purely statistical information that the text has been changed. Students point out that two provisions in the law are particularly controversial. The first is the one which relates to the amount of income included in the family base on which the eligibility for a new State grant is determined. The harmonised version envisaged that the family base included student work incomes reduced by a special relief provided by the Income Act and that the version we are considering covers these revenues in full. The second amendment is based on the conditions that Zois’s scholarshipist must achieve in order to maintain this scholarship. The opinion of the Student Organisation Slovenia is that if a student obtains Zois’ scholarship on the basis of a high average, this new average is 8.5 for a student, 4.1 for a high school student, and an average rating of 4.5 for entering Zois's scholarship is sufficient to maintain the scholarship in accordance with other conditions of law. And this is what the amendment of coalition parties now abolishes, otherwise maintaining control over compliance with the conditions and taking into account the alternative, it is said that there are no cumulative conditions. While we cannot say that the amendment of coalition parties in our opinion eliminates all weaknesses - this is the last indent of what will happen under this heading "excellent achievements", but nevertheless, the improvement is noticeable. It is that we Social Democrats, in the framework of partnership, have, however, been able to say some things in coordination and some warnings, some have also been taken into account, but not all, of course. We felt that Zois' scholarship could not be a social adjustment and that it must be linked to success and achievements. However, we are pleased that in our work there is an allowance for socially weaker students. It is also taken into account that it can later and more frequently enter the Zois scholarship system. We have proposed that Zois' scholarships be awarded by the scholarship fund and not by the social work centre. We also had comments on the age limit on the processing capacity; but, as has been said, some were taken into account, but not all of them. However, we believe that there is still a number of things left in the law that will be regulated by the Ministry by law or by special decisions or decrees, and we are not sure that such a solution is always good. Finally, let me say that the law itself will not bring more scholarships, and more resources will have to be provided to do so, and I hope that this will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u109	Mr Mitja Slavinec will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honors are here! During the formation, in the preparation phase of this law, we have been given the feeling that this is a modelly guided procedure, for a good procedure in the preparation of the law. An interested public was involved, student organisations were involved, the law was co-ordinated, including those who are already carrying out scholarship activities, and we were promised a good law. This, of course, also made us happy when we received the information that the law was also in line with the student organisations and those to whom the scholarships were intended. Unfortunately, then we saw that, in the final stage, when the law was passed in the procedure, the proposer introduced changes, corrections, such substantive nature and the importance that the law is no longer acceptable to the student organisation and that such a form of law is opposed. Therefore, amendments to certain Articles 13, 16, 24 were tabled. At the LDS Club, Members do not object to the general adoption of this law, but we support the amendments that have been tabled and which in some ways at least partially restore the law to the original, harmonised form and which at least partially ensure that those who need it will receive the scholarship and, on the other hand, those who deserve it most. We are talking about social scholarships on the one hand, state scholarships, or Zois scholarships. And that is why we place so much emphasis on the fact that the law will be in its original phase or that the harmonised version of the law will be brought closer to the adoption of the amendments tabled. For this reason, we support these amendments at the LDS, and in this way we also express our expectation that the applicant will react similarly. Why? See if the law has already been harmonised, if the law as such has been assessed as appropriate and if the law as such does provide scholarships, including a larger number of scholarships on the one hand, then it is pointless - perhaps out of fear that the funds will run out or what I know - to correct it in such a way that then, say, it strikes those who should not. So, for example, with the censorship of student work, it affects precisely those to whom this student work is needed from a social point of view and necessary for the study itself. And that the matter would be worse, it would also affect the family, that is, the brothers, the sisters, the whole family. And also this, of course, explains the legislator, i.e. the proposer, that it is a social transfer, that things are somehow trying to unify themselves with others, but here we see certain anomalies. And that makes it even more important for us to make the amendments of the law so that those who are initially entitled to the scholarships, on the one hand, are truly entitled to the scholarships that they deserve most and on the other hand the ones they need most. So, as it is said, the LDS Club does not oppose the adoption of the law, of course with the support of the amendments tabled to the above-mentioned articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister with a fellow member, distinguished fellow Member and fellow Members! We have before us a new law on scholarships, a lot of work being put in, a lot of coordination. I can say that the New Slovenia Group has been constructively involved in this. The scholarships are the necessary measure to provide funding for the education of students and students from lower socio-economic status families, direct students and students to schools with deficits, which in the long run better aligns supply and demand between professions and affects the integration of work and study. Changes in scholarships are necessary because in Slovenia we meet with a long, less successful study, including high school dropouts. This is why young people get into employment too late, there are problems in finding employment, everything is for a certain period of time, which also affects the reduction of the possibility of young families being formed. It is therefore necessary: for the first time, a meaningful regulation of student diet; for the second time, a scholarship policy and other forms of financial stimulation, a study that will motivate students to take a responsible study to shorten their time - unfortunately one of the longest in Europe; for the third time, incentives and measures for faster entry into employment, there are also Slovenian young people at a disadvantage; for the fourth time, scholarships have to become an interconnector of students and economies; the number of these scholarships is too small in Slovenia; for the fifth time, the regulation of student work will not be a factor in reducing the performance of studies and unfair competition in the labour market; for the sixth time, during the study of acquiring practical skills. In this direction, the Government has adopted reforms that follow the above objectives and objectives of the Lisbon Strategy. One of these laws that implement the strategy is the law on scholarship. So far, the grant has been regulated, broken down by the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment, and this material has been regulated in more detail by the Grant Regulation. The bill under consideration today will systematically regulate the area of scholarships and the Ministry's aim is to increase the number of recipients of scholarships. Due to the changed way transfers are accounted for, the price for obtaining a state grant that will replace the Republics is also tied to the minimum wage and no longer to the guaranteed salary. An ambitious plan to make scholarships more accessible to a wider range of students and students requires that censorship be changed from the current 130% gross guaranteed salary to the family member to 60% gross minimum wage. This would increase the number of scholarships by about 10,000. The country wants mainly to stimulate the socially weak and make it easier for them to get an education. The funds are increasing by more than €21 million, allowing us to reject all student findings so that the state can abolish their scholarships. The bill below regulates Zois' scholarships for gifted students and students who have an average success or achieve outstanding achievements in a particular area of social life. They're going to be showing achievements every year, just like they were before. In addition to State and Zois's scholarships, we expect to see an increase in the number of staff scholarships, the number of which decreased dramatically since 1990 from the more than 30,000 recipients in the fights of 7,000 recipients in 2004. Staff scholarships are intended primarily to establish an early link between the employer and the grantor for the transfer of new skills and technologies, and ultimately employers will make it easier to employ people with whom they already have previous experience and who are already in the process of working. The bill provides for indirect co-financing of staff scholarships, and we expect that, in addition to other positive effects, this will be sufficient stimulation for more employers to decide on this form of scholarship. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the Act is going in the right direction and that all of the new measures listed will increase the number of scholarships. Material care for survival will be reduced so that students and students will be able to devote themselves to study obligations. The law says hello. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Members, Members of Parliament, distinguished students at the gallery! We do not have a transparent scholarship system in Slovenia. The scholarships are defined in the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment and set out in more detail the criteria for the acquisition of scholarships under the law, namely the Grant Regulation. Discussions about the need for a good and transparent scholarship system in Slovenia are already very old, so in the Slovenian People's Party Group we welcome the fact that today we have a law on scholarships, which is transparent and which aims to encourage the development of the scholarship system in Slovenia and to provide scholarships to all who need them. Before I say a few words about the law itself and its solutions, I would like to talk about the ideal scholarship system. The ideal scholarship system or, if I were still a bit wider, an ideal system of study, scholarships and all the accompanying measures would be the one to ensure quality and rapid study, to achieve quality education as soon as possible, many qualified young experts. Above all, the scholarship system should allow everyone to prove their abilities. The fact that someone comes from an underdeveloped part of Slovenia, far from the center, cannot and cannot be the reason for whether an individual will study or not. The goal must be that each person can develop his or her potential, as this is also the best thing for the country and society. It would therefore be ideal for everyone to be able to study, of course, according to his or her abilities, and to study and work at the scheduled time. The current situation as a result of the extension of years of study, both in terms of lost opportunities and in terms of costs of the state and individual, is unsustainable. Studies need to be made possible, and unwarranted non-study of students must, clearly, be sanctioned. The proposed law is designed to make the study as accessible as possible to young individuals and individuals. In particular, measures to increase the number of staff scholarships are welcome, as this is an area that is now very underdeveloped in Slovenia. It can also make a significant contribution to better decision-making for young people to choose a profession through appropriate human resources scholarships. The availability of a large number of scholarships in a given area would be a clear sign that many new experts are needed in some area and that there are promising professions. In addition, human resources scholarships are also interesting in terms of providing training and guarantees for future employment, and in this respect an important element of safety for young students or students. In human resources scholarships we see many opportunities for the harmonious development of individual areas from Slovenia. The granting of these scholarships through regional scholarship schemes will contribute to the coordination of interests between the local economy or employers, the state and the scholarships. A particularly important feature of staff scholarships is that staff from the centres will return to the region they come from and start working there and thus contribute to the development of their home region. This will certainly be an important step towards a more even development of Slovenia. Of course, the law itself does not guarantee that. In particular, it will be necessary to ensure that the possibilities offered by the new law on scholarships are adequately promoted. This will need to be brought to the attention of both local communities and employers and others. A coordinated approach will be needed and the role of the competent ministry will have to be played here. The proposed law, according to our belief, perfectly regulates both the staff and Zois scholarships or scholarships for the gifted. In support of the proposal for a grant law, the applicant stated that on the basis of [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] A new censorship is expected to increase the number of state scholarships by around 10,000. [[...]] With regard to this increase in the number of scholarships, certain concerns have been raised in the debate so far, particularly in relation to the consideration of incomes on the basis of which the censorship for the acquisition of a state grant is calculated. Given that the proposed law aims to increase the number of scholarships, emphasis should be placed on [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] We certainly expect an increase in line with the proposaler's forecasts. [[...]] In the absence of such an increase, an immediate amendment to the law will be necessary. In this regard, we have also tabled amendments to the Group of Members, which are more important in the discussion of amendments. Let me conclude by saying that we support the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group and that we expect concrete activities after its adoption to bring the law to life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u115	Thank you. Ms Majda Shirca will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u116	Thank you. Nice greetings to all present. In Slovenia there is a beautiful river about Slovenia, which is supposed to land at the top, at the lighthouse of the world. This path we know leads through knowledge, knowledge leads through learning, learning leads through as much solidarity as possible and through the best possible conditions for learning. And we're in front of a marriage that I'm sorry that it's not in line in the way that it's supposed to be or that we want it to be. Finally, it grieves us that, if I may say so, there has been a short contact with the users, as a second text has been submitted after coordination. It is no wonder, therefore, that the Minister received another last visit yesterday, the last attempt and allow me to highlight the reasons why she would have listened to the students' comments the last time. The students asked her how the cost of living would be, say, 400 euros a month, covered by a fellow who received 200 euros in scholarships and would not be allowed to perform his student work because he would exceed the price and lose his scholarship. I am speaking, of course, of the fundamental and open amendments and of us also of the problematic parts of the law. The students asked her, asked the Minister whether it seemed fair to her that, in order to carry out her brother's or sister's studies, a student or student would go beyond censorship and thereby lose his right to a scholarship, a scholarship. And students and students asked her if she was aware that a student and a student who was not at the university centre had a much higher cost, which would be necessary and fair to take into account in the grant of scholarships. And here are the main cuts, the main openings of this law, for which I hope that we will meet in a positive light in the debate and correct these open dilemmas of the law, which, of course, will also decide whether or not to vote within our parliamentary group. Let me stress that paragraphs 24 and 48, I hope and assume that it will be remedied, at least partly according to the amendments, also ours or coalitions, which have also arisen after the debate on the Committee. But let me stress again; students and students who live outside of the study place certainly have, according to students and students who reside in the study place, higher costs, we all know that, and their material position can be comparable, it is usually comparable. In this case, it will be much more difficult to provide access to studies for those students and students residing outside their place of residence, as they may slightly exceed the price for obtaining a state grant and, on the other hand, automatically lose the transportation and residence allowances provided by the State grant in case they have marginally reduced income. And given the fact that the main objectives of the law on scholarships are to increase the number of scholarships and reduce the volume of student work, we believe that the current text of the law will have the opposite effect, in short, to reduce the number of scholarships, and that a vicious circle that will not lead to the acquisition of scholarships will be very, very dangerous. Moreover, the projection of the number of new state scholarships carried out in the course of the preparation of the law by the Institute of Economic Research has counted among the family incomes income from student work reduced to relief, not entirely as provided for by law. So such a law in practice will not bring additional scholarships, and if there is a problem, that is exactly what it is. Once again, for other reasons, in view of the developments in the adoption of these amendments, our decision to support the law will also be appropriate to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u117	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, colleagues and guests on the balcony and at home in front of the receivers. I will begin with the words he wanted to instill in our heads yesterday, Prime Minister Janez Janša. The professional public is imaginary, so the law is really harmonised. However, if we look at the decomposition of events on 16.11.2006, the law has been truly coordinated, including with the professional public, or if you want, with those who are in fact the most interested in the quality of the law, the quality of the law and the fact that it is actually pursuing its objectives, it is indeed following the objectives set out in the explanation of the law itself. But unfortunately it happened later, I will say, following the example already seen in this mandate, when the original harmonised law changed after it came to the National Assembly past the professional, past the public concerned. Last but not least, I received at least five versions of the Grant Act within a few days of e-mail. Every new version said "new," "last version." I ask who, after the law was already harmonised, changed the law. I would like to get an answer, because Mr Drobnič, representative of the Labour Market and Employment Directorate, on the working body, said that the law is still harmonised and harmonised in all essential elements. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, this is not the case. Last but not least, many amendments have been made to my words, which have been tabled by the opposition, as well as by the coalition representative, and last but not least, in today's meeting, we have several key amendments that change the uncoordinated law into content, which would actually pursue the objectives of the law. The fact is that the Law on Scholarship is one of the most important laws for both students and students. Especially when we are talking about republican or social scholarships or, if you want, according to the new so-called state scholarships, it should be stressed that this is an important aid to an individual or his family. So it's a scholarship, I don't know if you want, maybe some kind of social adjustment or, on the other hand, an important incentive for a student to be educated as regularly as possible. Well, the fact is, and this has shown the time that the existing system needs certain corrections. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to prepare a system law in this area completely new. This was also why the coordination was so long-term and so important. I will say that, while basically commending the efforts of the new Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, who has found so much consensus or obedience in reaching consensus with the most competent in this area. However, as has already been said, marriage is inconsistent and therefore marriage is not good at key moments. I will not talk about all the good things that the law brings, as we have heard not least from the words of the Minister, but also from the coalition representatives: that the law is special and that it will actually allow 7,000 new scholarships, that the height of the scholarships will be increased. I would like to ask you, dear colleagues and colleagues, who in this national council today knows what the new height will be, the average amount of the scholarship. This data is not available because no calculations have been made. And as we heard earlier, even the projections that were made are, hand to heart, because of an unconformed marriage. In the Slovenian National Party, we have already tabled several amendments at the meeting of the parent working body, which have not been adopted after the established practice of the government coalition. A few important amendments are awaiting reception today at this meeting of the National Assembly. If the amendments are adopted, we will approach the support of the law in the Slovenian National Party, otherwise we will not give support to this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u119	Thank you. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u120	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleague and colleague! The current system of scholarships and other assistance aimed at students and students is clearly inexcusable, in our opinion too fragmented and poorly standardised, since this area is regulated by only a few articles of the Employment and Insurance Act for unemployment and the Rules of Procedure, and therefore it is almost necessary and extreme time for this matter to be fully regulated in the roof law. Moreover, the current regulation does not follow an increasing number of students and falls into the number of human scholarships, as employers are increasingly less excited to invest in such human resources. The area of scholarship is also of great importance because scholarship is often the only option for students or students to continue their studies. The solutions proposed in this bill, such as the increase in the number of scholarships on the basis of a new entry price, which depends on the income of the grantor to the family member, relative to the minimum wage, the stimulation of the socially weaker youth for higher income-based scholarship studies, the incentives for the promotion of the allocation of scholarships, in particular through co-financing of these and others, will, in our opinion, help to address problems related to the lack of scholarships, as well as to the increased accessibility of the study and consequently to reduce the scope of the student work. In doing so, we do not object to student work in general in the parliamentary group, because they are gathering the necessary experience at work alone and can only benefit from the study they are doing regularly. At the same time, students must be aware that it is their primary responsibility and responsibility to meet their study obligations on a regular basis. Despite the principle of support for the proposed law, Members of the DeSUS do not agree with the proposal of the proposer to take account of all these incomes in the calculation of the income of the family member, as many students and students would exceed the price for state scholarships on the basis of such a methodology, which is contrary to the objective of the proposed law, i.e. an increase in the number of scholarships and the stimulation of socially weaker children for education and studies. In fact, we think of that not so thin layer of those who for small money would be overpriced and thus lost the opportunity to obtain a state grant. According to the applicant, the calculation should take into account all the receipts of pupils and students received through authorised organisations or employers, which, on the basis of the concession contract, provide occasional and temporary work and take into account the child allowance. We estimate that the classification of these benefits is controversial and that income should be taken into account in such a way that it is taken into account at the level that they exceed the individual's tax relief, i.e. EUR 2,800, as laid down by the Income Act. We will therefore support this amendment, which solves this issue, as well as those two that we have signed as coalition amendments, so that this law, then duly improved, can be fully supported without bad conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u121	Thank you. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 18.6.2007. I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. The application for debate on Article 13 and the amendment shall be pending. Mr. Janc, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, secretary with colleagues, colleagues, students. I have heard the introductory presentations of the parliamentary groups on the law in general, which is essentially supported by everyone in some way. This seems to me like a good trip to today's debate to the amendments that have begun, which we want in some way also in this law, which, in my opinion, is good, positive, gives certain concrete measures after we have spoken when we fixed the so-called work for the students, and say: the state must do something more. This is due to this story, because the government has decided to prepare some innovation, especially in the spirit of how it can provide more scholarships, how it can provide more fair access to these scholarships for students and students, how it can poorer layers; families, students and students can afford more resources for equivalent education, etc. We talk a lot about human resources scholarships in Slovenia, but unfortunately statistics here are very ployal. The declines are large, staff scholarships are in fact very few available, but if they are, unfortunately there are also data that show that there is no real demand for them. Let me talk about the case where I'm talking about this Article 13 and then I'll move on. A relatively large number of scholarships are available today, and under good conditions available to the employer, such as state aid, the local community is unfortunately not responding. This is also a question - why is there no response? Obviously, it is not a current issue: Or: if there are staff scholarships available, there are no candidates or candidates for the future in the current period of entrepreneurship. This is what I have in mind when we have the so-called Posav scholarship scheme, where we bring together one-third of the municipalities, the country one-third of the money, and the employer only one-third of the money, but also those incentives given by the municipality and the state, students and employers, unfortunately, do not exploit. It's an interesting thing when we talk about scholarship law. I hope that in the future something will be better, that there will be more motivation on the one hand and on the other hand to take advantage of this opportunity offered by the State and the congregation in this story. Then I'd like to refer to Article 13, which is in the debate. In the Slovenian People's Party we claim and we are sure and it will be difficult for someone to convince me otherwise that being a student from Sevnica or Ljubljana is the same - a student at the place of education in Ljubljana or Maribor. Definitely! I tried it myself in the past, and there were significantly fewer conditions than there are for students today, and thank God it's the way it is. This 13th Article is perfectly clear and pure in the spirit of how can I offer the student from Sevnica and Ljubljana approximately equal terms, the blacks here will not be the same conditions. Believe me, even if we do - and I hope that we will - this amendment of ours will still be supported - a privileged student living in Ljubljana, the surroundings of Ljubljana, as well as a student living in Sevnica, White Krajina, Prekmurje or elsewhere. With this, we could correct this matter and also give those students and students, students coming from other backgrounds of Slovenia the opportunity to participate equally in this scholarship case if both students who receive the scholarship can also be placed equally. In the event that the student is not received, one and the other also falls out of the transport procedure and other additions to the stay. So, again, it's the damage of a student coming out of the Ljubljana region, as I said, from Sevnica. Therefore, it would be right and fair and right when we talk about some more coherent regional development, balanced Slovenia, Slovenia equal conditions, accessible to all for this or that, then let us also take into account these criteria, which I think are sufficiently tangible, clear that students from all over Slovenia also have about the same conditions for entering any college as students in high school. Therefore, it would be difficult to find these true arguments that this thing is not compatible, that it is not appropriate and that it is not true. Let someone tell me and confirm that the costs of the students in Ljubljana are the same as those of the student from Sevnica. They're not, and they never will be! This, in part, reduces these stories and brings us closer to the more equivalent position of a student from one region and another to the place of education, wherever the school - Ljubljana, Maribor and so on. Therefore, Madam Minister, I propose and I hope that you will confirm in your debate why this amendment of ours may not have been acceptable to Article 13, which, in my opinion, gives what we discussed at the time of the scholarship work, when we had such and different comments, as if it were the first and main task of students to study but not to work. I also agree with this that the basic mission of a student is to study. But if there's not enough "flower" in your pocket, you have to work. It was, it was, and it certainly will be. But here I now think that the country is following this goal, that it is trying to offer more out of a bag of state money to students. Let us do this even more honestly and equally to all students, wherever they live in Slovenia, to the place of education wherever they choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! That's a good-bye. The Slovenian People's Party proposal actually sounds kind of like it. Unfortunately, I have to say that somehow there is a distinction between the censorship between those who study at the study site and those who study outside the study site. Why? Because students are anyway getting supplements that their place of study is outside their home place, both for stay and for transport to the place of study. In Article 30, these supplements are based on the basic grant, on the basic state grant of €54, for a stay of €79 and for transport in suburban or cross-border transport of €93. In fact, because of these supplements, in some ways it would be unconstitutional because those students who would be subject to higher censorship under this amendment would receive both the supplements and the higher censorship - it is said, the level of eligibility for the grant. Given that there is virtually no opposition to the law itself, the amendments are intended to further improve the position of students. In this case, the matter is somewhat inconsistent - I will not be able to support this amendment. I am more inclined to look at the opinions that have also been given in the debate and, in fact, I would expect them in the first place from the students, i.e. that the investment of the state and businesses in their studies would be more effective. How do you do that? It is simple that a scholarship of one kind, if I can simplify, is paid in advance and certain obligations, in this case, have to be met. However, if the obligations are not met, this advance payment must be repaid at least to some extent because the work has not been done. I think that, given that the government and the ministry are significantly improving the current system of scholarships, after all, there is no longer a basis for censorship provided, but the minimum wage is that scholarships are also increasing and the range of beneficiaries is expanding, the number of students that, in agreement with students in particular, as well as taxpayers, especially with the economy, will have to move to a more motivated mode of scholarship. The scholarship, in this case with grant scholarships covering all the costs of the study but, of course, require the fulfilment of the study conditions, would then eliminate all these additional proposals and the desire to further increase the various supplements and possibly the different treatments. This would also ensure that all students, regardless of their conditions, of course also take into account social status, have sufficient resources to complete their studies at a minimum, optimal time and become, as once said, a useful member of our society, into the business world and start their business and work career. For these reasons, I do not think this amendment is appropriate for us to accept it. However, the government, probably for the next term, has to think about what is essential, as I said, to change the way the scholarship is granted. I must also reject the obvious that the amendment of the law is not harmonised. Although it was coordinated and highly coordinated enough, it is not entirely because of the additional demands and wishes that came, unfortunately all could not be met. Thus, even though some amendments may not be confirmed, we can be happy with this law as well as students to have better opportunities to cover the costs of their study. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u125	Thank you. Mrs. Potrata, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Well, I mentioned that the drafting of the system law on scholarships is certainly useful, and the second question is whether we are satisfied with all the solutions in this bill. Article 13 lays down the conditions for obtaining a state grant. It is set to the entry price resulting from the minimum wage. I do not want to reopen the debate on how the minimum wage is fixed in Slovenia and how much it is, but it is a minimum wage and 60% of the minimum wage per family member for the entry price is not the amount that would unduly open the number of beneficiaries for the state grant. The whole new issue begins with whether additives can solve the issue of determining the entry price and the difference that the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party wants to open. We support this amendment because we believe that the supplements, as set out in Article 14, which refers to the level of the State grant and lists five different supplements that an individual can receive on this basic grant, are very problematic for us. Because of the fact that the number of additives works, however, is somewhat imprudent, we believe that the allowance for education outside of a permanent residence, if it includes transport costs, cannot replace the financial problem that arises if an individual does not study at his place of residence. This means a whole series of other benefits or emergency costs that arise if it does not live in the place. Now, look, the supplements for the type and area of education - so this is completely undefined, a supplement for the type and area of education. Currently, there is a trend in supporting nature and technology. What if it happens to us that we're going to notice something completely different in the middle of the deficient professions? How quickly can we respond to different market demands by means of a scholarship policy when it is known that an expert is formed for some time? I think that it has already been explained on the Committee that it would be much better to link this difference to the costs of the student, if he is studying at the place of residence and if he is outside the place of study, and to determine, as is the case here, by still leaving the proposed amendment, how will that range of 5% of the minimum salary to obtain a state grant, a sub-law act, be allocated. However, the fact that something will be left to the law is not exactly something that the Social Democrats would be satisfied with to the full, especially because, I stress, there are too many things that will be regulated by this law by a large number of sub-laws. Of course, this is due to lack of transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u127	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraeva.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. We have heard quite a few words from my colleagues about whether or not the law is harmonised. I already told the committee that when we visited students in our parliamentary group, we were assured that the law was harmonised. Four amendments have been brought to the discussion with us, two of them accepted and then confirmed by the committee, and two of them, in our opinion, were inadequate and one of them today is the amendment or proposal of the Slovenian People's Party, the amendment to Article 13. We will not support this amendment, even before I said that we already had such an arrangement, in 1991, and since then the difference has been between whether a student or a student is studying in a place of residence or not. This continued to change and to rise, so to speak, differently for those who also studied at the place of permanent residence and differently for those who are outside the place of permanent residence. In 1998, however, this was harmonised, if you look at the magnetogram in the debate on the Unemployment Insurance Act 1998. At the time, by the government representative - I think that at the time, Mr Rop was the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs - it was said that they estimate that the different entry price is unjustified, in short, that the distinction between students staying at the place of school and those driving or not at the place of school - should be the same. He also warned the Ombudsman that this censorship could not be different, but should be uniform for all students. Accordingly, the law has also been corrected in this regard. You have already mentioned that there are certain additives on the basis of which certain higher costs are recognised to those who study outside their place of residence. My colleague Tavsheva said earlier that we don't know how much a scholarship will cost. The amounts in the law are absolute and are determined, it is also determined how much the supplements will amount to, so that it will not hold. And perhaps just a word about the fact that there was an amendment-like amendment on the committee that was tabled at the time, that we had different entry censorship, a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service was asked, who explained that, or considered that this would introduce inequality, and he did not support or warn that the problems that I had already mentioned might arise. That way we won't support this amendment. We believe that things are properly arranged, so that the entry price for all is the same, and then for those driving from faraway places, this is regulated by additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! When we were at the board meeting, we could hear, and today it is also repeated, the interpretation of this. The fact is that the students on this committee made it clear to us that the content which was harmonised had been definitively changed when it came to the National Assembly. That was a fact we could hear there. I cannot comment on the facts of what has been happening in individual parliamentary groups, but the fact has been and it has been said there. Today we have the opportunity to correct certain content and the amendment to Article 13 represents this. I would like to draw attention to the fact that today it has been said that those students or students who live outside their country are entitled to individual supplements. One supplement is also linked to the fact that those who are outside the school place have the right to an increased amount. But the first condition has to be met, and that's a scholarship. That means if there's no scholarship, there's no extras. And the idea of this amendment is that a student coming from longer, or a student coming from a longer, outside the very place of education, will not be excused for this supplement if for very little value this limit price is exceeded 60%. And the idea of this amendment is to propose an interval of this censorship, conditions and criteria, of course, propose or write down the ministry responsible for the work. Well, the point of this amendment is that. And it is impossible to say that the principle of equality is respected if someone has a scholarship and gets an allowance, but someone who for one single part exceeds the censorship – living in the same place – has the same material basis for obtaining a scholarship while at the same time having no right to an allowance at a distance from the place of residence. That's the point of this amendment. The question is whether we in the National Assembly are prepared to accept this difference. Do we see the difference that the material status of a student, a student, I'm going to try to geographically compare, from the very city of study, right next to this institution, compared to someone who lives, say, 60, 70 kilometers away -- is the case the same? Surely we can agree that this is not the case here. And the question is whether in this way we will allow what we are always talking about: equal access to study. I don't think so. Here I would just like to remind you of the discussions and proposals made by the previous opposition SDS party, which proposed transport subsidies laws, for food subsidies, today, for example, so much that it forgets what was so desirable to propose at the time. We therefore propose an interval within which the criteria should be laid down in order to justify the eligibility of this additive. That's the point. Whether or not the number is increasing is not served by the Ministry with any figures on the committee itself. The representatives of the proposer say that there will be so many and so many scholarships. However, when I asked why the children's allowance was among the benefits and if excluded, what would be the difference in the number of recipients of scholarships, there was no answer. This means that there are no calculations that would then also confirm the amendment to Article 2 that will be discussed later. [[The ad in the hall.]] Comrade Petan, I think you'll get the word and you'll be able to comment on what I'm saying. So the idea of this amendment, I repeat, is that for those with similar material status and who do not live in the same area where they are educated, the interval is set. And this interval, in fact, allows you to obtain supplements for distance from the site of the study. And I think it makes sense for us to admit this difference. To acknowledge that to allow equal accessibility or equal access to study, we are also, of course, pursuing this goal, which we write as one of the fundamentals, so that those who study will return home to the environment from which they come. However, I wonder whether someone who comes to Ljubljana to study and is educated in difficult circumstances will have an interest in building his family in the environment and allowing or not allowing his or her children to have the same difficulty in accessing studies. I think that this objective within this content is closer to being achieved. It would therefore make sense for you to reconsider in the coalition the support of one of your coalition parties' amendments and thus to fulfil, to a significantly greater extent, the possibility of accessibility, accessibility to study under the same conditions for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u131	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 13 and this amendment? I'm reopening the application. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u132	Thank you. I'd like to make this a little more concrete with the numbers. I've said before that a minimum wage has been set for the determination of censorship. Do we even know what numbers we're talking about? If the minimum wage is SIT 125.052 or SIT 521 and 83 cents, that is SIT 75,000 and SIT 313 respectively. And if we look at 65 is 339 euros, for the show, that's 81 and a few thousand SITs. It is about 6,000 tolars or 26 euros, and this is the range that will be hunted by those who will run for state scholarship if they live or study in a place that will not be their place of residence at the same time. And that's essential. At the same time, at the promise of many higher schools, not even universities, I wonder what will happen to so many students' singing mobility. We will force those from socially less stimulating environments to study at those higher schools where they live. What this will mean for their careers, for their careers, is another question. What if there are some similar schools in one place? The questions that I have asked me about other things that are set out here in the law on scholarships, with those additions that some so praise. Of course the supplements are fixed! But the supplements are aimed at some individual group and for some specific purpose, but we reiterate what we have already stressed to those who support this amendment: the supplements can only come to the already awarded grant, and for that we need to get an opportunity and therefore we support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment is aimed at providing any student or student in the Republic of Slovenia with equal entry opportunities for education. In fact, this ambition lies in this. When they built the largest building in the Balkans 102 years ago, these are the Škof institutions in Shentvid, they were actually thinking the same thing. Any student, a primary student who continues to study, should not be hindered, but especially those with intellectual potential, so that socio-economic status fails to realize their talents, i.e. their mission. And of course not only that, but also the provision of quality study, intensive study, rational study and education - what is actually going on with us and is the goal of improving. In the beginning, my fellow Member stressed some of these objectives: long-term education, unequal opportunities, late inclusion of young people, the disconnection of schools and of course employers. The scholarship law is actually that mechanism, that measure that is supposed to achieve these objectives. And we need to ask ourselves, in view of these problems: at the outset, the longevity of the study, the incoherence of the study, the reduction of staff scholarships, the socio-economic status - whether they are appropriate or not, or whether we will reach this goal with this law, even specifically with this determination. That's the question. No, what the coalition thinks and what the opposition thinks. Maybe even, I'm going ahead - does everything that students suggest really achieve this full goal? Some of their suggestions - yes, others may not. And those proposals must also be submitted to us in order to achieve the right objectives. Of course, with these words, I am referring to that harmonised law on November 16th. He had instruments to achieve all these goals, and this is our responsibility, the responsibility of the so-called middle generation, of adults. Young people are motivated, passionate, elderly, and more mature, we must have appropriate wisdom and solutions. And these two can be combined into a good marriage. Yes, therefore, whether this amendment will bring - first of all, it is necessary to make it clear that this amendment sets a different entry criterion rather than an education allowance, the education allowances are set out in the second article. It is. Still, those who have this entry price, if the amendment had been adopted, do not mean an alternative or duplication, this only means that someone gets a scholarship that they would not otherwise have, and then would have received this supplement, which is a higher cost of living, a higher cost of living. These supplements are clearly put in place to ensure that any student or student, wherever he is, has approximately equal entry chances for the study, so that it would not be necessary to engage so intensively in the student work. Student work is very much in Slovenia, and student work is a factor in the fact that studies are not effective enough. Not only that! Student diet - we accepted, I stressed that these are changes. Or will these changes lead to a goal? We can measure them in one year. We will be able to measure them, and also in this law we will measure the result, including this provision. To be measured according to the entry criteria. So stimulation for that. These entry criteria, which are set as a socio-economic level, could, of course, be seriously affected by the fact that there would be a substantial number of human resources scholarships. That would put the burden somewhere else. But are incentives for human resources scholarships? Is that an instrument? Since he's gone, then everything is hung on to this criterion. Are scholarships a motivational factor in completing schooling early? Could there also be any additional measure that would oblige the grantor to return, in any case, at least one part, due to the failure of the study or to the poorer performance of the study - in the form of loans? Loans are clearly proven, even in the introduction of the law, that loans are those instruments that significantly improve the effectiveness of studies and reduce studies. And that's what I missed, and that's what I miss. These instruments. And all these instruments can lead to a good cause. For example, in Slovenia we would have as many scholarships as there are now national scholarships. So that we could have as many states now as there were in those golden times. And that any student would also have a choice of loan, because in the era of globalisation it is important to introduce such an instrument. For those with high incomes are not essential, and it is not important that they be granted a scholarship, for they can provide their own incomes to children; it does not prevent them from providing children with studies. But we can give them a choice of loan. That's it. That's actually the whole point of this amendment. A lot actually opens up a very big dilemma.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Janc. Excuse me, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u136	Your Honor! So I'm also personally assessing that this is a kind of amendment, which, according to my assessment, has multiple holes and mistakes. That's the first time. The proposal for a law contains the following supplements: an allowance based on the income of the scholarship family, for the type and field of education, for learning or academic success, for scholarships with special needs, and an allowance for education outside the residence. The additions and conditions are quite precisely defined. So we have this supplement for education outside of permanent residence already defined in the bill and it would probably be a duplication. A fellow who is educated outside the place of residence shall be entitled to a residence allowance of 79 euros, or to transport in suburban or inter-territorial transport at a distance of five kilometres and more to the place of education from the place of residence, amounting to a maximum of 93 euros, depending on the distance from the place of education, and to a subsidy for transport under other regulations. Moreover, there will always be comments that some are undercutting, whether the price is 60, 70, 80 or another percentage. Secondly, I would like to highlight the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. I quote: "This article refers to individual rights, to the individual's right to enter the scholarship. And here it is not a positive discrimination, but it could actually cause inequality in relation to the place of residence, creating equality of entry censorship for the right to a scholarship. Therefore, in the light of this principle and equality, this provision seems to be disputed." End of statement. At the same time, I agree with their statement that there are other ways of promoting regional diversity, cost recovery and so on. And the third time in terms of so-called positive discrimination. For example, the student organisation did not propose a similar solution to the amendment of the Student Food Subsidisation Act, where they could opt for income censorship or accessibility depending on distance from the place of education. I think it's the unconstant functioning of the student organization. Given all the above, I cannot support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u138	Thank you very much again for your word, Madam President. Look, it's such a simple thing, if you want to understand, it's not even popular, it's not populism, but it's just the right thing to do. Slovenia is a small country, but there are great differences between them. There are big differences, and I think my colleagues have said this very nicely and clearly before me. What is the point of this amendment? Some of you have gone a bit astray, not at all the essence of this amendment; the essence of the amendment is that for students and students who are studying outside their place of residence, depending on the distance, they would provide higher censorship, higher censorship. That's all it is. Not that you will be that, but some rights, and so on, a higher censorship for the one who lives in the White Land, or for the one who lives in Ljubljana. Skarje and canvas have a competent ministry that will determine on the basis of distance, I do not know, on the basis of the development of the regions, if you want, one or the other, it will determine the exact criteria for who, under what conditions, can. And now, if both students, students at the school place or outside the school place will not receive this scholarship, even such a large one, there will be a significantly worse situation for that student, a student who lives on the outskirts of our beautiful Slovenia. Is that fair? It's not fair, gentlemen, it's not fair! And the major difference is that student who has already made such a difficult decision gets a room in Ljubljana and so on, and no one asks you materially how. Our aim of society is to be educated, smart, good and to have a level playing field from all parts of Slovenia. That's the essence of this amendment, nothing else, nothing like it, nothing populism, no less rights or more. It's not true, it's just-- it's the same, it's simple! And if he wants to get along and this amendment is read well, it's easy for anyone to understand. And it's good because this Parliament, regardless of coalition, opposition and I don't know who - with this amendment, we want to make an even better law, which I initially praised: - it's good, it's positive, it brings news, it brings what we talked about in college work, where we are sometimes very critical and so on, that students work too much and so on. This law brings concrete positive things. And why not make this marriage even better, even more fair to all students and students in the Republic of Slovenia? That's the purpose of it. And if anyone can tell me that it's not that these mechanisms don't hold, that they don't apply, that the Law-Legal Service speaks to itself, yes, it may have some concerns, because it has many times in the past, and yet we've adopted those amendments and those laws, ladies and gentlemen. Let's be honest! After all, we are talking about young people, students, students, more support, more just support, equal accessibility, material conditions, students have difficult conditions and so on. Let's help! From words to deeds! Today's our chance to use those words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye! We've heard about the same entry options, about the likeness of this amendment, but let's see what this particular thing means. It is not about likeness, not at all, because the amendment has its solid foundations and in concrete cases also solves specific problems and provides not the same entry option, but equivalent entry options, fairer opportunities for students from different regions of Slovenia. Once again, the situation and possibilities across Slovenia are not the same and should therefore be taken into account. Similarly, we have a difference in the census for entry into student homes, and priority must be given to those who travel from faraway places to study. Some, for example, also endure more severe colds than others, making them more likely to smoke. It is also more objectively expensive for some students than others, so they should start to be assisted in the study first and be granted a scholarship first, i.e. under a milder condition. The difference is 5% exactly - roughly we will say, not exactly - as much as the return ticket from Murska Sobota to Ljubljana and back. If we round up a little bit, it's 300 euros that's 60%. Suppose now someone has 300 euros on average in Ljubljana and someone else has 320 in Murska Sobota. If at least once a month wants to move from place of residence to place of study and back, it has objective fixed costs of EUR 25 to make it easier to calculate what someone in Ljubljana does not have. At the start he'll have to pay, unlike the 25 euros, his costs for these 25 euros will be higher, and if we subtract that from the 320 we're at 295. In fact, we see that he is in a worse position than someone in Ljubljana with 300 euros, and that is exactly what this amendment contains. That is precisely what this amendment advocates, which corrects entry, which allows those entitled to aid, those entitled to the grant and, more importantly, those entitled to the distance allowance for these scholarships to receive the grant at all and then these allowances. One is the supplements that compensate for effectively more expensive studies, but it is necessary to allow those who are eligible to receive the supplements at all. Finally, I stress only that, in the second paragraph of this amendment, there is still a possibility for the Minister to rotate this range from 60% to 65% depending on the situation, given the economic possibilities, given the size of the budget, I am aware that this is probably the main limit, but also this range could be avoided by reducing these 65% on one side by two and a half, on the other hand, by two and a half if the economic problem or the extent of the resources available is the reason why some of you oppose it; but I emphasise that this correction remains and can be determined by a sub-law act on how to evaluate the distance of students from the place of the study. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Versnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! There's always a problem with restrictions. These limits are always for some too high, for others too low; in short, here I think we will find it difficult to find a common denominator where we will all be satisfied. There's always someone falling over that inconvenient criterion and that's always been, and that's always going to be, and any illusion to fix it for 5, for 2, for 3, I think, somewhere you have to set a limit. And the ministry has decided that the entry price is 60%, and whatever we are discussing now, it means that some may be disadvantaged, others may not - in short - this is a very, very relative issue. I am much more pleased to see that there is a great deal of emphasis on human resources scholarships and that those who have not come to this censorship will have the opportunity to look for staff scholarships, which I think are even more quality, because they allow continuous contact with companies, where they will also get employment, have the opportunity to work ahead, to do some casual work, and can also earn something for their studies; and that, most importantly, allows them to eventually have a place to go to work and continue their careers. As far as these dilemmas are concerned, I wouldn't particularly stop. Borders are always a problem, and they'll always be. In general, I think that the law is good and that it leads in the right direction to ensure that students study, but not work and care for their financial assets. Their primary task is to study as soon as possible and to engage in society with their education and opportunities. I cannot say that this 13th article is not acceptable, it is acceptable, but somewhere it must be said: there is a limit, and here we just have to deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u143	Thank you. Mrs. Squire Tavsh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to say or replicate, however you want, to those who haven't understood - what we've heard a few times, and I'm going to say, very precisely, in capital letters, in a parable, I'm saying written words that are easier to read, what this amendment means. You know, there's justice in censorship, and there's justice in scholarships. Number one and number two. And when marriage is read, it is necessary to read the law in its entirety, all 71 articles. And this amendment is undoubtedly one step further towards greater fairness in censorship. And I say, I was a student myself, because of a few tolars, I lost a social scholarship, a republican scholarship, I was driving and the costs or expenses of my family were significantly higher than those of someone who lives, stays and studies in Ljubljana. That is why I say that if we talk, if we have the opportunity to create a more quality and fairer law to confirm this amendment today. I am sure that none of you, honourable coalition Members, will oppose this amendment so explicitly, even though I believe you do not know why you will not be hurt by your heart or your head if you say yes to the amendment. And maybe only those who operate with expressions like absolute numbers. First, we need to understand what an absolute number means and what the figures that are actually written black on the white in the bill and, of course, those numbers that will be formed only at the end of words in the law or on the basis of a sub-law or regulation. There's a big difference here, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u145	Thank you. And Mr. Stabe from this list.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. We all agree that the law significantly improves conditions. Of course, we also agree that these scholarships, especially for those students and students who are in a poor social situation, are by no means substituted, in absolute amounts, for their costs, especially if we take into account individual cases - the distance and conditions to stay in the place of study, because they are also very different. I don't doubt the good intentions of this amendment, by no means! And it is close to me, too, but look, ladies and gentlemen, we are simply introducing two different censorships to obtain a full scholarship, of course also reading articles from the 27th onwards, where there are various supplements that do not only relate to additions to stay outside the study site. And here is actually some kind of, I think it's a hard word - discrimination, certainly, but some difference for those socially weaker students and students from families who reach up to 60% of the minimum wage on average in the family, and those who, according to this amendment, are -- it's all said to be true -- and for those who would now, in accordance with this amendment, separate two different censorships, which meet exactly 60%. And from 60% to 65% of it is decided by the Ministry of Law, I don't know if it's the government then, and up to 60% of it is regulated by law for all those who stay out of the place of study. I think it is more important that, together with the more decisive reform measures that students should actually propose, we go towards more meaningful investment, if I may say in a capital sense, the money that the state is making for both the scholarship and the cost of the study. Because those costs are still significantly higher. Moreover, I think that if we were to encourage the economy to increase the human resources scholarships, which, by "defolt" and by the logic of things, would be significantly more favourable than these state scholarships, which simply introduce some social adjustment, well-intentioned but not sufficient. We all want more to see this somehow release some of the resources that the state is earmarking for state scholarships and also for Zois' scholarships, which are important because of the promotion of some kind of excellence. I am confident that in the case of possible resources, savings or a more effective study, the government and the ministry will also be able to propose this classical higher censorship. In addition, if you look at the draft [[internal]] The law on higher education, one of the articles speaks of the need to subsidise the transport of students to the place of study. Regrettably, I will not support this amendment, but, of course, I appeal to the Government and the Ministry, as well as to the students, to seek more decisive reform measures in order to enable favourable credits for the study to be made, and that this benefit means a long period of return in the event that the student candidate acquires employment after the study has been completed, on the contrary, it is not that part of this is returned and that it is somehow more motivated by quality studies and quick studies and early employment, which is, of course, good for all the actors involved in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u147	Thank you, too. Since there is still an interest in the debate on Article 13 and the amendment, I am reopening the possibility of applying. Mr. Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u148	Thank you very much again. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When I listen to the debates of all debaters, I note that this amendment is very close to you all, that what we are advocating in this House and the Government is also advocating that it is going this way. And in the final stage, I didn't hear a true argument against this amendment, but some beliefs within the parties are a little different. However, I believe that until today's vote, it is still time for reason to prevail, for the benefit of our students, students, and from White Landscape to Prekmurje, from Jessenic to Sevnica, if you will. Let us take this for granted. I don't think it's such a financial supply, it's not an obstacle that would burden anyone, because in the end it has scissors and canvas, as I've already said, the ministry, it's going to set those criteria that are going to - after I say "drink water," after all. Therefore, I ask and appeal to all Members of Parliament, Members and Members, let us accept this, because it is certainly fair, good, equal accessibility, fairness, balance among all those who will run for this higher award for these scholarships. But when they don't get him, he won't be in the same position again. The student from the place of school and the student from outside the place of school, when he fails the scholarship, will again be beaten by the one who is outside Ljubljana. Is that fair? It's not. As many arguments as have been said here in favour of this amendment, I believe this will happen as soon as possible. And I also believe in what the predecessor of the Human Resources Fellowship said before me. This is a major Slovenian crisis. It's a serious crisis. Despite all the conditions that we give, give some municipalities and provinces or the country and it is not successful and it is happening today, very much, at least I speak from my environment, when students go to study anywhere, in Ljubljana, Maribor, and finish studies, they do not return. What does this mean for those environments without this intellect that Slovenia has that it will have? And with such personnel matters, perhaps it would be easier to bring someone back from where he went to study in Ljubljana. But that's another story that doesn't fit in this amendment, but it's very serious, it's worrying, because this intellectual outflow is increasing too much from year to year. But regions that are at the edge of Slovenia are without this necessary potential to develop their environments. Therefore, at the end of the whole debate, which is and will be, I do not see any real argument against and I suggest we support this amendment, and by the time of the vote try to reconcile yourself between the parliamentary groups - those who do not yet believe in it for sure, but most think they already. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I'm joining the speaker. Let us all try to focus on the content and not on the proposer. So this amendment will help decentralisation, of course it will also help reduce brain drains from less developed areas of Slovenia, it will contribute to more coherent regional development and all of this will still be an option. The amendment does not change the conduct or content of the law to the detriment of anyone, but gives the minister additional options, in a specific case, to the Minister of the Interior, which he or she will be able to take advantage of or not. Therefore, once again my call to the coalition; but if not, see, this amendment does not come from the opposition, it comes from coalition species, so you can support it so much easier. And even if we support him in the opposition, there is certainly one broader consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that again. Of course, I would like to draw the attention of colleagues and colleagues to one fact. According to the price recorded, we also recorded 60 % of the minimum wage in Article 27, depending on the distance from this figure 60%. So we've admitted that not all those eligible for a 60% scholarship are equal. So we recognize the different social status of the individual recipient of the state grant. Now I ask myself, and it was very well said what the difference between one student from Ljubljana and the Murska Sobota and where the absolute amounts are. And we are trying to defend this amendment, which in the second paragraph speaks of the Minister taking into account two elements: the first is distance, the second is certainly very important, and the development of the regions. And I hope that all of us are more or less familiar with the developmental hazard index, which is fundamentally different depending on distance, for example, we can say from the center. If we just say the central Slovenian region has an index of 8.7 on one side, while the pomurska has 159.5. And if you add these numbers to it now, then it's in itself that we don't want those who are going to be away from the study site to have the same opportunities for access to the study. So if we do not try to make any adjustments depending on these two criteria of distance and development of the region, we will not allow a key idea, i.e. the most equivalent, equitable access to study opportunities. And 60%, I can agree, but somewhere there's an assessment of where the border is placed. But this limit, given the same material possibilities, will be the same for the one who lives right next to the city, and the one who doesn't know how many, 10, 50, 100 or more kilometers away. And this is trying to correct this amendment with two criteria, which is more precisely defined by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, in order to try to find the right solution within this interval. That's the idea. And if we want to see the differences within 60% of the censorship, I don't understand that we don't want to see the difference in dependency under the same condition depending on the distance of stay from the city of study. And if someone in this house thinks that the costs for those are the same, then I think that 1 plus 1 in the National Assembly never holds that this is 2, although a colleague of Rudy Mohe may sometimes prove otherwise with some evidence. And the initiative with this amendment has been given. If we accept this difference, then we will allow what we are trying to explain to you here today. If not, you do not want to hear this fact and do not want to hear it and do not want to strengthen it by allowing individuals to choose to take advantage of their best potential. Because a lot of students who decide to study, you will focus on deciding on some colleges or some course of study, because because of the distance, a certain wish will be unattainable. And I think with the Slovenians and the Slovenians, that's unacceptable. We're small, let's make it possible for everyone to develop, and that's one of the criteria, one of the options. Let us therefore reconsider and confirm this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are talking about the amendment to Article 13, which I will read very carefully and will complement with absolutism. Some of you love absolute numbers. "State grants shall be granted to beneficiaries who fulfil the general conditions laid down in this Act and where the average monthly income per family member in the previous calendar year prior to the application does not exceed 60% of the minimum wage, which is 312.60 euros, during the same period for those beneficiaries who are studying or studying at their place of residence, and from 60% to 65% of the minimum wage, which is 338,65 euros for those beneficiaries who are studying and studying outside their place of residence." So today we are convincing and arguing and reading in the state budget, in numbers, for the fights of 26.05 euros. 26,05 euros should not be allowed to people who, and now I am bound to the second paragraph, because apparently some also do not understand why the second paragraph is that there is even a higher censorship condition for someone to get a scholarship. Then comes the so-called Article 14 of the Law. What helps me is section 14 of the law, which gives me extras for A, B, C, C, D, if he doesn't even have a scholarship! We're talking about censorship giving someone the chance to get a scholarship. Now I hope you understand. I don't know what the connections had to the Škofov institutions at Mr Drobnič's, but of course, the biggest nonsense I've heard is 'borrowing is a decisive instrument to achieve the goal'. Well, now tell me that someone who wants to give a child education doesn't have the money to pay him; he doesn't have the money because he doesn't have the source of income. Since he doesn't have a source of income, the bank won't give him a loan. I mean, logic! Let the poor guy go to the bank, ask for a grant loan, and they'll tell you how much you have to pay, and he'll say, I get 100 euros or 200 support -- sorry, you don't get a loan. And that means, sorry, your kid's not going to study. Nice, great policy, great policy! Do you know what a loan is? Globalisation - said Mr Petty Officer. Of course, in globalisation, it is an extraordinary and good income for a bank that cares about one student who wants to study, but cannot. And don't tell me the loan is an instrument! Which means the scholarship is a bummer! This is the logic of the primary, secondary; the logic of the comparison. Well, the scholarship's a dead end then. And the Human Resources Fellowship, ladies and gentlemen, I will be delighted to hear in a month's time if you list 100 companies, if you live in your environment and with your environment, who are even interested in human resources scholarships that are even able to grant human resources scholarships! Tell me, I will be very happy to listen to the list and review the list of these companies. These companies and these privates, the privates, the management, the new managers for the human resources scholarships! They don't care! They are interested in the cheap use of the workforce, after the use of discards, the factory closes and goes home. They can do this because they don't have educated people, because they don't want to hire them, because the only thing you can do is steal everything from a man, and you can't get his mind back. And of course, you're afraid there'll be as many smarts as possible. You're afraid you'd be as smart as you can be because everyone's smart because they're smart and they're gonna kick them out for once. And that's not socialism, and that's not communism, that's reality. Loans - banks lend loans for such interest that you lose your mind. And let a poor man get them, who can't pay a student or stay, or anything, or go get a loan, so they can throw him in there. Here we go, once again, for the 26.05 euros that some of us have, and I'll be with you, calmly, quietly sleeping in one day at a restaurant. All together.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u155	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u156	Thank you very much. In fact, what I was about to say was Mr Barovic had already said before me, and I can only underline or say - a little sobriety would be necessary here. The difference found in the second paragraph, or in the first one speaking from 60 to 65%, which, of course, depends on two factors, is said to be 26 euros from the development of the region and from the distance of education. And now we've been talking about these 26 euros for quite some time, and I don't understand this insubordination in this kind correction. At the same time, I do not understand that there is silence on the government's side. After all, the Government itself explained in the explanation of the law when it had to represent various practices abroad, states that take into account where they say that the amount of assistance to students and students depends on the place of residence during the study, and also whether students live with parents or not. So, is he out of his place of residence or not? And that an increased amount of financial assistance is also intended in some countries for students who are enrolled in an educational institution far from their official residence. For example, in Italy, Austria, Portugal, for example, there is probably nowhere else to go. This is said to have been the case, but it was not understood. I would like to stress, once again, what has been said today - 26 Euros of difference in the definition of censorship, it is obvious that you are all confusing whether it is the level of the scholarship or not, but the censorship for even the possibility of obtaining a scholarship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr. Gabr has failed to report, so I'm going to give him my word now.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Personally, I do not think that €26 in censorship is something that can just be overlooked, but censorship is completely realistic and is not very transparent. What I'm pointing out to the Government and what I think we're talking about here today is the justice of the system we're setting up. He spoke most vividly about this issue so far, fellow Slavinec, when he pointed out this and then colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš, two points where justice must be checked. One is fairness in the amount of scholarship and allowances together - this law regulates. But he does not regulate or hunt righteousness at the point of entry; where it comes to whether or not someone will receive a scholarship at all. That's something the coalition should be able to agree on. This can be done by means of mechanisms that are in law, including additions in the third reading, to be arranged with complete elegance. This distinction, which takes into account the fact that the cost of someone who is away from the site of the study is different from that of someone who studies where he lives, is not taken into account here. Of course, this is a highly refined mechanism, and this also causes some difficulties in adopting these mechanisms. For students and students it is, I think, a lesson at a rather high level on what a system of distinction means, a positive distinction, which also means a Rolls concept of distinction. That's what we're talking about here. So I will support these amendments, and there are two reasons: because it is necessary to establish justice at the point of access to the grant, and now we have not caught it by what is written in the law. The second reason is that greater justice, social justice, in society is definitely linked to those places that are far more remote and that are socially weaker. If we want to raise justice, we need to allow a larger number of those from these places to enter the scholarship system. It's a system, we're not going to fix it, but at least we're going to cut it a little bit. You have scissors and canvas in your hands, with a percentage of it can be arranged, even for the same amount of money.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u159	Thank you. Is there still interest in discussing this article and this amendment? Yeah. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 13 and the amendment of the People's Party. Mr. Rezman, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I'm not gonna spend much time just saying a few words in support of this rating that we're giving to the students. I may even be a little populism and demagogistic in this regard, but I will do it on purpose in such a way that I realize in advance that there is a possibility of my discussion. Members and Members of Parliament are also positively discriminated against in view of what we are getting in this national assembly. For example, those of us who are far enough away have only an entry price in kilometers to have an apartment in Ljubljana and on this basis we get an allowance for a separate life and everything else that belongs to it. I don't know why this positive discrimination that we can afford, and not a single Member or Member of Parliament has ever heard against it, even students. Not because they want to be kind, but because they probably have an objective way of doing things. And there is a difference in whether someone is studying and living in the same place or not, not only at material costs, even after they are essential differences in the social environment, that this is a major handicap, that are essential differences at a time that he loses because he has to come to another place, while someone else can, say, study or possibly through a student's travel agent, acquire funds to save, that he will also go to training abroad. So if I say now why I thought I was a little bit demagogic, because we take these same criteria with us, then we'll see that what we're guaranteeing ourselves, we wouldn't want to give the students right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u161	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u162	Just for a little while. Indeed, there is a difference, and neither of us has said that there is a difference between students who live in Ljubljana, for example, and those who come from somewhere else and then live here. Nor is it a problem in 26 euros per student. The problem is, it's not fair for me to give a different entry price for each other, because it's going to happen to us the same way - by what logic and how we're going to justify not getting a scholarship, with a certain income in the family and someone else getting it. For me, this is no justice and no equality. And then the Ombudsman warned of this, that it was not the same if someone had to have such income, but another if we were to look at it from the other side. Well, I believe, given that the censorship was previously linked to the guaranteed salary and has now turned into a minimum to extend those beneficiaries who will receive it. And now they're going to get scholarships for a lot more people, and as a result, a lot more students and students are going to get supplements from this title. I believe that. And at the end of the day, it's gonna happen to us again that this thing is gonna be screaming at the Constitutional Court because someone with 60% won't get it, and someone with 62% will get it. And what are we going to say then - about justice and I don't know what? And to coordinate and to take care of the development of the region, this is what the regional schemes are for, and this is why additional money is allocated to grant human resources scholarships. Indeed, there have not been many in recent years, but they are now co-financed by the state. And in view of all the changes in the economy, I think that the economy is also aware of and reminds us that it does not get the staff it needs. And I guess we're doing it with these changes, and I believe it, so I can't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u163	Thank you. Since there is still an interest after the discussion on this Article, I am reopening the possibility of applying. Mr. Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u164	I'm sorry, but I don't know which amendment you've been explaining how unfair he is to whom. I think it's very clear, simple and simple written and it says clearly when, who, where and who has the last word - not Members, but the Ministry. This will determine on the basis of distance and on the basis of the region the rules of the game and will lay the foundations of how this will be fair and fair. Is it fair that if you both lose a candidate or a student or a student in Ljubljana and Sevnica, you don't get a scholarship? And then the Sevnica guy is out of both transportation and stay? Is that fair, miss or ma'am? That's not fair! I mean, so much to talk about, I think it's been said a lot, and we're just repeating nothing as many times as all of us. I believe and I am sure that there will be a healthy vote in our heads and that we will vote honestly, for the good of what improves. This has been said so many times: accessibility, equality, honesty, justice and so on and that all students of our beautiful country will have equal conditions and opportunities, even though not yet. There will still be great differences between the student in Ljubljana who is in Ljubljana school, as well as the student from the White Landscape who drives to Ljubljana and lives in Ljubljana and so on. But let's at least show a little bit of understanding here. As far as we are concerned, colleagues, apartments - yes, indeed, those Members who are a little far away, we have the right to an apartment, ladies and gentlemen, and we pay him dearly, you know, you didn't say that. We're paying dearly for it, which is why some of us haven't benefited from it, because it's too expensive. And many Slovenians don't know that. They think of the ratings these Members have. But when you explain the matter to them, that's not the case. I'm afraid that's not the case. I have to pay the rent fairly as any citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. I only have the right to get it if I am more than that far from Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u165	Thank you. You want a replica, even though you haven't been named? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u166	It was all about me. I wasn't talking about us having no right. Students have the right to live, but they also have to pay. No one invites them to live for free or to drive free of charge by public means. They have the right, but they also have the costs.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u167	Thank you. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Allow me to read what is written in the amendment. And I'm going to focus on the second paragraph of the amendment. The second paragraph clearly and loudly speaks, respected colleagues and colleagues: The Minister responsible for the work, in this case the Minister, by means of a sub-legislative act with regard to the distance from the place of education and the development of the region in which the beneficiary has a permanent residence, prescribes in more detail the amount of the price between 60% and 65% of the minimum wage for obtaining the State grant. This too must be taken into account. This provision is an integral part of the amendment. Don't say we're going to go some injustice between students, future potential beneficiaries. The Minister responsible for working under the law determines that the distance from the place of residence from the place of education is important. The so-called travel costs, now that I say quite simplistic, by the way. I would also like to know what you will say, specifically respected colleague, at the next two amendments. If the amendment is not adopted, will more people really receive the grant on the basis of the bill? I seriously doubt it, or my logic, and you'll say, I don't know, I just don't know how to think logically - even right. But calculations also tell me or my thinking for the good. If we're going to be child support and I don't know what kind of income we're still counting on in the family's total income, then I don't know what calculations make it possible to get a grant from more eligible people. Last but not least, just one more thing that I would like to point out, and then I'm going to interrupt the debate on this amendment and make it sound so populist, but that's the fact: we've heard, about 26 euros is that range between 60% and 65% of the minimum wage. Approximately €26. If it is based on an adopted amendment, I speak hypothetically, the new beneficiaries 1000, there are 1,000 students and students, we reach the number 26,000 euro. Tell me, what is this amount at the annual level under the State budget, given that the same government in another field, at the Ministry of Education, is insanely increasing funding for 100% private education funding? I don't know this logic or this policy, school policy, I'm not getting along. Let me explain why such double morality is: on the one hand, when we talk about social transfers or social adjustment, social assistance from the state, a system that is commendable in our country. On the other hand, we're going to talk about 100% private education funding - and here everything is nice and good. But the costs are not comparable, believe me.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u169	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u170	Thank you. Since there's been so much talk about supplements, let me say that the types of supplements for Zois' scholarships are the same as those for the state grant. What are these supplements, how they are directed, is indeed, as my colleague Šteba said, in some other articles that bear a higher number than the one we are discussing. But I did not come forward for this, but to say that there are studies that say that the social origin of the student in many ways also depends on its success in the study, because it is expected that the social environment is also a better substrate for achieving better results. So they also have a better chance of getting Zois' scholarship. However, if we are talking about the fact that we want to promote more coherent regional development by means of a scholarship policy, if we are talking about incentives, then those who are very keen to talk about it in other contexts should support this amendment to Article 13 because it is impossible to think that in a smaller area they need a larger number of similar experts, they need different ones and they need to drive to different places of study. There is nothing that helps if everyone goes to cell logistics and then they work in Kozyanski, there is nothing that helps, because there are other experts in Kozanski they need. And that's what we're talking about. I have warned that there is an entry price of between 60% and 65% for 26 euros. Yeah, I think it's important. We can minimize that, and say, it's not essential. Or someone says it's essential. But let's see how high the staff is -- sorry -- the staff must be at least as high as the state scholarship. For the student, it amounts to €54 in the absolute amount without any additions, €94 for the student in the first year. So if you're just looking at these differences, in any case, the one who's better is rewarded. That's why Stuba's colleague, talk about state scholarships, about excellence. Greatness is connected to Zois' scholarship. This rewards extraordinary achievements. But we know that for various reasons as a student, someone is not as successful as he is, because he has to do more or know more than anything else, but he can later be a very good expert. And we're talking about these, and we need you. And I think it would just suggest thinking about some mechanism called positive discrimination. Is that the difference Mr Pojbič, since you are alone from that end at the state border at home and we are not exactly there, we do not bathe in honey and milk, probably. [[...]] We know social problems from our place. So it would make you think a little bit about these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u171	Thank you. Is there any other interest after the discussion on this article? More. I'm reopening the application. However, I would ask that all those who wish to discuss the matter apply now and not after Mrs Pecanova has finished. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I must say that this debate on the amendment to Article 13 is extremely interesting, and I think it would be right to link the amendment to Article 13 with the amendment to Article 16 because they are extremely closely connected. From a purely practical point of view, I would say that all those students and students who go to study outside of their place or to study outside their place of residence are, of course, extremely low prices, so the basis is 125 thousand former tolars - but I can't count well in euros. And when you're counting about 75,000 tolars is 60% per family member, if it's a three-member family, it's only one child in the family, it's 225,000 tolars. It is said that the poor 1,000 euros is a family income, in which everything goes according to Article 16. Everything. Children's records, student income, social assistance, and I don't know what else. It is said that basically the family who sends their child to school in Ljubljana, for example, that I will not list Primorska because I have to complain because Primorska was not mentioned, from Piran to Maribor or Prekmurje, somewhere. Okay, we have the university. What about where there's no university around? What about the one who wants to go to study something that's not at the University of the Sea? And let's say, if he has a lot of luck and gets a place, a bed in a student settlement, the lowest rent in a student settlement is, as far as I know, about 11 000 500 tolars, it's 50 euros. He's got four euros left from his scholarship. He's got four euros left of a scholarship! The allowance is then another 25, 26 euros at the expense of living outside the place of residence. So, parents with 1,000 euros will have to give this child, let's say, the sum of sumarum in the first year anyway can't get a reward for learning success, because they don't count yet - simply parents have to add at least another 150 euros from those 1,000 euros to survive in Ljubljana at all; with all the student vouchers and with all the help they can get. It's different if you live in a place where there's a school or a college, because if not, you can take your bike to school and back. At least what it is. While certainly someone from Osilnica cannot drive to Ljubljana with a bicycle and cannot drive there every day. You can drive twice a year for recreation. And because I believe that this amendment has been tabled by colleagues from the People's Party and then Article 16, where it also deletes certain revenues which are completely illogically included in the censorship. Why is he illogical? Because it's understandable to me that, let's say someone, a student, where parents together earn 1,000 euros to get a scholarship, has, through Article 16, a ban on student work. Because next year he loses his scholarship. We do know, however, that it needs twice or even twice as much at the lowest possible cost at the site of the study. So I have to say that it seems to me that while censorship is as low as it is, it seems impossible for me not to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I understand this amendment and the debate on this amendment mainly in the direction of an allowance for schoolchildren outside their place of permanent residence. Madam Minister, this is not an excruciating situation that we could cut if we advised the coalition Members to support this amendment, because it would not - it promises nothing. I think this has already been pointed out by a colleague from the Slovenian National Party. You still have, on the basis of the second paragraph of this amendment, the possibility that at the end, if it happens to empty the budget for students with private college money, for example, who have an absolute primate after a new one and say that your criteria based on the second paragraph are such that there is no allowance for schooling outside the place of permanent residence. But another speculation. Coalition Members may need to know. Visiting the Government in Slovenia said that we will have 14 provinces and that each province will have its own university and that we will probably have a lot of colleges along the provinces. [[...]] [[Intermediate call from the bench.]] The president of the government said to us, "You'll have a country and your university." It means that we will have a lot of opportunities to train our children in our province, which has not so long a relationship, but a condition that we will have a university; it has even been said that it will be very fast. And, of course, most will have the possibility of schooling in the home and then this solution of the Slovenian People's Party will not be necessary. Of course, this solution to the relocation of universities does not mean that this amendment does not have to be supported, but in this case it will be irrelevant. Of course, there are many questions here, but things are running in this direction and there is still no reason not to support the Slovenian People's Party amendment in the text that is before us without concern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u175	Thank you. Is there any other interest? I can still see the hand, so I'm reopening my application. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u176	Thank you very much. In particular, I would like to call for this debate, which was about Article 13 very rich to hear the government's opinion. The government has plenty of time to come forward whenever they can raise their hand, and to let the minister know whether the public reading, the invitation of students, yesterday before your ministry, convinced her. Some MPs of the coalition, opposition, that's what it is. I also suggest, President, that if the Government so wishes, it tells us what a problem it has with the adoption of this amendment, so that we do not waste any time needlessly. However, I will, of course, take a further look at Article 16 below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u177	Thank you. I don't think there's any interest left. I give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u178	Thank you very much. This law can truly be commended by the Government, because I do not know the government in the European Union, which would provide one quarter of the number of state scholarships or grant scholarships to the socially weak. Given that we have 38 000 state scholarships and that we are increasing state scholarships with this law to 10,000, this law is truly commendable and we can be proud of it and of students as well. With regard to the amendments to Article 13, I would like to explain, as has already been said today, also the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service, and we are all committed to respecting the constitutionality and legality of this amendment, so that, in so far as it is supported by individual rights, it can be disputed over equality before the law. Even today, there was a comment on the comparison of the Member - a student. This cannot be compared in any way, for the Member must also fulfill the entry price that he has been elected, so must the student. The entry price must be the same for all, as it is for Members to be elected, for students the entry price must also be the same so as not to violate the principle of constitutionality. Article 14 of the proposed law provides that they shall receive an additional education outside their permanent residence. In addition, the supplement, which has been mentioned several times today, remains the instruments of scholarships, which are educated outside the place of residence, either an allowance for a stay of €79 or an allowance for transport in suburban or cross-border transport, amounting to a maximum of €93. The amount depends on the distance from the place of education and the subsidy for transport under the other provisions of Article 30 of the law. The Ministry will also lay down the criteria for determining this supplement in more detail by means of a sub-legislative act. The adoption of the proposed amendment would lead, once again, to the unequal treatment of candidates for the grant, as the entry price should be the same for all. Comments were also made regarding regional development or the deprivation of a student living in Sevnica or Lendava, compared with those living in Ljubljana. It could be the other way around. Even those who live and come from a highly developed region or work in Ljubljana may also go to Maribor to study in Koper or Novo Gorica, which is less developed. This is not how this system of regionalism endures. The final objective of this law is essentially to ensure that everyone is treated equally. And the supplements, which are determined according to those who live outside the site, are provided. If we compare the Student Food Subsidisation Act itself and compare it with it, we must respect the exact principle of equality. For those who reside in Ljubljana, if they follow your principle of proposing an amendment, then those from faraway places should also have a more subsidised diet, not the same as those who live in a place where they have a permanent residence and are studying in a place. Here, too, the principle of equality is respected, and it is also dealt with here. We must therefore respect the principle of equality in all laws, not only those who answer us. Only student residence is subsidised. Here too, the country contributes its share to stay. With regard to regional differences in Slovenia, I must also point out that in this law we also foresee human resources scholarships to cover regionalism or to return to regions where certain personnel are lacking. To this end, the state will contribute 50% of the human resources grant in order to stimulate the scholarship of those coming from less developed regions. Also with regard to censorship, whether someone exceeds the euro or two euros, he has the opportunity to obtain a human resources grant, and he also has the opportunity to obtain a Zois scholarship. That is why we also have a number of types of scholarships, and this ensures above all equality before the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u179	Thank you. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the two amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. I'm opening the application. [[The ad in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have concluded my debate earlier on Article 13 and the amendments and I am opening a new debate. Mr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u180	Mr President, you will probably be abusing yourself now, but the discussion that took place in the previous article is important, and I think it is also important to understand equality in this country and especially to understand justice. So I would ask if you would let us explain these points. Madam Minister, the notion of justice that you represent here, the notion of equality, is only one of the possible concepts that they know in this sphere. And I'd dare say that's what the job wrote down and you quoted it as something old. New concepts have known for quite some time that equality, especially justice, is needed in the light of circumstances. And here today we talked about the need to check the fairness of regulation in two points: one of course is the height of the scholarship, and you regulate it well and with all honor for this arrangement. The other is the point of fairness at that point when it comes to who has access to the scholarship. And here is the cost of someone who lives outside the center, where he studies, but at the starting point, as proved by his fellow Slavinac, is greater. And let us agree and take this into account, in this way the law will be even better. I don't know if it's necessary to insist dead on things that are no longer the only truth in this world.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u181	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to my fellow Member, Mr Jožet Drobnič, and before I make a procedural proposal to my colleague, I would like to remind the ministry that it can be included in the debate whenever it pleases. Comrade Squeakle, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u182	Mr President, my procedural proposal is as follows. We discussed Article 13, Members discussed. I invited the Minister myself, and then, of course, I expect that this is a debate - the Minister says something, and then we can discuss something on it. The President-in-Office did not give us an opportunity, so I expect - two procedural options are either to return to Article 13 or to allow a debate with Article 16, which will, of course, also be related to Article 13. I cannot, however, allow or agree that discussions in the National Assembly with a single amendment end when the government speaks. Then this is not a debate. The government is one of the debaters, for the first time, if I am not mistaken, it has given us some statements, about which I have many doubts, the issue of equality before the law, as stated, would mean that there is no reason for Slovenian municipalities to be co-financed by the state budget between 10% and 70%. This, of course, does not hold back, it simply does not excite and it is a very banal thing, Madam Minister. Of course, if this issue of equality applies as you have presented here, then of course we must get into the situation as explained by Mr Juban. Because those who can't get a scholarship or because they can't go along with a scholarship that they probably won't get, and with their resources they have, they're just not going to go to school outside of their place of residence. And that means closing down universities, locking up school students into, you know, simplified, domestic places. Or is it the promotion of private universities in Nova Gorica - I don't know yet. But it looks so strange. Novogorians should study at private universities in Nova Gorica because we will not give them scholarships to go to Ljubljana anyway. So the President, I think that Mr President of the National Assembly made a procedural error, closed the debate immediately after the Minister had told her, without allowing Members to discuss the contents of her reply. I hope that you will allow us to discuss this further in the ensuing debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u183	Thank you, too, for your proposal. Following the content you have provided in your procedural proposal, before your proposal, I have reminded the Minister that she can be involved in the debate at any time, so there is no need to wait for the last moment. I will ask you to do so from this address. As far as the content of Article 13 itself is concerned, i.e. the previous article, the President of the National Assembly closed it. However, I believe that each of us can extend the content of Article 16 in pursuit of our objective. From this title, we continue with the applications, which is the word of Member Janez Drobnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u184	Thank you very much for correcting my name, because in the first announcement you mentioned Jozet Drobnič, who could also be my brother, but he was not elected to this Parliament. If the government has awarded 10,000 new scholarships, then, of course, criteria must go in this direction and therefore very good simulations, precise simulations, which are relatively difficult [[...]] [[Sound from the hall.]] [[...]] [[How, does the hour warn me to get up?]] So, precise simulations. Given the existing criteria and the revised criteria now mentioned, we can assume that the objective will not be achieved. That can be calculated. However, if we were to accept the amendments under number 13, so Article 13, and then we would approach this number with both of them, with paragraphs 16. Why? Because there are now some under-laws that bring a substantial number of scholarships into this round of recipients. If you do not comply with these criteria, which are currently in law and are inappropriate from a systemic point of view - there is no proper regulation, but it is legal - then of course you will get fewer scholarships. Then it's hard to predict in advance: it'll be 10,000. I am happy and the students will also be happy, the citizens will be happy. But we have to ask if this path will lead to a goal. Then, if we are to achieve your goal, we must accept both amendments. The second amendment to Article 16 is similar to the one I submitted in the first reading on the home work body with the aim of obtaining 10,000 scholarships. From a systemic point of view, however, you will say that this is not an appropriate amendment because it undermines a consistent system of social transfers and such a relief is not taken into account. But only under the condition that this is taken into account, the children's allowance will come to this end. That's what I had to explain. Now it is necessary to decide whether to go with a different criterion, the entry option to raise censorship, generally. But it's not possible without each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. But we agree on something, Comrade Petty Officer. For I, too, am deep or very firm in the position which you have spoken before me. If we are to achieve the objective set out in the law, then the two amendments that we have tabled in the Slovenian National Party to Article 16 under Article 1 and Article 2 must be adopted. And now I'm going to give a purely banal example, which is very easy to understand, even with numbers, if you want. Following the current regime, the student work is not taken into account within the framework of the common income of the family, from which, of course, the scholarship would be calculated, at least to the extent not, as you, the minister, suggest, with the new law. It's a very clear matter. This amendment is also prepared on the basis of the Income Act, which speaks in Article 113 on special relief. I think that the solution is very simple and that the solution would actually help to achieve 7,000 or 10,000 new scholarships as much as you promise. Last but not least, you know, it's not fair to take a four-member family: a student or two students, someone working through a student service, is actually doing a student's job, getting paid for a student's job. And because of this payment, the student's personal payment, which will be added to the total income of the family to calculate the amount of the scholarship or censorship, due to this student's work, another student - his brother or sister - may lose the right to a scholarship. That's not fair. On the other hand, I'm interested in another, I don't know, I'm going to say - nonsense, nonsense of government work. On the one hand, we have not heard much today that we would like to limit our student work. The measures set out in the Act on Grants should also be targeted or should go in this direction. On the other hand, just before the time or just at the beginning of the mandate, when the Government has already begun to prepare for the Presidency of the European Union, we have heard that, just during the Presidency, we will be hiring a student labour force. How will the student workforce be paid? Will the state abuse the student workforce? I know that they are already talking within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that education or training of students for student work should already begin during the Presidency. Explain to me this nonsense of government work!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Article 16 is, by means of its indents, with the exception of the first indent, that the income is regarded as taxable income under the law governing income, pure nonsense and introduces inequality before the law. In Slovenia, personal income tax obligations are regulated and, of course, the associated incomes are governed by the Income Act. All you have listed below is, of course, related to what you say, as you say, "a unified greater transparency and a simpler scheme of social transfers", and to what you have said, Madam Minister, if I have listened to you carefully, in your opening statement, that the aim is also to reduce the scope of student work. Indeed, the application or maintenance of the third indent to take into account the work of a brother’s sister in the family’s income and therefore negatively affect the possibility of obtaining a brother’s scholarship, from a sister or sister to a brother, is a pure anomaly. We can keep moving. "Indirectly established incomes and benefits when it is found that a person or family pays at a certain level for goods or services not related to survival." Please! How will you determine that? The family goes to Karitas or to the Red Cross, gets in the nature of a certain income, and you're going to deduct it from the income. That is why, of course, Madam Minister, the President of the Government, who adopted this law at its meeting - we have to determine the scope of the Income Act. For the Income Act we have the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, as independent as it is yet, we have tax forecasts, we have control. All you've added here is - I don't know who's going to do it? The Republic Employment Office, which individuals will report to him that the XY family still has indirect income and income, because someone is working to clean up grass after lunch on this farm and therefore is the income higher? Or they went to the "talon," as they say, and so on. I mean, you're creating an impossible situation. Therefore, all that belongs to this common income of the family is the first indent because it is taxable income. Just saying that they include interest on debt securities and interest on cash deposits from banks and savings banks for families wishing to have a grant without EUR 1,200 of deduction in the Income Act as a whole is a pure anomaly. Grandma was saving for her own, so I'll say, grandchild or the funeral and her interest will be included in your income. Who's going to give you this information? Banks are reporting only from €1,200 forward; we had a major debate on this. However, it is interesting that they do not include interest on denationalisation bonds, but you did not include this. I believe that Mr Stroves and some who have opposed this in another discussion are not for this. So, I mean, the story is completely confused with the logic of tax administration, the logic of income and what income is. I therefore recommend, of course, that we support such an amendment to Article 16 in order to delete the ninth indent of the first paragraph in order to delete the third indent, thereby leaving the article open and in the third reading, we delete everything except the first indent. Or we will create an additional Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for scholarships. Because, Madam Minister, let us leave now that you have gone so far as to include the elimination of the life-cycle monthly pension that one receives under the Law on Victims of War Violence and so on, it is a few five children and we have a special indent for them. And of course you'll have to see if they're the ones who can get this scholarship or not. Let them have it! And let them have a scholarship in addition to their monthly pension. Disability, disability benefits and so on. You will create enormous bureaucracy and create an additional apparatus that will cost you more than the costs associated with the new scholarships. And you're explaining that you're going to increase the number of scholarships. If this is fully enforced, no one will get a scholarship. Because people, you know, work a lot for weekends, and these are indirect incomes and benefits. These are indirect revenue and revenue, and therefore, the Minister, please, I propose that we support these amendments and then in the third reading we delete everything except the first indent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u189	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, will you respond to the dilemmas put forward? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u190	Thank you very much. In determining the actual material situation of the family, account must be taken of all the income received by the family in fact, including the student income, irrespective of taxation. For this reason, we believe that it is not possible to comply with the proposed amendment, since it would cover up part of the family’s income or actual family material, the position of the family on which the scholarship is granted. We need to know something that the State grant is a social transfer and that is why we need to compare it with other social transfers. The allocation of a child allowance, including in the granting of financial social assistance as both social transfers, also takes account of student labour income. And it's also a scholarship, a state scholarship, a social transfer, and it's also a principle of equality of respect before the law. With regard to the amendment, as regards the child supplement, the same applies. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs disagrees with the proposed amendment, as regulation of the bill effectively prevents the accumulation of social transfers. Debts receiving multiple social transfers, cash social assistance, children's allowance, then a state grant, often reach or exceed the income of families receiving minimum personal income, and that is why equality in social transfers is the same here. The Ministry also considers that when determining the actual material situation of families, account must be taken of all the income received from the family, including the child allowance, which is also a social transfer. For this reason, we believe that it is not possible to comply with the proposed amendment, since it would otherwise cover part of the income on which the grant is granted. In any case, this solution in the law does not make the material situation of single - parent families worse, but even improves their situation. As a result of the increase in state grant censorship, they will have more opportunities to obtain a scholarship. The law also regulates the allowance on the basis of the income of the scholarship family. This solution and the raising of the entry price for the State grant will have the most important impact on the additional provision of a better material position for socially weaker students. That is why we do not support these two amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u191	Thank you very much. We're gonna open up a new application circuit. Here you go, please. So, in the debate, we have Article 16 and the two amendments of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. But we have five Members of Parliament who have been reported, [[..]] [[ad from the bench.]] I apologize, 4 Members and 1 Member of Parliament. [[...]] Thank you, Comrade Bajc. Member Mitja Slavinec has the floor. Here you go. A fellow Slavinac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. It is true, on the one hand, that we have heard the explanation of the proposaler - the Minister, about social transfers and also about how these matters are regulated at the tax level, but on the other hand, we have already heard more contradictory arguments and at least we can argue that the solution is the same as it is now, that a solution, unless the amendment is accepted is life-threatening, is not life-threatening and does not provide some perspectives and is not stimulating. On the other hand, at least every other year it can make it impossible for someone, and it is even worse to force them to spend every year exclusively with the student work through which they have so much to say, but in the student work alone I do not see so much bad, we must not generalise and give a negative appeal to the student work because of some abuses, on the contrary, student work can and would be good if in as many cases it really meant the beginning of a good career, the beginning of a career that students begin to create at the time of study, if they could find a student job that is related to their studies, if they could already gain practical experience at this level. What's that gonna mean? That this practice in some way, if they were fortunate enough to be associated with the study itself, which also makes it easier for them to study materially, all of us here are very well aware that only scholarships, and however big they are and how many supplements we will give them, students cannot survive. That's a fact. In the case of socially weaker parents and other supporters, this student work facilitates studies with which some even make their studies possible, and then in the second phase, they withdraw their scholarship. And what's gonna happen? Two, whether the only source to study will be from a student's job, or not working, or working under a foreign name. So you're encouraging exactly what we want to do, against the abuse of student work. Wrong world and vicious circle. Why a vicious circle? Because of this, if a student breaks the scholarship, he will be even more forced to take care of his own position, his material situation, according to his household, for the resources he can study and will surpass the censorship even more. It is true that we have different types of scholarships, but it is also true that different types of scholarships are intended for different parts of the student population and only a small proportion of those that belong to the cross-border crowd and can run for each other or third. That is why there are different scholarships to increase the union of this crowd, not just to look for the small share of socially weak and highly successful and talented, such as those that might have Zois or the state. Then they are third-party, those who are very poor and the economy is interested and fall into the workforce of these scholarships. We can see, therefore, that this amendment really helps to make sure that the scholarships are given to the students most needed to receive the scholarships, those students who will take extra care of their material position and their careers while they are away from school, and are already improving their study of their employment opportunities. And for that, let's be lifelike and open the door there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Comrade Slavinec. However, Member Pavel Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Much has already been said and I did not want to get too involved in this article. This article will be supported in our Group of Non-Related Members, as well as in the previous article. I would like to make it clear, above all, that scholarships such as those of all types, especially students, partly also students who live outside of their place of residence do not provide survival, but are an increase that allows and slightly improves conditions, especially when studying outside their place and so on. You need to be aware of that. Only from the scholarship will no one actually be able to study, we all know that. This logic that has been put here is, of course, very questionable, precisely because of what has been said in part. In fact, taking into account student work's incomes, total income from this family's income. In particular, I would mention this, a student who for one reason or another cannot get a scholarship is, of course, going to work, because he works, of course, to break the censorship, as has already been said, and then still cannot get a scholarship and has to work even more. At the same time it is, and this is now a paradox that I would like to point out, but this is, even a certain perversion, that the scholarship fund is also financed from the student work. So, those who can't get a scholarship, they work and finance those who get a scholarship. That's a little too much. And I think that you must put an end to this matter if the aim of this law is to increase the number of scholarships by 10,000 and scholarships by, of course, scholarships, then it is necessary to say what Member Drobnic said, to adopt both proposals, amendments and to further open up the possibility of a scholarship. In a society that is rapidly developing, based on the knowledge that I will not repeat the flossule, this is, of course, essential. Of course, it is also necessary to eliminate this perversion for those who cannot receive scholarships or who still have to work with a scholarship, break the status and then work and finance others who have a scholarship. We have to resist this. We can't support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u195	Thank you very much. However, Member Milan Squeakl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Article 16, I am sorry that the Minister has left, has a very simple explanation. He says: Article 16: These incomes of the investor and family members are for all incomes and incomes that are the source of income; by the way, error is not a source of income, but are taxable and are the basis for income and the problem of other tax revenues and benefits. Nowhere else in any law are these other taxive incomes and benefits extended as well as in the law on scholarships. And that's why I'm repeating my previous conclusion. In Slovenia it is said that, on average, revenues in money are around €800, and it is also true in the calculation of purchasing power in Slovenia, and this is one of the reasons why we are so, I would say, sustainable in the long term, that people receive up to €400 per month of so-called own income generated by their own work; income from their own gardens, orchards and so on. You include all of this in your family's income. And it's perverse, of course, that students in families with lower incomes will be more hit by this, because, of course, these families have more income in nature. You are now including these revenues under the provisions of the individual indents, so I propose that we support both amendments and thus give ourselves the opportunity in the third reading to fully correct this article. Otherwise, of course, you put the whole legal order on your head in Slovenia. Otherwise, it is necessary to correct the income law and, of course, to properly include all that is now involved in the income law, or to decide what is the basis and who will verify it. Are we really going to have another Durs to design, determine the income of a family member due to the provisions of this law? I support the amendment and, of course, in this part, I will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u198	Thank you very much again for your word. Well, the Minister, both at the first amendment to the previous article, Article 13, as well as those two amendments to Article 16, was very nice, probably also liked by viewers and viewers, and I believe that many people in this Chamber have generalized matters. I will not touch its previous implementation when it speaks of the entry price. Let me just remind you that there are, you know, special conditions for Members, and somewhere else, despite the general censorship. But enough about that. However, as far as these two amendments are concerned in the context of Article 16, the Minister says that accumulation of social transfers is not permissible. This is not the case, since we live in a social state, respected colleagues and colleagues. This government boasted of the very kind legislation it had made for large families. Tell me what will happen to large families if the law on scholarships is adopted in the form proposed by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs! When all the supplements received by a large family are counted, all the social contributions will be made. Will the Minister then really be able to boast on such a large mouth about how good politics leads, politics, I do not know which is favored by large families who favor the promotion of births in our country. I would like to point out that when we are talking about a child supplement on the one hand and a scholarship on the other, there are two social transfers or social adjustments that we cannot compare in this context or in this way. You know, just the case, parents have the option to either apply a child's allowance or not. It's the same with scholarships. Will parents, then, decide not to apply the child allowance because they would exceed the price for obtaining a state grant? This means, in other words, respected colleagues and colleagues, that we are saving again at the expense of social welfare. The two amendments we are offering in the Slovenian National Party are moving away from this, I will say, a market-oriented policy that saves on the social account. It's not fair and it's not good. However, I am sorry that I did not have the opportunity, even within the framework of my mother's working body, to say a few words or two more about the role of social work centres that they will be given by this law. You know, also that policy or policy that imposes a shift on social work centres from advisory work, advisory social work and imposes only operational work on them, is a bad policy, because this policy on the other hand means that we will get concessionaries for advisory work that will have to be paid. Do we want this in our country? I say no. Therefore, my fellow Members and colleagues, you still have time to think, think about it, also because of the concrete arguments that I have put forward and join in supporting these two amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u199	Thank you very much. I invite Ambassador William Rezman to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u200	Thank you. The Minister mentioned earlier that the law is good, and those who support these two, and some of the amendments, we do not deny that both ambition and most of the laws are good. We simply want to make improvements with the support of the amendment. This is probably not something to be seen - an attempt to improve. The Minister also mentioned the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. We know this opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service. This is the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which does not mean that we should not consider anything about it. My point is that perseverance under exactly the same conditions, with full equality under different actual conditions, real conditions, is unfair. Equality shall be applied where the same conditions and comparable conditions are comparable. But when we insist on equality, under very different conditions, it is unfair. And that's why we have instruments that we call positive discrimination, and these two amendments, I think, mean exactly that they're correcting something that's actually not exactly comparable. And there's also a statement regarding the entry into parliament. Of course, all the parliamentarians were elected. But under unequal conditions. For example, some had to provide 15 signatures to some and thousands. Here, too, positive discrimination has been taken into account. They are not exactly the same formal conditions. I suggest we support these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u201	Thank you very much. I ask the Members present and the Members after the new round. I'm asking you to sign up. Member Aloys Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary, Minister! So when we listen to this debate, it seems to me that we are Members of the Pyramid show, that it is about who will make the public more convinced that they are right. But, look, due to objective information, some of the financial consequences of this law should be read, and in the same sentence Members who criticize it say that it is good. In 2007, state grants, which are state transfers, are said to be budgeted at €73 million and €800 million. When this law fully enters into force in 2009 and will be provided for about 10,000 state scholarships with more money, it will be necessary to allocate €94.657 000 from the budget, which means more than 21 million more for state scholarships. If we look at the situation in Zois' scholarships, the volume of these funds in 2007 is 16 million and 100,000, more than €9 million will have to be added in 2009. The students' awards will require €1 million 850 000 more in 2009, with the co-financing of staff scholarships increased by 1 million and 800 000 in 2008 and then by 2012, 2013 3 million 755 000. Count the costs. Here we are listening to Mr. Squeaky, who talks about grandmas, weeds, I don't know if he knows what it means to mow grass on our shores and so on. We listen to such findings as Dr. Gaber and Dr. Slavinec have said in 2007 that in 2007 education is more expensive for those who come to universities than outside, yes, we know this in the countryside for over 100 years, of course it is more expensive if you don't live in a place where the school is, then you have to pay a lot more. And what's important to us who come from these remote places is, more than just scholarships that will increase, that we create new jobs, that these people will come back, that they will have a job there, because if we don't create this, then soon it won't be more expensive for anyone, because everyone will live in cities and the countryside will be empty. And this is the concern of today's government, and this must also be done through resolutions, through programmes and so on to ensure that we are developing this real polycentric development and that we are providing new jobs. So, I must say that the purposes of this law are only positive and that the financial consequences of this law are great for this country, and of course we can also afford this, because the current economic growth is huge and Slovenia is rapidly progressing in this area, but we can worry about whether we will always achieve it or not, which is another issue. And if we do not invest in the economy today, then, of course, I fear that not and then all those social transfers that some say are too small must still be bigger and so on. I agree, but it is only necessary to create economic conditions for this. All I can say is that these objectives of the government and the ministry, in caring for the increase in funding for scholarships, can only be welcomed and, of course, I fully agree that all these social transfers must be summed up if we want to know once again how many people in this country are receiving from the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u203	Thank you, too. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u204	I would add something else about the equality of all social transfers, as I have already mentioned, in monetary social assistance and in children's allowance, account should be taken of all the family's income and should also be taken into account in state scholarships, which are social transfers. [[...]] Compared to: the financial social assistance amounts to 205 euros, and for students under the old law with all the maximum supplements, this is said to be a socially weak and also a good student, amounting to 275 euros, and under the new law the student is a republican or state scholarship with a maximum of 290 euros, which is increased by 14.24%. Similarly, for students, the old situation - according to the current law is 294,79 euros, after the new 308 euros, it is an increase of 13.21%. In Zois' scholarships there is an even greater increase, for students there is an old state of scholarship with maximum allowances of 427.92 euros; the new state of scholarship with maximum allowances is 442 euros; the difference is 14.08%, with current regulation. And if we compare this with a 205-euro cash social assistance that has the same conditions for all family allowances. I think we should also think about this data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u205	Thank you, too. And I'm opening a new application circuit. Please. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u206	Minister, you said we had to think about these numbers that you mentioned earlier. Yes, but I would like to point out that the scholarship, although we call it a social correction today, is intended for families - when we talk about state scholarships or social scholarships or republics, however you wish - to those families that are either socially weaker or socially weak families. I hope you agree with me in this regard. Therefore, it is not appropriate to compare the data in this way. This is about helping the country, and I say, thank God we have a well-developed social assistance system. We have heard how much this law in the budget increases funds, specifically for the wider area, a broad area of scholarship, but on the other hand it is necessary to take into account the fact that recently, a month or two ago, the Minister, Mrs Cotmanova, has said that despite the great economic growth that you like to remind, despite the great economic growth in Slovenia, more and more people are living on the basis of social contributions or assistance. Minister, I hope you will nod me in this part, because this statement can also be found at the Slovenian Press Agency. So, don't fool around! That is why I ask you, also on behalf of the large families, for which you have taken such a strong stand under the Social Protection Act, the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. You know, with this law, you're gonna hurt them. What you gave them there, you're gonna take here now. Is this policy really fair, good?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u207	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Madam Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u208	According to recent data from the Centre for Social Work, the number of recipients of financial social assistance has decreased from 62 to 52 000, resulting in a decrease in unemployment as well. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And these are the last numbers. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The word has a Member of the Breda Pecan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u210	Thank you. Very briefly. I consider this increase in the grant funds to be a direct contribution to the development of the Slovenian economy. Without staff, we will never have a successful economy, and these scholarships enable young people to be educated. And the other thing I'd like to say is that when we're talking about populism and persuasion, I think it's this particular debate that's meant to make one [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] One way to convince another is to accept what individual parliamentary groups are proposing to us for admission and, therefore, I think it is wise to listen, not just to speak. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u211	Thank you. This is also the purpose of the parliamentary debate. But we're opening another round of reports. Here you go, please. Member Pavel Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. I was somewhat disturbed by what the minister said, or quite correctly from the point of view of bureaucratic powers, and so on, that the scholarships are social corrective. I'd say there's a difference in our understanding and perception of scholarships. Of course, I do not take them as social remedies, but as an investment in human capital, as an investment in knowledge, in knowledge, in creativity, in the conditions under which, in fact, in terms of a long-term investment in the future, we would create better conditions for these people and, of course, for the entire Slovenian society and thus for the economy. In this sense, I think it's all our misunderstanding and all our misunderstandings. If we looked at scholarships as investment in human capital in knowledge and creativity, we wouldn't be arguing for three or four hours about a minimum issue such as whether we should accept these two amendments or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u213	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u214	I'd just fix it. Social transfer is just a state scholarship. For the talented, we have Zois' scholarships, where there is no social censorship, and it is not only about state scholarships that we refer to as social transfer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u216	Thank you for your word. I would agree with a respected colleague in front of me who was talking about a scholarship from another point of view. I agree, but there's something else I'd like to say. Today we have really talked about things that may mean nothing in the whole matter. And here we actually lost sight of the forest because of the tree. I also wanted to say something similar to what my colleague Sok said when I thought about it or should I sign up. In fact, if we get about 10,000 more scholarships, that's the whole point. Everything else is in a different way. However, it is also important how these funds will be allocated. But what I wanted to say is: What do we want to pursue, what are the goals or objectives of the scholarship? Certainly, it is to allow for as many young people as possible, given their interest in the school they want to enroll in. That's one. But at the same time, following the needs of the labour market. Why did I say that? Today it is in one of the Slovenian newspapers, and I will not do commercials for one, the whole page on employment, problems and scholarships. And I'll talk about the scholarship. And if you read this, all those who spoke about how young people should return to their environment, even to the countryside, will find answers in fact there. But what is it? There is a discrepancy between the offer, that is, between job seekers and needs. Why? Because our policy of direction was wrong. And today, if you remember what kind of tie it started when the two Education and Higher Education Ministers wanted to present a little problem, the subject of employment, when they wanted to present where the big needs are and where the job is possible. It was even a tie, because it went towards the natural professions, not the social profession. And now allow me to provide you with data for the two regions that are considered to be the most underdeveloped and we have talked about them today. It is a pomurish statistical region where at this time there are job seekers 8.162. Some companies offer a large number of jobs that can be filled immediately and not only with the lowest level of education, even with the highest level, but simply cannot obtain workers. And just one example: 1,800 unemployed with a higher but inadequate education, they sent a retraining offer to another area, of which only 20 came forward. Now I'm going to ask you, why do we have 1,800 people with higher education who were misdirected? There, in primary school, guidance for the profession is already starting. There are some that we can't redirect and are determined what they're going to study, but there are half of them that could be presented if they were presented where the possibilities are. And allow me, but now we're direct on the scholarship, in Koroška the case is similar. They're looking for a huge number of all kinds of professions, all levels, from the lowest, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth levels, and they can't find them. On the other hand, there are a few thousand unemployed, who are again, of course, mainly sociologists, that I do not read to you. But look what they're gonna do. Thus, for the third time in the autumn, they will call for human resources scholarships from the Koroška Scholarship Schemes to attract young people to make decisions for the region's most promising professions. Here we are. This is said to be not just how we will distribute this cake, but not just if we give 20 million or 25 million more euros for scholarships, we also have to direct them, give them the right information about whether they will take the scholarships, including those who may not know what they would do, but they do not have information about where the greatest job option is. It is said that we can also grant a scholarship to children, and we already know in advance that they will never get a job at all or that they will later have to re-train and re-student for other professions. That is to say, we need to ask ourselves in the whole matter a little bit wider and perhaps in the right direction already in primary school, what children are going to decide about, what professions. And that has to do with the scholarship, and so on. Smart countries or state institutions do not work by doing propaganda for certain professions, but they do grant scholarships for professions with which children will never be able to get a job when they graduate from school. We also need to say something about it, or we can imagine how these things are. But in the past, there must have been something wrong with professional guidance, and I don't think it's all clear now. But these two ministers I mentioned, they must have gone in the right direction, and the storm of opposition was way out of line. I'd say there should have been a storm of opposition before. Why didn't the previous ministers do it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u217	Thank you very much. I'm opening a new application circuit. Here you go. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Well, Minister, if you'll excuse me, I really don't want to be offensive or rude, but you've re-arranged the data, or you haven't told them in full when you wanted to answer my question or my implementation. You mentioned and again praised that the number of recipients of financial social assistance had decreased. If I'm not mistaken, if I got the number from 62,000 to 52,000 correctly, yes, but at the same time you forgot to say that the law has strengthened the conditions for obtaining financial social assistance, that in fact the person under the new law is significantly easier to lose money social assistance. On the other hand, you did not make clear how many people who received money social assistance actually got a job, so they went to active employment, nor did you tell how many people who lost money social assistance were at home without the help of the state. And last but not least, you have forgotten to give information, but you always forget it when you mention how many unemployed people have decreased in our country, and people working in the Employment Office know that data or people are being erased or transferred from one record to another, and even though the unemployed are not being kept as unemployed. You know, that's the problem. And when I said earlier that there was an increasing number of recipients of social transfers or social assistance, I was not talking exclusively about financial social assistance. Allow me to quote the contribution: "Without social contributions today, 42% of Slovenians would live on the brink of poverty." This is a matter of concern, so I say that it is not fair to speak and delete social transfers and therefore I say it is not fair that you have included everything and actually damaged people living on these contributions, social transfers. I would therefore like to stress once again, Minister, because it is not necessary for the amendments to be adopted in a third form or in a third reading, but insofar as these two amendments are supported today, the article remains open and it is possible to find a common, prudent, constructive solution that will not go in the direction of harming one or, in particular, that will not mean a worse state than what is in force today.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate in conjunction with Article 16 and the two amendments of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. However, I am putting to the debate Article 24 and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members and the amendment of the Group of Members: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. I'm asking you to sign up. I give my word to Ambassador Paul Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u220	Thank you very much. There's not a lot of people reported. I would only explain our amendment and context. This is the third paragraph of Article 24, which deals with Zois’ scholarships and this third paragraph, as was amended by the committee responsible for the parent body, says that the recipients of Zois’ scholarship in a particular area of social life must prove the extraordinary achievements of each school year or year of study. What does that mean? This simply means that Zois' scholarships are granted in principle for only one year. And every year, you have to retrain for these scholarships and, of course, submit all your study activities just to achieve these extraordinary achievements, to prove yourself and to be able to keep this scholarship. I believe that those who come to Zois' scholarships, say in colleges, have already proven themselves in high school with excellent grades, of course, with works and achievements that go beyond the usual student knowledge and behavior and that they are judged as gifted, promising people who need to be given such an opportunity and such a scholarship. And it certainly makes no sense for them, even in view of what they are studying, to demand such achievements each year. And this can not even be done in some study areas. And so, of course, it can even happen that this ability and creativity will only be turned into the pursuit of the right achievements and, of course, disregards real, quality, content studies and so on. Therefore, I believe that the most important criterion of selection for the winners of this scholarship is their past success, and then we must give them this opportunity, which they should also use and use during these years and, of course, justify this scholarship. It is clear that if they miss the general conditions of their scholarship, these things do not belong to them anymore. We therefore simply propose in our Group that this third paragraph be simply deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u221	Thank you, too. Anyone else would like to discuss in connection with Article 24 and the two amendments that come from different proposers? Comrade Aloys Sok. I'm going to open the procedure because I can see that you're more interested. Here you go. Member Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. I cannot agree with this amendment of unrelated Members. The one who receives Zois's scholarship must achieve an average estimate every year so that he can keep the scholarship. Otherwise, he was able to get this scholarship, and then, of course, he worked with that minimum. But this scholarship is meant for those students who want something more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Member Mitja Slavinec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u224	Thank you so much for saying that. So, an extraordinary achievement - an extraordinary achievement is something that is certainly the result of a one-time event, once a year, and I do not think it is right that this one-off event, once a year for a student to be happy or not, can then devalue and also destroy the results of an annual effort and work, which is reflected in the average assessment. It is a matter of measurement and each measurement is burdened with error, including measurement of knowledge, which in this case is and if this measurement is only one, the error is so great. As a result, I find it even more unacceptable that every year they have to prove this unique achievement. As a physicist, I would probably have decided in high school to compete for state physics, a future physicist then, and I would certainly have done the same as I did, because from my own experience I spoke about this competition, to prepare for this competition, but let's say that on the way from Murska Sobota to Ljubljana, where these competitions were usually, according to the situation on the pomurje roads at this point, a traffic accident and a competition for objective reasons could not be involved. And look, I'd lose Zois' scholarship despite meeting all the other criteria. It's not right. This provision is certainly not right, it is not life and by such definitions we do not do the service to students, we do not do the service to the best students - those who are potential candidates for receiving Zois' scholarship, as I continue to claim that Zois' scholarship should not be just money, it should not be just financial value, but of course it must also be a certain recognition, last but not least honor to the best and also motivate them to try to achieve something above average in school and, of course, to be a model and motivate others to realize that the evaluation is also higher than 6. A single event, achieving a one-time event also depends on the field of study, on the direction of study, if we are talking about students now. In some study areas, there are many more of these options than in others. They are thus more easily achieved than others, but I point out that, at the time of the study of these options, they are significantly less, as well as institutionalised forms of competitions and everything else, one article higher than the above is significantly lower than in secondary schools, and that is why this is already an even more exclusionary criterion, which, as so far as is concerned, should be one of the criteria that would allow the best to obtain this scholarship, which shows their excellence, their superiority in one particular area and, of course, in this area, we can expect later, after the completion of the study, leadership and in that area to achieve the best results. This is why it is important to encourage students, students, already at the time of the study, to choose their own territory and to strive to be among the best in this area, but we must do this life and we cannot expect anyone to be a state champion every year and only one of the generations can be a state champion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Member Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u226	Thank you, Chairman. About Zois' scholarships, and about the conditions for their acquisition and preservation, we talked for quite some time in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, as well as in the coalition. First of all, we and the Government have decided not to introduce income censorship in Zois' scholarships, because we believe that knowledge is independent of the financial situation, and in our view this solution would have the wrong consequences. At the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have also committed ourselves to preparing a proposal for today's meeting, which will be clear and clear. With this amendment, we want to make it clear that the exact conditions for receiving and maintaining Zois's scholarships are written. So the conditions are that a student in the final grade of the primary school has an average rating of at least 4.5 or more to be identified as a gifted student or has an average rating of at least 4.1 or more in secondary school, and has also been identified as a talented student, or that a graduate with exceptional general success, or that he has an average rating of at least 8.5 or more in high school or higher, and that he is ranked among the best 5% of students in his generation, depending on the school year. With the amendment of articles 24 and 48 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups, we have achieved that it is now clearly stated that the conditions are mutually exclusive, which in practice means that, for example, a student with an average achieved does not have to achieve an extraordinary achievement in a particular area of social life. So it's an alternative that allows students and students to receive Zois' scholarship when they reach one of the conditions. The student can thus receive Zois' scholarship even if he does not have the average, does not have an extraordinary achievement, but is ranked among the top 5% students in his generation, which will increase the possibility of obtaining Zois' scholarship mainly to students of those student programs that are harder or where students' efforts to achieve the average to obtain Zois's scholarship are more difficult to reach. Personally, I think that this proposal will be very well accepted among students, for example, law, medicine, engineering and other programmes that are known among students as difficult programmes. So, I myself will support the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the DeSUS to Article 24, as well as the amendment of the same parliamentary groups to Article 48, as it is a matter of mutual coordination that is in favour of Zois's fellows. And in the end, the intent of this law is to increase the number of scholarships, which consequently means reducing the years of study and reducing student work. I am convinced that this is the interest of every government, and this government also expresses this and thus expresses its concern for young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u228	Thank you. It is true, after hours and hours of very strange debate on the Committee, that this article has been corrected, as has now been explained by Mr Pojbič, and as has now been proposed in some form by the coalition groups. That's what you call being accepted, someone's scholarship won't be lost in the future if they can take into account their average rating or their extraordinary achievement. While this remarkable achievement in the basic law has been a major step forward, we know that these remarkable achievements, as recorded, are not as easily attainable and profitable as they may seem. Because if that were the case, and if not one of the other amendments proposed under Article 24, they would not be accepted, then it would also result in a situation so logical that, for example, Einstein, who did not have a sufficient average assessment, could not get a scholarship because exceptional achievements would remain as measured as they are in the bill. In fact, extraordinary achievements are somewhat difficult to prove, for example, if you look at them in the field of artistic activities or professional publications, which this article also requires as one of the criteria, it is not easy to obtain. The student may be included in the exhibition if organised. It is organized, for example, and it has the option of four years and the award of its products, so much less. Nevertheless, I believe that the form proposed by us is better than that proposed by the coalition Members. By acknowledging that this also eliminates any confusion that has meant either one or the other or that the examination and validation of the Zois scholarship can take into account either the average assessment or the exceptional achievements in all categories. It is necessary to say, however, that if nothing is adopted, if nothing is changed, then there is a great danger that the fellows, who are, say, extremely gifted for a particular area, cannot or cannot prove in the course of the process - there has already been a talk about this today - to the point that they cannot get to the competition, because it is also possible, then the scholarship is lost and there is no logic here. That's why the only logic is that it's much better to keep it out of the way. I think that every school year means a great deal, I will say, catching papers and proving my success, but because I am aware of the reality and reality of the National Assembly, I understand that some compromise will be reached there, and I welcome that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u229	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Nobody.]] Then I conclude the debate on Article 24 and the amendments of the two groups of Members. However, we are moving or am putting to the debate Article 48 and the amendment of the four groups of Members: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. I'm asking you to sign up. A colleague of Paula Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u230	In our amendment, we have proposed that the article on retirement should be amended to allow that, if there is a reason for parenting to rest, we should suggest that, insofar as both parents agree, this peacemaking applies to both parents not only one independent of who receives a parental allowance under another legislation. We suggest that if we come from the fact that the families of extra-marital communities are the same, that both parents, in this case, are, say, a student responsible for raising children to share a job, then it is pointless to tie this status to the only one who has a parental allowance, but probably both, if they both agree. We therefore propose that you accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u231	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, which is in half an hour, at 16.50. Until then, I'm adjourning the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u232	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please take your seats. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of the voting apparatus before the vote. As you know, there must be a yellow light on the right side of the card. We continue to end the 21st item of the agenda - the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the public sector wage system. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 44. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and thus the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment was not adopted in the second reading, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. On the basis of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would not have led to any non-compliance with the law. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 13. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to break the 22nd item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on judicial service. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendments were tabled in the second reading, no third reading amendments could be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised because of amendments adopted on the home labour body. That is why we are moving to the vote. Explanation of voice. I am opening the procedure for explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go, please. Bogdan Barovich has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u233	Thank you. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, let me say that we will oppose this law. Not so much because, like the former from unconstitutional, we have transformed it into a constitutional one, much more because of the procedure. In the explanatory memorandum, the Slovenian National Party made clear its opinion, including the professional court circles, that one part, i.e. this part, which is linked to the payroll, should be dealt with following an urgent procedure, but that changes affect more deeply and therefore affect the depth of the law, should be dealt with in accordance with the ordinary procedure. Since it is forcing, that is to say, to change something that is unconstitutional into constitutional, which is in mind, even though it is bad and it interferes with the depth - that is, the exploitation of this material, the constitutional prohibition - and we are now using this to quickly adopt a law, we will oppose the law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. 73 Members and Members were present and 44 were voted in favour, while 28 members opposed the law. (There were 44 votes in favour.)(against 28.) I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue the 23rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Defence We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments were not tabled in the second reading, no third reading amendments could be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 19. (The vote was 48.)(against 19.) I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue to end the 24th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the State Prosecutor's Office We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments were not tabled in the second reading, amendments cannot be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the law would not be inconsistent with the law on grounds of amendments adopted on the home working body. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 20. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. However, we continue to end the 13th item of the agenda - secondly, the proposal for a law on scholarships. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. For the first time, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group to Article 13. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 35. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 16. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 34. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Excuse me! The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of Article 16 of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 41. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 24. In doing so, I remind you that, if the amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 to the same Article becomes irrelevant. But I'm asking you to apply for an explanation of vote. Here you go, please. Member Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go. Member Miran Potch has the word, please. Member Pavel Gantar has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Since I believe that you may reject the amendment of the Really Group and accept the amendment of the coalition, I would like to remind you that this amendment of the coalition is, in fact, wrong or unaware of the reality of my conduct. In fact, as I know, Minister Zver has abolished the average rating, and, of course, now you will not be able to apply the criteria of the average evaluation in the opinion that someone or receive this scholarship. Therefore, this average estimate is not valid. He also has no formal status in colleges, so of course I propose and call on Members and Members to accept our first amendment, which is a condition that Einstein could never be Zois's scholarship, but they do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u236	Thank you, too. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, a colleague, Franc Žnidaršič, will present his position. [[You're giving up.]] Member Geza Juban has the floor. [[You're giving up.]] We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 24. Note, the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same applicants to Article 48(1). If the amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 48 under Article 1 shall be irrelevant. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 1. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 48. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 48. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments and thus conclude my second reading of the bill. In the following I give the floor to the Minister, Mrs Cotman, if she wishes to make a proposal for a further hearing procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u237	Thank you very much. I propose that this meeting be held with a third consideration of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u238	So we are moving on to a decision on that bill. The decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. Procedural proposal? At this point, we are facing a procedural proposal made by the Minister in her proposal or hearing, and we will now decide on it. As I said, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. A decision will not be taken if more than one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 14. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law on Thursday, 21 June of this year, in the framework of the votes. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments adopted and qualified candidates will be able to table amendments by the beginning of the third reading of the bill at the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. However, we are moving on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda - to the vote on the procedural proposals of Members and Members under the question of Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Saš Pečet, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next regular session on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of Saš Pečet, on the sale of state property in real form. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 28 votes in favour, 46 votes in favour. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with Mr Jožef Školč's proposal, the assembly will decide on the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next regular session on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to Mr Jožef Školč's question on the urgent procedure of the consideration of draft laws. We're voting. There are 72 Members present, with 26 votes against 46. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana M. Szvikla, the assembly will decide on the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next regular session on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of mag. Milan M. Squeaky in connection with the elimination of the consequences of corruption. I'm opening a procedure to explain my voice. Here's to the application. There's a MEP with a word. Milan M. Squeakle. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I hope that Members and Members of the ruling coalition will, above all, support the procedural proposal. This procedural proposal will give this opportunity, which some of you have discussed in preparation for this meeting, when Mr Janez Janša will answer, in the context of the questions sent and the answers, the evidence of clientism, corruption and, in this regard, the suspected damage to state property. Of course, we didn't get a satisfactory answer yesterday. Mr President of the Government could not tell what the Government would do to address the negative consequences of corruption. In the evening he spoke more about it, he said that some had chosen money in his client and others had chosen the program. So, it is probably the issue of the former believer of the government, Mr Jožet P. Damian, that I quote: "It is important to me, if this dispute arises," the dispute between Mr Janez Janša and the former secretary of state, "now escalates whether certain corruption cases have been revealed or some may have been claimed to have occurred." You have the opportunity to confirm the procedural proposal to give the President of the Government the opportunity to respond to the findings of the Secretary of State and not only by means of a so-called threatening letter, where he says that the data from the SDV and the Owl files will also be used, is now simply threatening. The President of the Government is responsible for the disappearance of some 100 million euros, 200 million at Mercator, up to 200 million at the Slovenian steel industry, in helicopter transport and so on. It is therefore appropriate to support the procedural proposal and give the President of the Government the opportunity to respond to the allegations of acts which the Secretary of State says are not true, even if it is two years ago, two years ago, she will write the minutes where these affairs began. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] So we can go to the vote? I am opening a procedure for the declaration of reasons to the vote on my own behalf. Here you go. Member Branko Grimes has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u241	Thank you for your word. I must say that I am very pleased with the words of Mr Squeak, because together with the foreign political reputation of Slovenia, the unheard-of mishap that his colleague Rob has had, they have been putting on the lie that red thread that has been dragging for the past few months in the reporting of most media, if the LDS has been aggressive, arrogant and ugly, and the SD has been calm, good and wonderful. Yes, where do these two gentlemen sit today - in the SD Group, where they carried all their extraditions, the negative extradition of LDS aggression, criticism, creating affairs. And I must say, from this point of view, their performance in the last days is a real refreshment, and especially for Slovenia it is very instructive. Good morning, Slovenia! Of course I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Comrade Squeakle, I'm not giving you an explanation for your vote. I just opened the procedure. I don't want to open the debate, so I won't give you my word. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mitja Slavinc, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Mr Karl Erjavac, Minister of Defence, to the question of Mr Mitje Slavinc, on the mobile military hospital role 2. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice, Dr Lovra Šturm, to the question of Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš on the establishment of family courts. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. (For the vote was 29.)(against 46.) I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mrs Lovtijar Bebler, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice, Dr Lovr Šturm, to Mrs Darje Lavtizar Bebler's question on the reasons for the amendments to the Law on Justice and the Law on Lawyerry. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 46. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Boštjan Zagorec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Mr Janez Sponik to the question of the post-mail question of Mr Boštjan Zagorec regarding the rehabilitation of the Gudro Caves. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 46. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mrs Majda Širca's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the reply of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, to Mrs Majda Širca's question on the Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 45. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Srečko Friends, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next regular meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, to Mr Sreč Friend's question on the reasons for changing the procedures for the sale of KAD and SOD's share. I am opening the application procedure on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go, please. My friend Milan Squeakle. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u243	In my name, I will only say that I appreciate the need to support this debate. This is a debate on the withdrawal of the country from the economy and on the non-implementation of the Public Finance Act. The provisions of the Public Finance Act clearly state how KAD and SOD are to sell this, so the relevant provisions of the statutes of the SOD and the KAD are also adopted, it is of course public procedures, it is transparency - this is not the case. This creates major potential damage, especially for small shareholders, and, as we have seen in cases, also obvious abuse. That's what Andriana Starina Kosem is talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Gantar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mr Janez Sponik to the question by Dr Paul Gantar concerning the internal review of the rehabilitation of the beach in Logo under Mangart. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we're moving on to 34. PERIOD OF THE DAY, A MANAGEMENT-VELIVAL MATTERS. Under this item, the Assembly will consider: firstly, the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia; secondly, four proposals by the Judicial Council for the election to the judicial function; thirdly, two proposals for a decision amending the decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia; fourthly, two proposals for a decision appointing a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council pursuant to Article 17, paragraph 7, paragraph 6, of the Law on RTV of Slovenia. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. As we say, we are moving for the first time to the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, proposed by letter on 8 June this year to the National Assembly that he appoint Dr. Mark Kranjšek as Governor of the Bank. In this regard, I inform you that you have received a letter from the President of the State. I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Ms Magdalena Tovornik, for a further explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u245	Have a good day! Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today you will decide whether the candidate Dr Marko Kranjec, proposed by the President of the Republic of Slovenia as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, is suitable for carrying out this difficult and important task for the country. Dr Marko Kranjec is one of seven experts invited by President Janez Drnovšek to run for Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. As the procedure for the appointment of the Governor has lasted for several months, I should remind you that the President of the Republic of Slovenia first issued a public call for candidates. Among the two proposals received, he selected the candidate who had more experience and had already proved to be one mandate to run this institution, right during the period when Slovenia successfully introduced the new euro monetary unit. Unfortunately, the President's first proposal, candidate Mitja Gaspari, did not receive sufficient support from the National Assembly. With the choice of mags. The Gaspari of the two candidates registered has been legally terminated by a public call or invitation to tender in accordance with the rules. However, since the President wanted to propose a new candidate as soon as possible, he decided to select candidates, not to repeat the public call, but to use another, but equivalent legal possibility of finding a candidate among the highly professional and politically neutral experts in this area. The procedure for obtaining candidates was transparent, public and above all legal, in accordance with the Bank of Slovenia Act. Notwithstanding the fact that the Act does not provide for prior consultations with the leaders of the parliamentary groups or with the leader of the coalition, the President of the Republic carried out them for all those candidates who accepted the candidacy - they were four. In the case of mags. Mitja Gaspari and Dr. Jožet Mencinger consulted Mr. Janez Janša's coalition leader in the case of Andrej Rant and Dr. Mark Kranjc. Dear Members, Dr Marko Kranjec is the third candidate proposed by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect this National Assembly. He is a candidate for economic sciences, specialising in the field of finance and public finances. By 1990, he was mainly involved in economic research and counselling. As a macro-economist, he was employed in the OECD, based in Paris, at the World Bank in Washington, D.C., as Minister of Finance of the First Demos Government in 1990-1991 and later as for six years as Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. During the period 1998-2002, when Slovenia carried out very important coordination for the entry into the European Union, he was the Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union in Brussels. After his term of office, he returned to Ljubljana and acted as a professor at the university. The rich knowledge of Dr. Mark Kranjec has been exploited by many international organisations, since he worked as a consultant for the OECD, the World Bank, FAO, the International State Fund and other organisations. The areas of its activities were very different, from finance, tax policy to project analysis, health economy, agriculture and could still be listed. His broad knowledge and experience must also be the reason for his invitation to the Strategic Economic Development Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of which he is a member. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, therefore Dr Mark Kranjc, proposes for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and expects your valuable support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u246	Thank you, too. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. My colleague, Jože Tanko, will give his position to the SDS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u247	Your Honor! First of all, something about the ruling of the National Assembly, which requested clarification from the President of the National Assembly in accordance with Article 107 of the Constitution and Article 223 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The President or this request was made primarily because there were a number of complications in proposing and voting on candidates. There have been a number of complications between the proposer and those who decide in the National Assembly. The fact is, the President of the Republic has started the process of proposing candidates for governor sufficiently early, which is six months before the end of the term of office, as it all appears, and this procedure will be completed three months after the deadline. This is said to take us about nine months to get the Governor of Banka Slovenije. As already mentioned by the representative of the Office, two candidates, the Governor, the Governor-in-Office, and one of the candidates who actually surprised him were Dr. Boštjan Jazbec. It must be said that until now, Governor Gaspari had been a highly favoured candidate for the President of the Republic, but he did not receive support in the secret vote and then followed the criticisms of both the National Assembly, the parliamentary groups and the National Assembly were fully blamed for failure. In our view, it is entirely unjustifiable. An even greater surprise or greater surprise for the Slovenian public was the proposal of the next candidate for governor, Mr Rant. It was a surprise for politics, for the public, for the profession, for the journalism. And although Mr Rant has been a vice-governor for years, none of these have recognized him as a candidate for governor. The vote was also appropriate. The public wondered why the President of the Republic completely ignored another candidate, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec. No one challenged his professionalism, no formal education, no one found anything objectionable in his career, no one attributed him to politics. And we didn't get any official explanation on that. Apparently, his only weakness was his youth. So, a virtue on which the liberals used to wager so much. Following the failures or failures of its candidates, the President of the Republic announced that there would be an institutional crisis, that each of the next candidates would be less favourable or acceptable than the predecessor, that Europe was surprised by the decisions of the National Assembly not to propose any more candidates. He later changed his mind, gave a written message that he would propose that we should be able to elect him at the April session, but the proposal was neither for April nor for the May session, which is why we decided to ask the president why all these complications were coming. The coalition, as well as other parliamentary groups, have repeatedly proposed that the president should have a discussion with the parliamentary groups, which was somehow ignored, but some others who do not directly participate in the decision-making process were informed of these proposals. I think it is commendable that the independent branches of government are informed among themselves, but I think that the key communication should take place between the applicant and those who decide on these proposals. At the same time, constitutional lawyers have repeatedly pointed to an inappropriate solution, an inadequate solution by which the constitutional powers of the President have been extended by individual laws. These extensions, this extension of powers also brings problems and complications, especially when communication is inadequate. Some other European countries that have similar arrangements as Slovenia has - although ours has been summarised - have the role and powers of the President of the Republic set out differently and in no country comparable to the country has the President of the Republic as many human resources initiatives as we have with us and there are not so many problems and complications in these matters. This regime, which we have here, is in fact special and has built-in mechanisms for causing conflicts. I believe that these recent complications would require consideration of how to improve the systemic and legal conditions for Slovenia to improve rather than undermine its international reputation. I think that this integration role, not the role of the President, is significantly more important. The request adopted at the May session must also be understood solely in this light. The National Assembly is the institution that decides on important matters and the National Assembly is charged with the task of assessing and deciding, both on the proposals of the Government and on the proposals of the President of the Republic, and the National Assembly must carry out this task in its best interests. However, whatever the decision is, this decision is always a decision of the National Assembly. Of course, I cannot go beyond the explanation sent by the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia before a decision was taken at the National Assembly. Thus, although the President later wrote in his letter that the decision was somewhat unclear, more or less to all in the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and also to the President, it was crystal clear what this proposal was about - both in terms of human resources procedures and also in terms of these legislative or legal bases for these matters. In short, this approach, the President's response in this light is not exactly appropriate, could have acted differently and could not have repeated a letter sent by an office which was not even asked about it or for communication with the National Assembly. However, the fact is that this request has accelerated the search for the candidate. We have now come up with a proposal that has a lot of support in the National Assembly. It should also be said that the President of the Republic has also made a significant change in his way of communicating with the National Assembly. I think that this method is significantly more appropriate, significantly better and we have a result now ahead of us. According to our opinion, Dr. Marko Kranjec is a candidate with excellent domestic and foreign references. He was laying the foundations of the Slovenian currency, he was very much involved in laying the foundations for the tax reform adopted by the government. By the way, this reform gives excellent results, which some do not like, but thank God it is. I must also say that Dr Kranjec has participated in a number of projects, including abroad as a foreign consultant, as a carrier of individual tasks, and also has international experience on this side. However, I must say that we expect that with Dr Mark Kranjc's arrival at the head of the Bank of Slovenia, there will also be a substantial increase in attention to the supervisory functions and other tasks of the Bank of Slovenia, that the functioning of the banking system will be more cost-effective and reliable, that it will also be cheaper and that concrete action will also be taken against the perpetrators of irregularities and illegality in the banking system. Of course, we also expect a much less elevated attitude towards the National Assembly, which by law must be made aware of the functioning of the banking system and also Banka Slovenije. He has our full support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u248	Thank you very much. My colleague, Miran Potrč, will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u249	Mr Vice-President, Madam Senior Adviser in the Cabinet of the President of the Republic, colleague and colleague! The Group of Social Democrats will propose to elect Dr Mark Kranjc as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. His professional references are correct, objectively presented in a written proposal submitted to us by Dr. Janez Drnovšek, President of the Republic of Slovenia, and were also explained today in the introductory explanation. Mr Marko Kranjec is an expert on the Bank of Slovenia, he has worked as an expert in many international institutions, he is a professor of economic science in the field of public finances, he was also our political representative in the Council of Europe and in the European Community. It would be difficult to find reasons why we could vote against it. In doing so, let us say that Mr President of the Republic has also chosen quality proposals before the candidate and before Dr Mark Kranjc's candidacy. Two of those we had the opportunity to vote on in the National Assembly were supported by the Group of Social Democrats; this is Mr Gaspari and Mr Rant's candidate. However, in our view and in the current assessment, which we do not change because they were not by year, by taste and political affiliation close to the ruling coalition, they did not receive the required majority of the votes. The Group of Social Democrats will not use today's moment to discuss the history of almost six months of proposing and electing the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. It is our wish to finally, on the basis of the concrete and quality proposal of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia today, to choose other issues that arise in this regard, including those related to systemic solutions and the way in which legal provisions are applied under the procedure, to allow for another opportunity, even though we expected Members and Members of the Social Democrats to clarify or answer the President of the Republic's request for an explanation at the present stage of the proposal, to appoint candidates, in particular so that the ruling coalition can justify its conduct so far. Anyone who has followed the course will know that this apology cannot be appropriate. I hope, however, that the objectives will be achieved today and that the Republic of Slovenia will have its Bank of Slovenia Governor, who will also participate as a member of the European Central Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u250	Thank you, too. Ambassador Rudolf Moge will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u251	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Mrs. Magdalena Truck, ladies and gentlemen of the House, a lovely greeting! We are convinced in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club that the President's proposal is appropriate, logical and good, so we will be happy to support it. Dr Marko Kranjec is a suitable candidate mainly because he is a politically independent candidate who has the necessary expertise to run the Bank of Slovenia and was a vice-governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia between 1991 and 1993. Dr Marko Kranjec also contributed greatly to the financial and economic independence of Slovenia and to the introduction of the Tolar. In the new circumstances, the importance and role of fiscal policy is substantially greater and the role of the Bank of Slovenia has been changed. Its primary role is control, its primary role is analytical, and that is what Banka Slovenije does, and this must be done by Banka Slovenije if we want a successful economic policy in Slovenia. As an expert in the field of public finances, the Bank of Slovenia can contribute greatly to the functioning of the Bank of Slovenia, and as a representative of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Central Bank can have a significant impact on the state of European finances because of its knowledge and also because of its experience from international organisations such as the World Bank, the International Fund and the OECD. The appointment of the new governor of Slovenia is accompanied by the International Monetary Fund and international credit rating agencies such as the "Standard and... Poor's", which also recorded in the country's credit ratings the fact that the former governor was not elected. It is therefore very important for the reputation and public opinion in the financial world that Slovenia finally gets the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia after entering the euro area. Unfortunately, the actions of this coalition have already clearly damaged Slovenia's reputation in the financial world. In order to restore the confidence of Slovenes and Slovenes, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in financial institutions, we propose to support the independent candidate Dr. Kranjec. The LDS is supporting him and will vote unanimously in favour of his election. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At the end of the saga on the election of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and in the light of the expressed will of the parliamentary groups, I can add the following. When we went to prom, we wholeheartedly sang, "Gaudeamus igitur, iuvenes dum sumo" So we rejoice while we are young. When we begin the vote, we can make it easier to inspire "Gaudeamus igitur, habemus candidate" - "We are happy, we have a candidate". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u252	Thank you, too. My colleague, Jožef Horvat, will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenije. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished Mrs. Tovornikova, are also warmly welcomed on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. With one good will and with a good mood, I begin this presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group, because after unnecessary complications, an important story is taking place for Slovenia. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides in Article 152 for Slovenia to have a central bank. In its operation, this bank shall be independent and directly responsible to the National Assembly. The Central Bank is established by law. The Governor of the Central Bank shall be appointed by the National Assembly. The majority in Parliament is the one that the majority of citizens in parliamentary elections express confidence in. This not only means a session of parliamentary seats in this Chamber, but also a great responsibility. Among other things, the Constitution imposes upon us the responsibility to appoint a Governor and the Central Bank directly corresponds to the National Assembly. The introduction is to be understood. Slovenia is the only young member of the European Union to have managed to meet the Maastricht criteria and take over the euro. This should make us all more impressed, proud, and European recognition, and especially national self-confidence. Who's got the credit? Today certainly is not the time to work as a ranger of people or institutions that are most responsible for this truly great success of our country. The international visibility of Slovenia must also be strengthened through the operation of the Bank of Slovenia and its Governor in the euro area. As of 1 January 2007, the Bank of Slovenia has started a new period of substance: the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia acts in the world of governors of the European Central Bank as a person of his own self-confidence and personal integrity. The Bank of Slovenia must play a more important role in the regulation and in particular in the control of the Slovenian financial sector. This must be clear in particular from the point of view of the responsibility for establishing financial stability in the economy. Banka Slovenije is probably the only rare national banks in the euro area and wider, which in our view does not have sufficiently developed research activities. It is crucial for the substantive issues of the participation of the Bank of Slovenia and its Governor in the bodies of the European Central Bank. Even more important is the role of detailed analytical knowledge in establishing the necessary financial discipline and coordination with economic policy makers in the country. Due to the smallness of the Slovenian space, coordination and communication between the Bank of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is essential. The Bank of Slovenia has exceptional information capital, which is not used to support the Slovenian financial sector more when entering foreign markets. Even less, concerted action with the Government will play an important role in the economic and political visibility of Slovenia in the international environment due to the changed role of Banka Slovenije in the euro area. We are pleased to have received the candidate of Dr Mark Kranjc, the candidate for Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. His references at home and abroad are extremely rich. First, we remember him as Minister of Finance in Peterlet or Demos' government. We give him great credit for the financial and economic independence of the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenia will still have its experience in operating in the OECD. Let me reiterate that Slovenia has received an invitation to open negotiations for entry into the 30 most developed countries in the world. The tax reform adopted by the National Assembly last year, which is already showing its positive effects, is also the work of Dr Mark Kranjec. In the New Slovenia Group, we have spoken many times in the process of selecting the candidate for Governor of the Bank of Slovenia that the first round of choice for us has not yet been completed. At that time, all of you remember, at the invitation of the President of the State, Mr Gaspari and Dr. Jazbec applied. The president of the country said in the interview that according to his opinion Dr. Jazbec is too young - so much more so because the previous speaker stressed youth. We accept this President's judgment and the President's decision that Dr. Jazbec is too young. This decision has to be respected, although Slovenians and Slovenians have had and have many young people who know the world today. Even in the past, they were known by the world or at least by the former country in which we lived - the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. We were very proud at the time when we had the President of the SFRJ-Slovenian Presidency, very young - and we were also very proud when we had the Governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, Slovenia - relatively young. But I conclude this part, we respect in the New Slovenia Group, we respect the decision of the President of the Republic that Dr. Jazbec is too young to be Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. The views of Dr. Mark Kranjec on saving money spending are very close to the views of New Slovenia. Following a thorough discussion with Mr Kranjec, the New Slovenia Group informed the first public that it would support him, while we remain and wish him much success in a very important function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u254	Thank you, too. Mr Jakob Presečnik will give the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! Mrs. Tovornikov, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposal of the President of the Republic that the National Assembly for the New Governor of the Bank of Slovenia is appointed by Dr Mark Kranjc. Because of our knowledge of the candidate's work so far, we made a positive statement about his candidacy before we discussed the candidate with the President of the Republic, and our decision is unchanged even after the interview or presentation of the candidate in the parliamentary group. On the contrary, we are even more convinced that our decision is right. By entering the euro area, the function of Banka Slovenije is partially altered. The main task is to monitor the banking system, to carry out payment operations smoothly, to cooperate with the European Bank, to cooperate with national banks, especially in our immediate neighbourhood. Our monetary policy will be as successful as the Bank of Slovenia's real actions and as appropriate a country's tax and paid policy. However, a prerequisite for concerted action is, of course, good cooperation between the Bank of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly. The work of Dr Mark Kranjec in international and domestic monetary circles and its merits in the monetary independence of Slovenia provide assurance that Bank of Slovenia's policy and cooperation with other institutions of the country and international financial institutions will ensure adequate economic growth and that Slovenia remains a strong member of the euro area countries. As it is said, the Slovenian People's Party Group will support the candidate for Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr Mark Kranjc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u256	Thank you, too. And Dr. Matej Lahovnik's colleague will give the position of the Group of Non-Related Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! On behalf of our parliamentary group, we will indeed be brief and indeed sail: we will support Dr Mark Kranjc. He has the relevant professional references, enough experience, you won't believe it, but we don't mind that he was a minister in the Demos government, nor does it bother us that he was a member of the Strategic Council in the Janša government. If the expert is good, he is good, and that is why we will really support him in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u258	Thank you very much. I will give the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u259	So, honourable Members, Members, Representative of the President of the Republic of Slovenia! It was not my intention to come forward, especially at these times when I am holding a meeting of the National Assembly, but I would just like to point out some of those, in my opinion, important dimensions or the content that we have witnessed today during this debate or not at the end of the debate in the last six months. Of course, it is right that our country gets a quality candidate, of course it is right that the Republic of Slovenia, especially during the period ahead of us, will acquire the one who will lead the institution called Banka Slovenije. However, it is not my opinion that there are so many bluffs and so many blindings in the entire story, perhaps by the National Assembly, the President of the Republic or vice versa, the President of the Republic in relation to the National Assembly. Several times in the last period has been mentioned mainly by Members and Members, what a poor way of selecting, recording and certifying the candidate for Governor of the Bank of Slovenia we have. But whoever's talking about it, and by my judgment, black, then they can't have peace of mind. The National Assembly has adopted rules, rules have been in force for many years and we all know exactly what the task of whom is; that the President of the Republic is one and that the task of the National Assembly is another; that they are incompatible in the meantime and that no one can interfere in the area of another. Therefore, to speak and to invoke that the procedure itself has led to the fact that the National Assembly and, last but not least, the Republic of Slovenia have been facing this open issue for three, four, six months, is irresponsible, particularly irresponsible, when the one who is leading the most powerful political option in this National Assembly claims to do so. If this were such a big problem, then I would have joined in amending the legislation that lays down these rules. I would also like to point out further what I think has been the content of any group's speeches many times in the last period. We will vote one way or we will vote that way. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia is held in secret, taking place in a cabin where each individual Member goes alone. Therefore, speaking and reading, we are so, you are not so, is irresponsible by those who have given the introductory explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. I believe that a number of you would be surprised if you could see it, but you can't see it, because it is precisely the magic of secret voting in democracy, how individuals voted and because those real actors who opposed the first or second proposal were found. And let me finish by talking about the candidate himself. In the National Party, I assess that we have acted responsibly in the case of Mr Kranjc and we have spoken publicly, but the Member and Members, only after having spoken to him and only after the President of the Republic has even submitted his proposal for a governor. So we did not get ahead of events, as did the vast majority of the parliamentary groups in this national assembly. However, I am pleased and believe that my fellow Members in the Slovenian National Party have also been pleased that we have found ourselves on the content - one that will take place in our country tomorrow, tomorrow and in the next two years, this is the area of bank privatisation. We are pleased that the Governor - if I so already call him or the candidate, if you prefer him - agrees with the idea adopted by the National Assembly in 1994, that is to say that he is talking about the participation of citizens and citizens in the rehabilitation process or in the ownership of previously rehabilitated banks held on behalf of paid or issued bonds. In connection with this story, I must say - and God forbid that anyone understands as an excuse, because in the framework of the Group of Members we do not have to apologize to anyone, not here, anywhere else, for our actions or for our votes - that this was also the reason. Why? I will talk about the institution of the parliamentary group, it has not been positively defined, the institution of the parliamentary group, positively defined until the first proposal, Mr Gaspari, and the second candidate. But in this case, on the basis of the discussions we have had, and in view of the conduct of the powers and duties of the future governor, that he has in his hands that decisive final act on privatisation - which is called the agreement on a qualified share to acquire a certain ownership stake in the framework of the New Maribor Credit Bank, where privatisation will take place - we believe that through such a candidate we can achieve a more transparent privatisation of the New Maribor Credit Bank, and above all past the parked capital of already known persons. As I said, I believe, but I cannot say - I believe that the Member and Members of the Slovenian National Party will give their vote, because they are substantively agreeing on this most important point with the proposed candidate for Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u260	Thank you very much. I thank Mr Saš Pečet and at the same time announce his replacement, as followed by the schedule. Mr. Magg has the word. The Director, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u261	Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrs. Truck! Colleagues and colleagues! Since two representatives of the parliamentary group have just spoken about the coalition's conduct so far on this issue, I would like to point out that this is unfair to our party, which has supported the two previously proposed candidates and has been doing the right thing all the time in the procedures that have been under way to appoint the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. And now to the proposed candidate. Dr Marko Kranjec is no doubt a top expert in his field and is therefore also suitable for us to call him to finally vote on this matter. We will support his candidacy mainly for three reasons: for the first time because he is undoubtedly a third of the quality and capable candidates for this function; for the second time because we respect the institution and ability, the high ability of the President of the State to judge the candidates, and for the third time because it is time to finally get the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and to improve Slovenia's reputation in the international, in particular the European public where we belong. And these are the reasons not to repeat all the other reasons that go in the direction of the candidate's ability - again, I stress that our parliamentary group will properly support it with all four votes of the candidate, although we did not invite him to the interview, we felt that this is not necessary and that we would take time. Our respect has the same proposal and we expect this story to be concluded today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u262	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The esteemed others present! Today we have heard about this: indeed, after months, the saga ends - after months of searching for the Governor of the Central Bank. In this process, many distinguished experts were needlessly exposed to public exposure solely because of, in my opinion, the inappropriate procedure. However, the procedure for proposing the Governor of the Central Bank is not the responsibility of this National Assembly but of the proposer. In this case, he is the President of the State. I'm not gonna say anything new. I'm gonna say it again, as I said on the occasion of one of these candidates. When it comes to the sharing of decision-making powers, some consensus, some agreement, harmonisation of views cannot be reached through the media, through the public, by saying, "This is my proposal, if you do not vote, write down your responsibility." In such a position, I think it is unworthy to set up, especially when it comes to the highest institutions in this country. This process has made it very clear where the inability to negotiate, the inability to coordinate positions, is leading us to. And it is only good that we have finally reached a candidate for whom, in view of these public responses, it is possible to expect unanimous support. This is the only thing that is good in all this process, but all else I think it was very bad that the National Assembly or Members and Members were needlessly exposed to us, even if we have the right to follow the Constitution, which stipulates in Article 152 that the Governor of the Central Bank is appointed by the National Assembly. That's not good. I have never personally, and not my colleague and colleagues, 'controversy' to the President of the way he took it, but he had to be aware that he also took responsibility for these results in an inappropriate way. The second thing I find unacceptable is that the President is not prepared for an opinion that we can read about in many media, to be explained in the National Assembly. Is it possible for him to come under the honor of us, among the elected representatives of the people? Could it have been over Article 107 of the Constitution or over the decisions of this National Assembly? Remember, at our previous meeting, on the basis of Article 107, which speaks of the fact that, at the request of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic has to deliver an opinion on a particular issue, we have adopted a decision. And we have not reached the realization of this conclusion! I hope that's not the case. I also wish that the President of the State would tell us his opinion several times, not through the media, but here, in the National Assembly. Perhaps then such statements as we have witnessed in the past months will no longer be necessary. However, I will support the proposed candidate, not only because of the many of his professional qualities and the personal profile he exhibits, but also because he said in the presentation that the case of the SIB bank, the inadequate sale of the SIB bank and all that had happened in connection with it, there would be no damage if the then management of the central bank, i.e. the Governor, had not issued a decision to allow its sale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u264	Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr Kranjec is President Drnovska's seventh candidate after two candidates were rejected here. I do not think it is necessary to talk about, as the representative of the President of the Republic said, that at least one candidate, Mr Gaspari, had been consulted and supported by the President of the ruling coalition himself. As has been known, the support has failed. It is also known that we then questioned all the good results of the Bank of Slovenia. And then there was another run. And a number of questions came up. Ambassador Miro Petek, 1.3.2007 Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the operation of the NLB branch abroad. Response period - 6. April 2007. There's no answer yet. Ambassador Miro Petek, Government of the Republic of Slovenia, NLB, LHB, Frankfurt, deadline for reply 10.April 2007, no answer yet. Dimitrij Kovačič - NLB business, 16 April 20907, no answer yet. Rudolf Petan - very similar, deadline 19.4., there is still no answer. Member of the Parliament, Mr Černač - 15.3., Government of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to conflicts of interest in the Bank of Slovenia, deadline for reply 20 April 2007, has not yet been answered. Dimitrij Kovačič, Government of the Republic of Slovenia, regarding investigations by Hague prosecutors in some banks in the territory of the former SFRJ - the deadline for responding on 20 April 2007 is not yet answered. I call it Mr. Rant's public execution. Mr. Mencinger showed up. It was also clear to Mr Mencinger that he had no support; to Mr Mencinger, Vice-President of the First Demos Government, of course, to someone who had his views. Mr Veljko Bole, a member of the Council of Banka Slovenije, appeared at a time when Mr Marko Kranjec was also a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia; and with Dr Mark Kranjec, he made many proposals for Banka Slovenije instruments that reduced inflation and brought Slovenia where he is. Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance of the previous government, who carried out the tax reform that provided high tax revenues in 2005 and 2007, the stability of Slovenian public finances, after we fixed the euro rate, and of course ensured that we took over the euro. Finally, Dr. Mrak, negotiator of Slovenia together with Dr. Arhar in 1992-1994, 1994-1996, the negotiator who provided the international financial fortification of Slovenia by resolving the problem of so-called unidentified debt, which, of course, provided long-term relief to Slovenian banks and so on. Six eminent Slovenian economists, technocrats, experts whose characteristic is only one - that they are upright. And Dr. Kranjec, of course, belongs to this group of seven. He's a little older, he's a little self-sufficient, but he's also a principled gentleman. Is someone who, of course, joined Dr. Mencinger's resignation after Mencinger was expelled from the Demos government for some nonsense, and I believe that Dr. Kranjec will be able to be his own, independent, independent Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and in this [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] in the context of this saga of this public execution of individuals is now over. [[...]] I hope that you will confirm Dr. Kranjec and, of course, we will jointly preserve the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u266	Mr. Magg has the word. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u267	I do not intend to debate for long, and I also do not have the habit of having to argue with my coalition colleagues, but I must say that anyone in the proceedings so far is seeking fault with the President, I have to tell him that I am convinced that he has done nothing that is wrong and should not have done anything, and he has done everything he had to do. And that is why today we have a third proposal here that we can vote on. So I think that these procedures and the actions of anyone in return would suggest that we stop the debate, we will make a third choice today, I think it will be successful, and we can conclude with this. In this sense, I understand such discussions, which are always coming back to criticism by the President of the State, as distasteful and inappropriate for the National Assembly and therefore reject them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u268	Mr. Bojan Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As always, this time I will also trust and vote in favour of the election of the President of the Republic. I don't mind the procedure either. I agree with the mag. I'm a gypsy. In doing so, only someone would add that anyone who has made a different decision than the President of the Republic had expected would, of course, find the reasons why he has made a different decision. But to say that the procedure is the reason why you don't confirm someone, but it's kind of funny, at least. Even if the procedure had been carried out, decisions would probably have a similar epilogue to those of previous votes, only if the President of the individual had so decided after the consultation, he would not have suggested, since he would have known earlier that he had no support for this. This is the only option I allow and would also be feasible within this procedure. The arguments why it was enough to vote for the candidate proposed today. None of the arguments against this have been stated, and I really expect that this time we have all said what we think and that the result of the vote will be appropriate. For so far it has not always happened as foretold. Therefore, while the Rules of Procedure allow debates and explanations of vote, it is possible, but what is somehow unnatural, if I can use that term, is that we are first discussing whether we support the candidate or not, and then we are secretly deciding on it in a secret vote. There's this kind of illogicality that I just wanted to point out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u270	Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u271	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. It's good for Slovenia if she gets the governor today, and I'm sure that's what's gonna happen today. As a child, I appreciated the taste and content of candy more than the wrapping and the box and that it is a true principle in life, this story also confirms the governor’s choice. The President of the State has proposed three good candidates. Those who, of course, did not and do not trust him, sought "the hair in the egg" and various reasons for how to discredit the President and his choice politically; that the procedure was not at all wrong to confirm today's case, which I am sure will be a success and that all those who, of course, spoke one, were doing the other to get some satisfaction today. Dr. Marko Kranjec is, of course, a person who enjoys full confidence, as far as the professional public is concerned, is professional, and also has all the personality qualities to be a good governor, and I will gladly support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u272	Thank you. Mr. Miran Potch. [[You're giving up.]] I'm closing the debate. Can I help you? Excuse me. No, no, no. I conclude the debate and move on to the vote. In accordance with Article 37, paragraph 5, of the Bank of Slovenia Act appointing the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Franc Jazbec, Aurelio Juri, Rudolf Moge and Martin Mikolič. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on such a composition of the Commission. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 32 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, a vote will be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clear. In accordance with Article 37, paragraph 5, of the Bank of Slovenia Act, the proposed candidate will be appointed if the majority of all Members and Members vote for him, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will submit the completed voice box to the voting box, which will be in the hall at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I would like you to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 6.30 p.m. and will last until 18.40 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 6.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u273	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our meeting. We are moving on to a closed 34.A point, which is on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia I will read to you the minutes on the outcome of the vote for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 19 June 2007. 77 ballots were distributed, 77 ballots were delivered, 1 ballot was invalid, 76 votes were valid. 74 members voted against by two Members. [[Let's hear it.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, he was elected as Governor of Banka Slovenije Dr Marko Kranjec by the majority of the votes of all Members. I congratulate the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr Mark Kranjec, and wish him a successful job. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposals of the Court of Justice for election to a judicial function. The Council of Justice submitted four proposals to the Assembly for the election of candidates and candidates for judicial office to the courts of the three District Judges and the District Court of Justice in the Illyrian Bistrica and Kranj District Court. The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly and submitted proposals for conclusions. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mr Srečko Ritonje to the District Court of Justice in the Ilirska Bistrica District Court. We're voting. The vote is under way. 60 Members and Members voted for 54 against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Milena Turuk to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. The vote is under way. 59 Members and Members voted for 55 against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Barbara Nerima Pretnar to the District Court in the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. The vote is under way. 61 Members and Members voted for 56 against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Metka Keršmanc to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a representative of users of disabled organisations. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the decision appointing members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 3. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, namely Mr Klaudijo Popat, as the representative of the users. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the decision appointing a member of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to Mrs Majda Shirca to present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u274	I understand we'd probably like to go home, but we went to a referendum because of the question of the composition of the programming world. And because of the way the programming world works and the fact that it has been working for several months, if not nearly half a year, that it lacks three, four members for a long time, we should also imagine. Because we know that in the RTV Slovenia Program Council, people can be named who, with their knowledge, reputation, with achievements in cultural, educational and any other area of social life, help to strengthen the reputation of public RTV Slovenia. Dear colleagues and dear colleagues! Perhaps this subject is of a foreign nature to you. You may have a side character, I can see that you are unconcentrated enough, but I will still allow myself, because my conscience does not allow me not to express our position on the procedure, how four missing cities are filling, which is supposed to strengthen the reputation of public RTV Slovenia, because the reputation needs to be strengthened because it is increasingly bewildered. The complications with the appointment of alternate members are large and continue and persist, calls are repeated. The names offered are becoming less and the credibility of the candidates is decreasing. What, though, is happening in the third invitation to tender? For a period of four years, the Management-Election Commission or the ruling coalition, which no longer needs "the leaf plonk", was confirmed by the candidates, as I said, less and less, for the second time or even third time, by a candidate who did not receive the required majority; as if the President of the State had always proposed the same Governor for the Bank of Slovenia on a new basis after each rejection. The coalition would certainly be angry at why we do not consult or consult and what is going on. Those parliamentary groups that are not in the country's security partnership, we explained in Kwiaz that there is another credible name besides the coalition candidate, not just the one proposed by the World Slovenian Congress. And we have Marjana Terpina back on the table, back to decision-making. From the previous meeting, the issue was withdrawn; perhaps it was necessary for someone to soften their hands in some way so that this candidate could now be supported. In short, you want him or I apologize, Mr. Granda wants him. We are surprised because we have some reasons to abstain or some of us will vote against. Perhaps also because it would be, let's say, a broken law that says that regional representation should also be taken into account in the programming world. It can also be because on the website of his CV we found a sign that it was a political person, but also because we believe that there were quite a few better candidates, even though, as I have already said, some in Kviaz have also proposed. But once again, it is a worrying fact that this institute is the appointment of a programming council which was in these halls and which was placed in front of the entire Slovenian public when we were dealing with whether to uphold the law or not, when it was a referendum, it had a different status than it has today, in which apparently no one wants or should be there only the one who wants the position. That was the vote, so it will be, I'm sure, today. And something else about the credibility of the candidates, which was placed first in this law when the law was passed. To be small, you can also look at applications for one and the other missing instead place; a place for those who have not endured to stay in a software world where they have proved to be powerless or where it has turned out that they cannot stay in such a body because of the protest against an impatient broadcast or expressed impatient broadcast. In short, there are fewer candidates. After all, some have based their candidacy - not on the credibility that will be able to shrink into an uplift, which is intended to undermine or enhance their reputations and achievements in the cultural, educational, scientific and other fields. But they were also ones who said that they were satisfied if they were communicative or if they were listening to their children’s wishes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u275	Thank you very much. I would also like to say that it was initially suggested that Mrs Majda Širca present her position on point 1, but it is oral and later also - I apologize for having missed the vote this letter of yours - asked her to express her opinion on point 2. And so I ask that you accept this as her explanation of the 34th point and not as that point that we are now discussing. There are no other panellists, so I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Peter Rudl as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act for the period until the expiry of the two-year mandate of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, which was established in 2006. In doing so, I inform you that on the basis of Article 17, paragraph 9, of the Law on RTV Slovenia, if the majority of all Members vote for it, that is 46 or more. We're voting. Members of Parliament and Members 66, 55 votes against 1 in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17, paragraph 6, of the RTV Slovenia Act. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Marjan Terpin as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act for the period until the end of the four-year mandate of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, which was established in 2006. In doing so, I inform you that, on the basis of paragraph 17, paragraph 17, the Head of the Law on RTV Slovenia will be adopted if the majority of all Members vote for it, that is 46 or more. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 2. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this item in the regular order and interrupt the 29th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
